mr president, i hope you will send a message of congratulations to the council on its decision to meet henceforth in public when discussing codecision legislation. this meets a long-standing demand of the european parliament, and the british presidency is to be congratulated on achieving this breakthrough. the uk presidency was quite a good one for the european parliament in other respects too. it agreed, firstly, to reopen council discussions on the comitology system in order to give parliament the same rights of scrutiny and call-back as the council. secondly, it agreed to take the data retention proposals as first-pillar legislation under codecision rather than as an intergovernmental third-pillar fix, as some other governments wanted. finally, it set an example as to how presidencies should deal with parliament, with a record number of ministerial appearances, including no fewer than four by prime minister blair himself. i hope the austrian presidency will do as well. it has not started well on the institutional front, with chancellor schüssel’s quite ill-informed attack on the court of justice.
mr president, i agree with mrs flautre’s condemnation of the scandalous fact that guantanamo bay has now been in existence for four years. several dozen legal residents of the eu are still incarcerated there, including some of my constituents: bisha al-rawi, jamil al-banna and omar deghayes. the eu needs to exert united and cohesive pressure on the united states, which it has never done before. citizens of future eu member states are also incarcerated there. i refer specifically to five bosnian citizens and one legal resident who were abducted by united states agents in january 2002, in defiance of bosnian court orders, and held incommunicado for two years. i call on the bosnian prime minister, adnan terzic, to press for their release and for the eu to encourage and support him. also in the context of the so-called war on terror, it is shameful that the british government withheld from the british parliament for six weeks a letter from louise arbour, the united nations commissioner for human rights, expressing deep concern at some of the proposals in the current anti-terrorism legislation going through the uk national parliament, despite a request that the letter be brought to the attention of the house of lords. everyone must heed what the united nations says.
mr president, there are currently 84 lisbon directives which the european parliament has adopted; 63 of them should have been implemented by 1 june 2005, but only 13 have been fully implemented by all member states. the biofuels directive should have been implemented by the end of 2004, but the following member states have yet to notify the commission of their legislation implementing that directive: estonia, greece, italy, cyprus, luxembourg, the netherlands, portugal, slovenia and slovakia. the lisbon strategy is in dire straits because of the failure to implement legislation by member states. mr president, i should like to ask you to write to the commission, on behalf of parliament, to ask what it is doing to speed up the implementation of the biofuels directive and what action it is taking against member states which fail to implement and take seriously the lisbon strategy.
mr president, president barroso’s final proposal for the 2007-2013 financial perspective contains the following, seemingly contradictory, proposals. in general point 4 it is stated that: ‘the maximum total figure for expenditure ... for 2007-2013 is eur 862.363 million’ and that ‘all figures are expressed using constant 2004 prices’, but that ‘there will be automatic ... adjustments for inflation’. the british rebate under point 78 is qualified as follows: ‘during the period 2007-2013 the additional contribution from the uk shall not be higher than eur 10.5 billion’. these two points seem to be in conflict and raise the question of whether the eur 10.5 billion is subject to an automatic annual technical adjustment for inflation. if so, there will be a substantial extra cost. british parliament votes are expressed in current sterling values and are not subject to automatic adjustments for inflation. exactly how much is the eu expecting the british taxpayer to pay, and is this legal?
mr president, i should like to draw attention to the deplorable situation of migrant workers in the union and the legal limbo they often find themselves in. i am not talking about illegal or economic immigrants, but legal migrant workers from member states of the eu, new and old, who in my own region are predominantly portuguese and polish. i want to illustrate the situation by referring to my own country, but the situation is the same across the european union. we in the united kingdom have a workers’ registration scheme whereby individuals can register upon payment of gbp 70 (eur 100), so that after 12 months they are entitled to draw social benefits. to do that, however, they need a national insurance number. we have a catch-22 situation here: to get a number you need to make an appointment, but the phones go unanswered; so, no appointment, no national insurance number, no signing up for the workers’ registration scheme, no legal basis for work, no protection and no benefits.
mr president, i wish to express my disappointment at the statement made by commissioner frattini, which was more a repetition than a statement. commissioner, we know you are concerned and we know the commission is concerned, but the commission should be judged on what it does. infringement proceedings must be brought against any member state that fails to transpose or implement the appropriate directives already in force in a number of member states. i agree that we must campaign and educate, but that in itself is not enough. a proposal for a horizontal directive directly related to the race and ethnicity directive promised by president borroso must be brought before this house. i am saddened by some of the contributions this afternoon. this is about equality, not about promoting homosexuality. it is about giving homosexuals the equal rights and equality that others take so much for granted. i am gay. i am a homosexual, born to an ordinary man and woman. because of that some people will wish to take away my right to talk about my sexuality, to celebrate my 22-year relationship and to be part of a wider community. some would vilify me, take away my democratic rights and use hate-speak against me. i could decide to go on a gay pride march, but that gay pride march could be banned. why? because society is preoccupied with what it perceives as my sex life. a judgement has been made on it. where is the morality in that? where is the morality in preaching and promoting discrimination and hatred, sometimes behind the shield and the excuse of religion or belief? i say to commission frattini and the entire commission, as well as to this house, that if we do nothing when we see people beaten to death, vilified and discriminated against then we are condoning and becoming complicit in those beatings, in the hate-speak, the defamation and the ill-treatment. even in the united kingdom, where enormous advances have been made, a young man was kicked to death just before christmas for no other reason than he was homosexual. if this house does nothing then it is party to every single blow that was rained upon that individual and other men like him and on gay women across the european union. that i should even have to make such a statement here in parliament makes this a day of great sadness. (applause)
mr president, i have to acknowledge that, as mr cashman has said, even in my own constituency of london we continue to see prejudice and homophobic crime. just recently a gay man was killed purely out of murderous prejudice. a few years ago we had a hate-crazed bomber who specifically intended to kill gay customers of a bar. of course he killed others too. but we are largely looking at private hate and prejudice. what is so shocking about developments in some member states is the crude official intolerance: the banning of pride demonstrations, inflammatory language even by prime ministers, police failure to protect marches, and so on. we need european legislation to outlaw hate crime on grounds not only of race – which we have still not achieved – but also of sexual orientation. and we need to equalise the treatment of race, gender and sexual orientation in generalising the ban on discrimination not only in the workplace, but also in the receipt of services and in the supply of goods. the patchwork that we have at the moment is not good enough. i look also to commissioner frattini to lead the effort to greatly improve the generalised protection of both women and minorities.
mr president, the notion of eu citizenship is really a synthetic concoction; it is not a natural product. citizenship belongs to nation states. it is not something to be purloined by the eu in its desperate scramble for internal and external credibility, made more desperate by the humiliating rejection of the unwanted constitution. what is being promoted here is a phoney and empty contrivance, designed to bring statehood to europe. the proposal reaches its most ludicrous and unacceptable point when it embraces the progressive financing of the eu by direct taxation. if the proponents of eu citizenship think they will make the eu more loved and more wanted by promoting direct brussels taxation, then i have to say that, happily, they are more out of touch with the citizens than i ever thought they were. foolish reports like this do more to assist euroscepticism than anything else i can think of. therefore, on that score, i suppose i should say: let us have more of them!
mr president, this report promotes the stupidity and falsity that is eu citizenship and proceeds to come up with suggestions as to how this ridiculous and failing notion can be promoted. the eu institutions show, with unwavering consistency, how totally out of touch they are with the sentiments and views of the public. the maastricht treaty may have created citizenship in principle, but it is a classic example of theory being impossible to put into practice. for example, eu citizenship is impossible to renounce. i do not want it. i was not even asked before it was imposed upon me. we now have clear proof of the desperation entering the thought processes of the federalists in this parliament. it is their belief that ‘a direct link between some aspect of the tax system and the financing of the european union’ would make eu citizenship more balanced. as any student of politics knows, linking something to a tax is the sure-fire way of condemning it to the dustbin of history. i have said many times before that if the eu is the answer then the question must have been a stupid one. this report proves that beyond doubt.
madam president, this evening i have heard the words ‘trafficking’, ‘slavery’, ‘violence’, ‘abuse’, ‘organised crime’, ‘paedophilia’, ‘rape’ - all of them scourges of modern society, as we all agree. however, i do not know of any national governments that have not already made these illegal. i cannot for the life of me see the point in reinventing the wheel when all this is already illegal across the european union. what we need to do is get on with our business and start enforcing the laws that we already have. i am also surprised that you are surprised that this is the sort of thing that happens when you tear down all the border controls. it is difficult to believe that it has actually taken anybody by surprise at all. it was surely inevitable. as to the criminalisation of the client, which somebody suggested earlier, in the united kingdom homosexuality was made legal in order to do away with what was then known as a ‘blackmailer’s charter’. if you start to criminalise the client in these matters, you will find that the law of unintended consequence comes into play, something at which i am afraid this parliament is all too adept.
madam president, (the speaker spoke irish)i wholeheartedly welcome mrs prets’ report on combating the trafficking of slaves and those who are vulnerable to sexual exploitation. it is a flagrant denial of the fundamental rights of a human being and must be addressed effectively. i welcome the commissioner’s comment that practical support must be provided for those who are victims of trafficking. allowing those who come forward to remain in the country would be one way of helping them to get out of the situation they find themselves in. i would caution against approaching this problem, as we heard from one person here tonight, with a ‘fortress europe’ mentality and using this as an excuse to reinforce borders. i welcome the report’s emphasis on setting defined targets to tackle trafficking in the coming years with a view to its total eradication.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the recalibration of the hong kong talks forced us all not to hope for historic breakthroughs. it certainly delivered on this. as commissioner mandelson pointed out, the round was not a failure, but it was hardly a success either. a lack of democracy pervaded the talks, as they took place behind the closed doors of ‘green rooms’, and the opportunity to lift millions out of poverty simply did not materialise. in saying that, i do not wish to take anything away from the very close working relationship that the european parliament had with the commission throughout. despite the world’s poorest countries joining hands to make the doha round a development reality, they were put in the impossible position either of accepting a text which left much to be desired, or of being on the receiving end of the finger-pointing blame game which plagued progress. in the space of a few hours on the penultimate day of talks, there was a sudden shift on two problems on which there had seemed to be permanent stalemate. the eu had a budget plan until 2013 and the wto concluded the hong kong declaration. they were linked, of course, and everyone here knows how difficult it was for some to give up 3.5% of the eu’s overall agricultural support. however, one giant leap for the eu does not make one small step for the wto. whilst exalting the successful moves on agriculture we must not overlook the fact that much will be cancelled out by an undermining of the right of developing countries to protect their basic services and emerging industries. the elimination of trade-distorting agricultural export subsidies in 2013 is three years later than hoped for, and amounts to a symbolic gesture to the world’s poorest farmers. until the dumping of all subsidised crops and products onto their markets is ended, they will continue to face an uphill struggle to lift themselves out of crippling poverty. last week gordon brown admitted that the uk had failed to maximise on its twin presidencies of the eu and g8 to complete its ambitious development agenda. he proposed a five point plan to reverse that failure and a push by world leaders to restart and complete the trade talks. and push we must. we can do good. on cotton, we agreed to eliminate all forms of export subsidies in 2006. we ensured food aid could no longer be used as a system to mask continuing export subsidies, and the eu’s ‘everything but arms’ initiative was supported by all. commissioner mandelson, you said that we were to create a stage. we should now use that stage as a springboard. now is the time to be ambitious again. let the eu lead and hope others follow.
mr president, before i thank commissioner mandelson and he falls off his chair at the thought of my thanking him, i should like to make a criticism of the way that parliament was involved there. we had 26 meps, 10 support staff and a press officer. at no time did i meet the press officer; at no time did the press officer run anything for the ppe-de group – not that he was there to support our group; he was there for the whole of parliament. as the person who co-chaired the interparliamentary conference and got the agreement on that co-chairing, i was surprised that we had no press officer. robert portman asked why the european parliament was there and what the members were doing. mrs kinnock from the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly was there; there were members from the development committee and the agriculture and rural development committee, including me. i hope you will take that message back. commissioner, i would first like to thank your staff: mrs nikolay was outstanding, as was mr trojan. you also were outstanding in the way you kept us informed and kept us up to date with the negotiations. you have asked specifically today for thoughts to take forward, so perhaps i can give you a couple of things to think about. i think you did a wonderful job, but could you explain why the eu is continually being blamed – particularly by the united states – for holding up the talks? it seems to me that there are other arguments that should be put forward and yet we are not getting the message across. i have said that in the past and hope you can explain it. in the interparliamentary conference, we succeeded in getting geographical indications forward. you mentioned that and yet, as far as i know, it was never involved in the final discussions. it is very important to europe and many other countries. i was disappointed by the polarised nature of the debate in hong kong. there were few attempts to bring those differing viewpoints together. as one of my colleagues said, there was a lot of finger-pointing and blaming of other people, which was counterproductive. is the big ministerial ‘jamboree’ the best way to continue the negotiations? should we not look at a less circus-like approach? thank you for all the work you did, commissioner, and may it continue.
mr president, i thank the commissioner. i should like to begin with a few positives. first of all – and i believe that no one has mentioned this – the fact that the final text tackles the us abuse of food aid and that the ‘safe box’ has been created is very important. secondly, it is important that the text reins in the worst excesses of the ‘blue box’. the final text also contains quite hopeful language on the special products and on the special safeguard mechanisms. those are positives. aid for trade is also welcome, although i have reservations about the world bank and the imf being in charge of it, bearing in mind the emphasis on conditionalities for which they are so well known. like my colleague mr van den berg, i am very keen to know where the eur 1 billion promised by president barroso at gleneagles is going to come from. there are huge gaps in the budgetary promises that have been made. when i chaired a press conference of the acp group in hong kong i got a real sense of their feeling of frustration and betrayal. on sugar, bananas and cotton the wto has done the acp no favours. mr mandelson, these countries are our natural allies, but unless we really prove that we have in place a doha development mandate, and that we are honouring that mandate, then i believe that in the months ahead we will not be able to rely on our acp colleagues. also, it is absolutely critical that we have new long-term substantial funding for the sugar protocol countries. realistically, can we, in the short time available, make progress on ending dumping, on confirmation of the developing countries’ rights to protect their farms, their infant industries and services? will we put in place fair and equitable access for developing countries’ exports? those are essential. it is a formidable list. can you do it by 30 april, commissioner?
mr president, hong kong achieved its reduced ambition of outlining a roadmap, and what that shows is that the road ahead is rocky and will require most of its leading drivers to make some sharp twists and turns. what we have is a development package which is not generous enough, a date for ending export subsidies which is not soon enough, proposals on gats which are not flexible enough, and a nama formula which is not fair enough, as well as an acknowledgement of the need for special and differential treatment which is not yet clear enough. so we made progress in hong kong, but a lot remains to be done and the commissioner will be well aware of the expression: ‘a lot done, a lot to be done’. i believe that most of the blame for what still needs to be done does not lie with the european union; it lies with our leading partners. i would like to add my thanks to the commissioner and his staff, and to the council under the british presidency, which made great efforts to push many of these items along.
mr president, i note that in his opening remarks, replying to mr barón crespo’s oral question, the commissioner asked for parliament’s suggestions about future activity and future developments. my understanding is – and this is an issue which has not so far been raised in this debate – that both ukraine and russia are candidate members of the wto. does the commissioner have in mind a timetable whereby accession of these two very important economies might be envisaged, and what might be some of the steps necessary before membership were to be achieved? i have in mind one area which i understand is not subject to wto discussions: energy. parliament will be debating that later this week. but equally, agricultural products from a member state, poland, were blocked by russia for reasons which many would find it difficult to understand. presumably, commissioner, you would be very supportive of the notion that common rules should be observed and respected by all members, whether or not their form and understanding of democracy and respect for international commercial law happened to coincide identically with our own. this is an important point. we have dwelt, so far, on development relations between what used to be described as the first and third worlds. the second world, as i understand it, was the then-communist dictatorship bloc. how do you see our relations improving in that direction?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have served in national parliaments where debates were timetabled to a second and the inability of this parliament to get its act together means i have to apologise to the commissioner because i will have to leave before hearing his concluding remarks. the independent today reported scientist james lovelock saying that, frankly, it is too late already. the multiplier effect is going to mean that the pace of climate change is going to accelerate and there is little we can do. when you read the european environment agency reports that glaciers in switzerland retreated by 10% in one year alone, in 2003, you think that maybe he has a point, that we are just not realising what is happening. here we are in this fantastic palace of energy use, debating what might be the end of civilisation. montreal was a success, but only in relative terms. i am very conscious of the heavy burden you bear, commissioner. i cannot think of a single person on this planet who has more direct responsibility for coming up with solutions to try and take the world forward, to try and take the economic block and therefore the world with it. you are hemmed in by ridiculous policies – we are still subsidising coal production – and economic priorities come to the fore, as they must, but sometimes to the detriment of the attempts we are all making to try and deal with these problems. so, i urge you, be bold and be ambitious. let us not pretend that the emissions trading scheme is somehow going to curb aviation emissions to a great extent. we need more measures; we need aviation fuel tax. if we are to deal with car manufacturers, we have got to set mandatory limits on co2 limits; we have to have smaller cars. it is ridiculous: we are losing the world for the sake of people wanting to drive around in giants. i urge you, commissioner, take the lead. governments will always complain and criticise you, but they need you. they will scale back your ambitions, but unless you aim high, you are bound to achieve low.
the next item is the report by georg jarzembowski, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on market access to port services (com(2004) 0654 – c6 0147/2004 – 2004/0240(cod)) (a6-0410/2005).
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his work, which, of course, was not appreciated by the committee on transport and tourism. i too regret the violence that we saw yesterday, but we must understand the frustration that the dockers are feeling at the moment. this is a most ill-informed proposal from the commission. it is an absolute insult to parliament that it was brought back in virtually the same form within 18 months of its initial rejection. it is a real insult to the only directly-elected democratic institution at european level. the commission should have thought very carefully after that initial rejection. (applause) as was the case with the services directive, there is some really flawed thinking at the centre of this directive. the idea of self-handling is ludicrous. it is a recipe for disaster and a health and safety nightmare. what we need in the loading and unloading of cargo is a dedicated, trained, experienced set of people, not an onboard workforce which would be exposed to the dangers of hurriedly loading and unloading cargo. pilotage was included in this proposal. i represent teesport in the north-east of england, which is one of the busiest ports in europe and serves a massive chemical industrial complex. highly volatile cargoes enter and leave that port every day. the notion that you can tender for piloting services for ships of that description in order to secure the lowest price is, again, ludicrous. it would put in danger not only the workers involved but also the entire population of my region. the commission should have done the sensible thing: it should have revised this proposal completely before it brought it forward. i hope that it will readily withdraw it when we reject it tomorrow, as i am sure we will. (applause)
mr president, this rehashed directive will be decided during the presidency of austria, which has no ports at all! it follows a chaotic vote in the committee on transport and tourism when there was real doubt about the correct result. britain, may i remind you, is an island with over 100 commercial ports and the biggest, southampton, is in my constituency. it adds over gbp 2 billion to the british economy every year and the local economy enjoys another gbp 200 million from the cruise industry alone. these are big numbers. as a global trading nation, the united kingdom handles more international freight than any other eu country and port management there is driven by free enterprise and market forces. there is no public ownership, no state subsidy, so expansion in the development of facilities and services in british ports depends on retaining the confidence of private investors and high standards of service and employment. this directive will undermine confidence in those standards because it interferes in freely negotiated commercial contracts. it imposes controls that are neither necessary nor desirable. it seeks to solve problems in state-run ports that simply do not exist in britain. the port authorities know, suppliers of services and facilities know, customers know: the only people who do not appear to know are those in the commission. even ship pilots’ proper concerns over safety have met with indifference. do we really want novices piloting the biggest container ships in the world up narrow tidal waterways and trying to berth them safely? whenever the eu starts talking about creating a level playing field it reveals a fundamental ignorance of enterprise. british ports use their initiative and investors’ money to create competitive advantage: the very opposite of a level playing field. if passed, this directive will cost without yielding benefit and will slow down growth and confidence. the house should throw it out. (applause)
mr president, the previous port services directive was rejected by the last parliament in the 2003 plenary and, as nothing has changed, why should the commission expect a different answer this time? neither management nor staff have shown any encouragement for this legislation. yesterday, a parliament spokesman said that the protests had caused considerable damage, but what will be the damage in british ports if this directive is applied? new investment of over eur 400 million by the management of my local ports of felixstowe and harwich may be jeopardised if they have to open the services to other companies. our british system has worked extremely well for decades, so why should british ports be disrupted when, clearly, this form of legislation is aimed at certain ports on the continent? it is said that there is a need for greater competition in this sector to promote growth and job creation, but if this directive is applied, at what expense? dockers could lose their jobs, the security systems could break down and the safety issue would be jeopardised. i voted to reject the similar bill two years ago and, as a british member, i am going to do the same again this week. (applause)
mr president, along with most colleagues in this house, i have very serious concerns about the proposals before us. however, not only do i dislike the content of the proposals, which i will come back to shortly, but i also find it unacceptable that the commission seems unable to take no for an answer. two years ago, along with many colleagues, i found myself sitting in this very chamber, having this very same debate, where a very similar proposal was rejected. commissioner barrot, why do i find myself in the same position again today? at a time when we hear that the commission is about to repeal or will not proceed with over-regulatory legislation, we are faced with the proposals we are now debating. for the united kingdom, the content of the proposal has been met with disbelief by the industry. there is not one port that welcomes the proposals. should they be adopted, businesses which have worked hard to become the best performing and most competitive in europe would be compromised and threatened. within the proposals, authorisation periods and tendering are thought to be market-orientated measures that will increase services and competition. they do nothing of the sort. services will be reduced as potential competitors cherry-pick only the profitable areas of business, meaning less development in the sector. financial institutions will also be less forthcoming with capital investment as returns will be minimal and not guaranteed, leading to exactly the opposite of what is intended. i am all for the free market and can support any proposal that is market-orientated. however, that is not the case with this proposal. if the eu wants to see a market-orientated approach, i suggest that it follows what we already have in the uk: a tried and tested system. i call on this house to reject the proposal in its entirety and send a simple message to the commission: ‘no’ means ‘no’ in whatever language one speaks, except ‘euro-ese’ where it appears to mean exactly the opposite. (applause)
mr president, having sat through this debate, i have a message for the dockers gathered in strasbourg. i say to them that i have heard member of parliament after member of parliament line up and put forward arguments which are in the interests of the people of europe, and member of parliament after member of parliament expressing sympathies with the underlying arguments that they are presenting. rather than standing and attacking this house, they should take a step back, listen to what is being said in this debate and give their support to this house. that is my appeal to them. tomorrow, this house will be considering a proposal that it effectively rejected in november 2003. it is a project that the commissioner has tried to distance himself from entirely and a process that is democratically deficient, owing to a failure to consider, consult or compromise with those at its heart. it is clear that this proposal was designed with continental ports in mind, with the desire to liberalise the port services market, which is, for the most part, still nationalised. that is a welcome and necessary step, but it needs to be done in the right way. however, the united kingdom ports industry has set itself apart from its continental counterparts. our ports are privately owned. they receive no financial assistance from the government and capital for new investment is raised within the market. owing to the large number of thriving ports, the industry already enjoys the healthy competition that this proposal seeks to achieve. the move to impose such a landlord model on united kingdom ports will be enormously damaging. the threat of a trend towards a non-permanent workforce will lead to a lack of job security, lower skills levels, lower wages, a deterioration in working conditions, and will have a detrimental impact on the surrounding communities. my constituency, in the north-west of england, has a long and proud history in the maritime industry, with ports such as liverpool, manchester and heysham numbering among some of the largest on the united kingdom coastline. at its heart is liverpool, the home of the united kingdom’s first commercial dry dock. under this directive, liverpool’s communities, which are already among the most deprived in europe, will witness hard-grafting dockers being put out of work. all this with a compensation package on the table insufficient to comply with united kingdom law, let alone the european convention on human rights. it is neither desirable nor practical for this house to try to amend this proposal, which is fundamentally flawed. it is for all these reasons that we must vote this proposal down.
mr president, when the european parliament threw out the proposed port services directive two years ago no one believed that the commission would try to bring it back. yet it did not consult, it would not listen and it decided to ignore this democratic parliament. let us be very clear about the damage that this law, if adopted, would inflict on ports, including the east coast ports which i represent in this parliament. replacing highly skilled, trained staff with ships’ crew able to load and unload is a recipe for accidents, injury and, possibly, deaths. compare that with the port of tilbury, which achieved a 50% reduction in accidents in 2005, or great yarmouth, which has seen no reportable accidents for two years. i want to say to mr jarzembowski that this law would be devastating for jobs. port owners tell me that over 600 new jobs at felixstowe and over 750 new jobs at harwich would all be threatened. not one of 650 jobs at the port of tilbury would be safe. that is what the port owners say themselves and these port owners would see their incentive for vital new investments destroyed. already two new investment projects at tilbury have been put on hold because of the uncertainty created by this directive. port expansion at bathside bay, so recently approved at harwich, and the positive decision we very much hope for this week for the felixstowe south expansion, are both in jeopardy. i would say to the uk independence party, that represents gbp 1 billion of expenditure, if you check your figures; and we would not even have to be here now but for the fact that your members voted for this legislation in the committee on transport and tourism. on investment again, in great yarmouth a campaign for more than a decade to build an outer harbour would see this put in competition with the existing inner harbour, substituting existing jobs rather than expanding jobs and services in an area recognised as a priority to tackle unemployment in the whole of the european union. make no mistake, it is skilled dock workers who would suffer most – people like steven drew from yarmouth, sitting in the public gallery listening to this debate, who, together with his father frank before him, have given 55 years’ combined service to the ports industry. competition is needed between ports, not within them. the european union should now do what it should have done before: consult ports, trade unions and shipping lines from scratch, starting with a blank sheet of paper, and on this proposal it should admit defeat. this european parliament, having sought to reject this proposal once and for all, should now vote ‘no’ for a second time and never again.
mr president, i would be grateful if you could pass on to president borrell our thanks for his very kind words yesterday in memory of our colleague, phillip whitehead. i know i speak not only for the whole of my delegation but also for the whole european parliament, because phillip’s fair-minded and judicious approach to politics won him friends throughout this chamber. my delegation has placed at the entrance to the chamber a book of condolence, in which we hope colleagues throughout parliament will feel free to put their memories of phillip. we will be presenting this book of condolence to his family at his memorial service, which will take place at derby cathedral on 29 january. my office will provide details to any members who wish to attend. (applause)
in writing. as the rapporteur in the last parliament on the issue of relations with the republic of korea in the field of science and technology, i recognise the importance for europe of relations with this growing economic power in asia. i therefore welcome this report and i support it extending as it does our framework trade and cooperation agreement to the new member states of the union. we now have the mechanism in place for a growing partnership between the eu and the republic of korea. the important thing now is to use it.
in writing. it is clear, and i hope uncontroversial, that the maldives should be included in the list of countries eligible for aid in the aftermath of the tsunami disaster of 2004. i was glad to support this move and hope that we can move as quickly as possible to provide useful practical aid to the country.
in writing. my party strongly supports measures which assist the upward harmonisation of human and civil rights for all citizens of member states. i strongly endorse those elements of the catania report which sought to raise the issue of migrant workers' rights, particularly their civil and political rights to citizenship and electoral participation. sinn féin strongly believes that migrant workers should have full access to civil and human rights and that member states should have a fair and equality-focused process of naturalisation for those migrant workers who choose to avail themselves of such mechanisms. i abstained in the final vote on giusto catania's report on the commission's fourth report on citizenship of the union (a6-0411/2005) on the basis that sinn féin policy regards issues of citizenship, elections and political participation as matters whose primary location should be within the governing institutions of the member state.
in writing. i welcome the report regarding citizenship of the eu with relation to third country nationals. the report's key issue is that eu citizens should be able to vote in national elections in member states other than their own, provided they are resident there. i regret that the report was rejected as it was a worthy report. however, i abstained on the amendments to paragraphs 11, parts one and 2, paragraph 12, parts 1 and 2 and paragraphs 13, 21 and 28 as i felt that, at this stage, they went too far.
in writing. this report deals with citizenship, a very controversial subject, and i would generally be of the view that such matters should be purely matters for member states, and that any eu rights flow from member state citizenship. however, this report, which is non-binding, attempts to explore ways in which each member state can be encouraged to raise standards of equity and fairness, as there are instances of eu countries treating minorities poorly. the eventual rejection of this report does i think reflect a mature decision on the part of the parliament, much as i still believe that these issues need to be examined and will return to the house before long.
in writing. the uk independence party voted against the prets report on the trafficking of women and children due to the nature of articles contained within the report. we are strongly against the trafficking of all people and slavery, but we do not feel that it is the competence of the eu to interfere in domestic issues, and in particular we do not feel that the eu should be creating a policy regarding prostitution. all the items mentioned in the report have already been covered by uk legislation, and it is these laws which should be utilised fully rather than to create yet more eu legislation, which would have resulted in negative consequences.
in writing. the uk independence party voted against the prets report on the trafficking of women and children due to the nature of articles contained within the report. we are strongly against the trafficking of all people and slavery, but we do not feel that it is the competence of the eu to interfere in domestic issues, and in particular we do not feel that the eu should be creating a policy regarding prostitution. all the items mentioned in the report have already been covered by uk legislation, and it is these laws which should be utilised fully rather than to create yet more eu legislation, which would have resulted in negative consequences.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues applaud the recognition in this resolution that tackling trafficking is a key component of the fight against organised crime. consequently, any measures taken in this regard should be consistent with the overall strategy against organised crime. therefore, this should not be used as a pretext for pursuing the objective of full communitarisation in this area. rather, we support effective national policies and strong inter-governmental co-operation to stamp out this evil trade.
in writing. i welcome the report emphasising the importance of introducing and promoting gender mainstreaming and child-sensitive approaches in all eu policies. trafficking of human beings for sexual exploitation is a violation of human rights and between 600 000 and 800 000 men, women and children are trafficked across international borders each year. approximately 80% of those cases are women and girls and 50% are minors. i agree that data on trafficking is lacking and that there is a need for a more harmonised approach between member states on how data should be collated and, equally, that data on children should be kept separate from the data on men and women. it is essential that prevention strategies address both victims and traffickers. the most vulnerable groups should be focused on, first by improving education and employment opportunities, fighting the problem of the feminisation of poverty, discrimination and inequality. furthermore, more campaigns should be introduced, with a common eu logo and international help lines, and more information on legal rights to health services for victims in other countries must be provided. finally, i agree that law enforcement must prosecute and strictly punish traffickers and fight corruption.
in writing. the prets report on combating the trafficking of women and children is an important contribution to the tackling of one of the most distressing and accelerating problems facing vulnerable women and children who face modern slavery, particularly in the sex industry in europe. the problem must be tackled with maximum consideration for the victims of trafficking so that they do not suffer a 'double punishment' in the justice systems of eu countries.
in writing. nobody can deny that organised trafficking of women and children is a pressing issue facing the countries of the eu, and coordinated action across the eu is necessary to fight it. this report demonstrates how cooperation will lead to better results than the individual member states acting alone, and i am pleased to support it. while i have reservations about some of the sentiments contained in the report, i am of the view that the eu itself must take action to combat this problem, in conjunction with the member states themselves.
in writing. the uk independence party voted against the prets report on the trafficking of women and children due to the nature of articles contained within the report. we are strongly against the trafficking of all people and slavery, but we do not feel that it is the competence of the eu to interfere in domestic issues, and in particular we do not feel that the eu should be creating a policy regarding prostitution. all the items mentioned in the report have already been covered by uk legislation, and it is these laws which should be utilised fully rather than creating yet more eu legislation, which would have resulted in negative consequences.
mr president, i would like to congratulate commissioner piebalgs for his role in convening the gas coordination group and thereby making a major contribution towards resolving the dispute between naftagas and gazprom earlier this month. this situation between russia and ukraine has served as a wake-up call to those who may not have been aware how dependent the eu member states are on imported fuels in general and on natural gas from russia in particular. however, it is important that we retain a sense of proportion about this matter. the trade in gas between russia and eu member states remains commercially viable just as long as each has something the other wants. the import dependence of the eu member states and the related increasing dependence on natural gas is hardly a secret. we in the committee on industry, research and energy have long been aware of this situation and have been debating the need for measures to address this dependence. ten years ago, i submitted a report to parliament on prospects for gas supply in europe and was criticised by the industry for suggesting that we could become over-dependent on gas if it provided over 25% of our energy requirements. let me remind the house of the wide range of measures that are already in hand which address our security of supply needs: both legislative measures, such as the tens directive, and actions by the industry in building pipelines, storage and lng facilities. we must take note of russia as it flexes its muscles internationally, but i suggest that a measured, practical approach to maintaining diversity of supply and encouraging appropriate investments to that end must be our response as a long-term solution. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development. – madam president, i thank the commissioner and mr fruteau for dealing so well with what is an extremely contentious and difficult issue. clearly the reform of the sugar sector is essential, but i cannot agree that the collateral damage of what is an internal european union reform should be felt by some of the small, vulnerable economies with whom we have very special relationships and partnerships. throughout the discussions the acp countries have made the case for a gradual price cut, an end to dumping and for additional long-term funding to help them deal with what is a drastic reform. by and large, their pleas have been rejected. it is the view of the acp countries, as mr fruteau has intimated, that they have been abandoned and betrayed by what is on the table now. they have no guarantee of where the money is to come from in the long term to help them restructure and to diversify both within and outside of sugar. in the caribbean alone the losses as a result of the cuts are expected to be in the region of eur 125 million. the acp sugar protocol countries supplied tropical sugar when europe needed it. now they are asking that we understand the inevitable dependence they have on that commodity, one upon which they depend for foreign exchange earnings which have brought stability to them and have ensured that they maintain democracies. compensation amounting to eur 7.5 billion is on the table for european farmers. so far the acp has eur 40 million, which is to be divided between 18 countries, and it is not even clear how it is going to be divided. in addition, commissioner mandelson warned last night in the wto debate that the figure of eur 190 million, which the commission has proposed, is now threatened by a 20% cut agreed in the eu’s budget negotiations. commissioner, where exactly is that money going to come from? is it yet again the intention of the commission to raid the development budget to cover the cost of these accompanying measures for the acp? i hope that the commissioner for development, mr michel, will stand firm and that, in the spirit of what you said about your interest in developing countries, you will give your support for new and additional money to cover the accompanying measures. another concern relates to the effects of the regulation on ldcs. i refer you to the amendments that i have submitted on that issue. almost all of the world’s least developed countries are members of the acp group. therefore they have an enormous interest in the appalling suggestion that we should pull back on our commitments to everything but arms. from 2009 all least developed countries should benefit from the same guaranteed price as that provided for in the acp sugar protocol. there should be no delay in the fulfilment of europe’s commitments to provide duty-free, quota-free access on a stable and long-term basis to ldcs. the safeguard clause that was agreed by the council calls for an upper limit of a 25% increase per year on ldc imports. that makes an absolute mockery of eba. ldcs are set to lose eur 783 million of potential earnings in the first year alone. i hope that this parliament will not accept a situation which jeopardises a european initiative of which we have been justifiably proud. we must not vote for any delay on the implementation or indeed for a safeguard clause, which would limit the promise offered by eba. in line with the objective of having coherence between agriculture and development priorities, i would recommend support for amendments on the elimination of export subsidies and the abolition of c sugar exports. if we fail to act we will be giving absolutely the wrong signal to millions of the world’s poorest people, at a time when europe is meant to be focusing on making poverty history.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – madam president, i should like to say to the commissioner that when she first presented her proposals to the commission on agriculture and rural development, i applauded. i realise that i was the only person who applauded in that committee, which put me at odds with many of my colleagues. i applauded because i have wanted reform in this sector ever since i read the 1991 report by the court of auditors. i have sought changes in the regime from a budget control point of view, from a budget point of view, from a development point of view, from a wto point of view and from a consumer point of view, which puts me at odds with mr fruteau, for whom i have the greatest respect and whom i genuinely admire. but quite frankly, we should not accept the call for ‘the introduction of modifications’. what we need is a radical overhaul, as the commissioner proposed. we should not vote for lesser price cuts and increased compensation and less quota cuts than those proposed by the commission. we should not vote for structural or social cohesion policy instruments to be used to cushion sugar farmers. all acp producers were being offered the same. large amounts of cap funds are already available to eu farmers. let us not forget that sugar producers, processors and refiners are not the poorest people on this planet. i agree that we need to monitor imports from the less-developed countries in order to prevent fraud and guard against triangular trade, but quite honestly, we are talking about tiny amounts. eu sugar production of 17 million tonnes will not be distorted; there will not be a market imbalance because of ldc imports. amendment 61, on the everything but arms agreement, should be opposed. what we are trying to do to the least developed countries is unacceptable. we should follow the line that mrs kinnock has given, making sure that, whatever we do with these reforms, the developing world is not jeopardised.
madam president, like the last speaker, i too wonder why we are considering these proposals. surely the council made a decision on 22 november and it is now a fait accompli. however, if parliament is determined to have its say, we should remember that the sugar regime has existed virtually unchanged for almost 40 years, and yet here we are trying to introduce wholesale change almost overnight. it is a sick system which has badly needed reform for many years. however, the draconian solutions being proposed – that is, the medicine for the sickness – are likely to kill the patient in the process: it is estimated that the new regime will cause the loss of 100 000 jobs in europe and put an end to sugar farming in countries such as greece and ireland. it is also likely to do incomparable damage to the economies of many european former colonies in africa and the caribbean, which were major beneficiaries of the old regime. i am also painfully aware that my own constituency in the east of england contains a major part of the uk’s sugar farming. i recommend that a proper study of the effects of the new regime should be made without delay. never let it be forgotten that our actions affect human beings out there in the real world, beyond our cloistered environment. it is a shameful indictment of this centralised bureaucratic form of government that it has taken so long to act, even then only under pressure from the wto, and that so many people will suffer as a result.
i wish to ask a supplementary question. i want to thank the commissioner for his very careful reply and, although i am taking italian lessons, i appreciate the fact that he gave it in his very good english. it is a complicated reply, and therefore difficult to take on board. however, i noted that he referred to the council position of january 2005 covering stolen passports. that is clearly in order. however, i wonder whether he could assure me that the other databases i mentioned – on works of art, wanted criminals and fingerprints – are also satisfactorily covered by the council position?
member of the commission. as i said in my reply, this consultancy study will form only part of the commission’s thinking. the purpose of this particular consultant’s report is to inform the commission on its thinking and it does not prejudge the commission’s final decision on these matters. the honourable member may rest assured that this forms only part of our overall deliberative process and does not in any way commit the commission to making a proposal one way or the other.
member of the commission. as the honourable member may know, the commission must come forward with a report, before the end of 2006, on the direction which it considers the liberalisation of the postal market should take. all the reports and consultations effected form part of our deliberative process in arriving at such a decision. as mrs mcguinness will be aware, the liberalisation of the postal market has been in progress for some time, and it is as part of that process that the commission must bring forward its report on the direction to be taken. the question of universal services is a key part of its deliberative process. it is, of course, a matter for member states to organise their arrangements regarding rural post offices as they see fit and in line with their own requirements. our specific role as the commission is to consider that of the opening-up of the postal market.
will the commissioner pledge that he will not seek to allow a system to be put in place that will bestow a second-class service on rural communities? what specific steps does he have in mind to safeguard against private entrepreneurs creaming off the easy and the profitable aspects of the postal services, whilst leaving rural residents as the poor relations? with regard to the recently introduced deregulation in the united kingdom, does the commissioner have any plans to monitor that, or any comments to make upon it?
i believe it is important to have a single european market in the defence production and procurement sector, which is vital for the future of the european union. i believe that the commission – in the past at least – has given an unreasonably generous and wide interpretation of article 296. could you say whether you would narrow that interpretation in future? most importantly, if you do not have it, will you do an estimate at commission level of the costs of not having a single market in the defence sector, in terms of the costs of purchases from overseas that might have been purchased in-house and the costs of having a fragmented and divided defence market in europe with batch production rather than mass production?
i thank the commissioner for his detailed response. i have one issue that i wish to raise, following on from today's mine attack which resulted in the deaths of two civilians and the injury of 12 soldiers. that is the latest in a month of bloodshed. given that both sides have agreed, in principle, to review the implementation of the ceasefire agreement, is the eu, as co-chair of the peace process, planning on taking this opportunity to push for a human rights declaration signed by both the government and the ltte in order to put the protection of fundamental human rights at the heart of the peace process?
mr president, i welcome mr fruteau's reports and i would also pay tribute to the way he has gone about his work. it would be fair to say that we do not have identical views on the reform of the sugar regime, but i would like to think that we are now much closer at the end of the process than we were at the beginning. like the rapporteur and previous speakers, i think it is a pity that the council chose to reach a political agreement in advance of the debate in this parliament. i think it shows a lack of respect for this house. nevertheless, i welcome the fact that the council has recognised and supported the need to end the artificial support for the sugar sector and to make the european sugar regime more competitive in the world market, and i believe that the 36% reduction will make us wto-compatible. it is not as radical as the 39% that the commission proposes, but i think it brings us into line with wto rules. the four-year implementation that the council also recommends gives our producers a chance to adjust to the new realities. where i would like to see more action is in two specific areas. firstly, in relation to c sugar. we should have a clear commitment to abolish c sugar, which clearly distorts world trade and could still be a subject of dispute at the wto level. so i shall support amendment 80 on thursday, as i hope will the house. i warmly welcome the eur 7 billion compensation that has been given to european producers and i recognise that they need that support. however, like other speakers in this debate, i regret that we are not being as generous to acp producers. the 18 acp producers currently have stable earnings of around eur 250 million a year from the sugar regime. the commission proposal was for eur 190 million a year between 2007 and 2013, which was good but not generous enough. the problem is that the council agreement of 16 and 17 december does not meet the eur 190 million that the commission proposed, and as the budgetary authority in this, along with the council, parliament must press for eur 190 million a year, if we are to be seen as genuine about our millennium development goals objectives. finally, i would like to add my voice to those who say that using sugar as a biofuel is a potential way forward and a potential new market for sugar. the technology exists; it needs to be improved and adapted; that needs research and technical support, and i hope the commission will look again more generously at that aspect of reform and do more to assist the wider use of sugar, both as an environmental measure and as a way of compensating european sugar producers for the loss of revenue they face from these proposals.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, on behalf of my group, i wish to say that, in spite of the good offices of the rapporteur, we believe the compromise in front of us is unacceptably weak. that is why my group will be abstaining in tomorrow’s vote. with that abstention, we intend to indicate the following. first, that the values agreed on fresh water protection are completely unclear: the parameters have been so tampered with by statistical changes that the degree of protection they will provide is extremely dubious. according to the peer-reviewed article about to appear in the scientific journal environmental health perspectives, which was mentioned by mr maaten, these values will bring no improvement for the quality of fresh water at all. second, the real opportunity we had to extend this directive to cover recreational uses has been completely lost in the compromise. third, after a strong fight for higher standards, parliament’s delegation suddenly dropped all of its demands after the council offered a minimal increase of one of the two standards of the sufficient category. finally, the process by which this final agreement was reached was highly unsatisfactory, with last-minute technical proposals being introduced – verbally, not in writing – and with no time to properly study their implications. this is a disappointing result, but, in spite of that, i should like to thank everyone involved. i appreciate that it is not an easy business, but we will be abstaining tomorrow.
mr president, clean and safe bathing water is an obvious necessity, and an essential aid to a prosperous tourist industry. in my region of northern ireland there are many beautiful beaches, several of which proudly boast blue flag status. we have others yet to attain that accolade. i trust that this directive will assist in their achievement of that status. equally relevant is compliance with the urban waste water treatment directive. this has been easier for countries eligible for cohesion funding, which makes available grants precisely for such projects. however, regions like mine, which have not and still do not qualify for cohesion funding, have greater difficulty in bringing their water treatment infrastructure up to acceptable standards. extra national funding is, therefore, the only resort and has to be found. it is important to realise that the bathing water directive should be considered in that wider context.
on behalf of the alde group. – president-in-office, you are said to be skilled in drawing and adept at mountaineering. you have sketched for us a clear picture of your presidency and you have mapped the contours of your summits. your main task over these six months will be to reach agreement with this house on the union’s seven-year spending plans. as one of the backers of the bid to slash the budget, you have belaboured the union with its lowest capability ever. this budget will meet not even the demands of europe’s leaders, let alone the ambitions of our citizens. that is why liberals and democrats will vote today to reject the deal brokered by mr blair. if you are to rebuild confidence in the european project, you need to convince europeans that the eu works to serve their interests. the erasmus programme is one of our most visible and successful projects, yet the council is seeking to cut the budget for young people. the airbus project is a triumph of common endeavour, yet there will be too little money for research and development to replicate it. we trust the council will show willingness to work with this house to redirect money towards priorities like research and development. each year, large sums are under-spent or decommitted in areas like agriculture or the structural funds. these should be kept for eu priorities, not refunded to member states. likewise, the budget should be based on the actual percentage of gni, rather than nominal figures. with growth just half a percent greater than forecast, for example, 1.045% of gni could be worth almost eur 16 billion more. should the lisbon agenda truly succeed in making us more competitive, that figure could be even larger. can we count on you to study ideas like these for the interinstitutional agreement? liberals and democrats look forward to working with you for greater economic competitiveness and more jobs. you have described this as ‘the most urgent task of european policy’. but this means embracing the opportunities offered by the eu, not shrinking under pressure from protectionists. in a wider union, the gates of vienna are no longer under siege, nor is your way of life threatened by the european court of justice. president-in-office, 2006 is the european year of workers’ mobility. how ironic, then, that you seek to prolong – for the first time in eu history – transitional arrangements which hinder the free movement of workers within our union. (applause) liberals and democrats reject a two-tier europe in which citizens of the new member states are treated as second class. moreover, europe’s entrepreneurs need all the skilled help they can get in the absence of a consensus on immigration. was it not the celebrated austrian simon wiesenthal who said: ‘freedom is not a gift of heaven, you have to fight for it every day’? liberals and democrats agree. and we trust you will maintain our commitment to individual liberties and human rights in a world where they are increasingly trodden under foot. let us ensure that the european monitoring centre for racism and xenophobia in vienna becomes a fully-fledged human rights agency. and press for a world-wide human rights dialogue to tackle the death of democracy in russia, the fetters on freedom in china and the hypocrisy of an american president who kills pakistani villagers in the name of democracy and civilisation. i believe that austria’s presidency could be a service to europe, and to the world. if you uphold the promise of transparency made in december and start holding council meetings in public, citizens will better understand the union. if you can rediscover 1998’s ‘pörtschachsgeist’ and set a positive agenda for action liberals and democrats will applaud your efforts. if you work with us and your colleagues to put the constitutional debate back on the rails you will breathe hope into the union’s affairs. we wish you courage and accomplishment in the coming months.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president-in-office, so very wonderful was mr blair’s presidency and his contribution to euroscepticism that we had hoped for an encore of a further six months; but that was not to be. however, i can assure you that you are our second choice. we are very grateful to you for your thoughts that somehow the constitution is not dead, but presumably merely sleeping. presumably you think that it will be brought back to life at any time, which according to the press shocked even mr barroso from his extended period of reflection. so carry on as best you can! never mind the fact that 70% of your own people in austria do not approve of the way you have been talking this morning. never mind that two-thirds of the british people cannot see any benefit in remaining part of this sham parliament. never mind about the ‘no’ vote in france; never mind about the ‘no’ vote in holland. from your lofty position your disdain for democracy will be noticed and, i am sure, approved of in many sections of this parliament. meanwhile, on a more mundane level, this is becoming a very expensive club to belong to. never mind that during the season of goodwill mr blair comes along and contributes so much money – gbp 7 billion – that his would-be successor now wishes to have a national patriotic ‘britain day’ day to try and undo the damage to the perception of the british people. we have a 63% increase in our budget over seven years, and the working time directive is to be brought in, so we cannot even create that wealth. what a wonderful agenda! and to all those who came from eastern europe in the hope of getting money, i am sorry, but the cheque is not in the post!
president-in-office, on behalf of the european democrats in the ppe-de group, and as the first british conservative to speak, i welcome you and wish you well. you take over the council presidency at an important time and, in the wake of the opportunities wasted by the british presidency, you now have the chance to make real progress in a number of key areas. i sincerely hope that the economic reform agenda will be taken forward with some urgency. it stalled under the last presidency and i urge you not to be deflected from pursuing the case for reform. i am somewhat concerned about the issue of the services directive, on which i believe you are planning some changes, and about your plans to coordinate social security systems. i hope you will not do anything that would damage the prospects of economic progress under such measures. i also ask you not to change the working time directive opt-out which, certainly from a uk perspective, has been fundamental to that country’s economic wellbeing of late. i warmly welcome your call for a serious discussion on the role of the european court of justice. that is an extremely important debate because the court has seemed in recent years to extend european competences into areas where there was decidedly no european law. it is therefore a timely debate and one which i am very pleased will take place. you have made a number of comments on the european constitution. i wish to make it clear that we truly believe it would be sensible for the constitution not to be resurrected at present. the remarks by the dutch foreign minister cannot be ignored. the citizens of europe do not want a more centralised state and they do not want a centralised europe. at laeken, at the beginning of the convention process, the leaders stated that they wanted to reconnect the eu and its institutions with the people. the constitution failed to do that. however, the people do want a europe that deals with jobs, economic growth, the environment, and cooperation in fighting crime and terrorism. we must break out of the tired debate on institutions and constitutions. let us focus on those areas in which the eu can add value to people’s quality of life and living standards. i wish you all good luck. (applause)
president-in-office, president chirac says he would like piecemeal reform. mr sarkozy says he wants a concentrated constitution and a core group of the six larger member states. mrs merkel says she would like a social protocol. mr juncker and mr verhofstadt want a renegotiation of the treaty. mr bot says that the project is finished. prime minister blair maintains a profound silence on the whole question. which of your colleagues can be right? (applause)
mr president, under rule 19(1) of the rules of procedure, i would ask you to rule on an issue relating to the proper conduct of parliamentary business. according to the screens, one of the groups in the european parliament has scheduled a press conference this afternoon on a subject that parliament is now voting on, and is seeking to criticise members of the european parliament by giving it the title: ‘parliamentary autism’. i do not wish to comment on the substance of the press conference, but would ask you to rule that using a disability as a derogatory term is an act of discrimination against disabled people. i would ask you to rule that the group should withdraw that title immediately as it is offensive to people with autism. (applause)
in writing. the british conservative delegation supports the böge report in its call for the rejection of the european council's common position on the financial perspective 2007-2013 in its current form. we support the report in its call for a firm commitment to undertake a review of the financial perspective with a clear role for the european parliament, and we very strongly support the call for sufficient accompanying measures to ensure better implementation and control of expenditure of funds in the member states. we note with concern, however, the call for the committee on budgets to negotiate on the basis of the european parliament's position of 8 june 2005 which, if agreed, would increase the commitment appropriations by eur 112 474 billion over the period. for this reason we have abstained on the final vote.
in writing. it may surprise people that ukip has, for the first time ever, voted for a report that is overtly federalist in tone. we do so because the adoption of this report kills the deal brokered by tony blair in december. to us, a 63% increase in the uk's contribution to the eu is unacceptable. the surrender of £7 billion of our rebate is unacceptable. the current financial perspectives are a bad deal for britain. if this report is accepted, we fall back on article 272 of the treaty and annual negotiations of the budget. though we disagree strongly with the reasons behind this report, we are happy to play our part in re-opening a debate about how uk taxpayers' money is spent. the more people are exposed to the workings of the eu, the less they like it.
in writing. the uk pse group will abstain on the final vote on the böge report of 18.01.2006 for the following reasons: 1. we are concerned about the reference to enhancing agricultural policy in paragraph 7 which is something we have been fighting against for a long time. 2. the uk pse group is against the first sentence of paragraph 4 which states that the ep 'rejects the european council's common position'. first, we believe the uk presidency had a difficult task on its hands trying to reach agreement on this sensitive and divisive issue. few believed the uk would be able to achieve the final compromise given the sometimes diametrically opposed positions taken by the 25 eu member states on this issue. in the second place, we think it is not the ep's role to reject the position of the council: all we can do is take note of their position and decide upon our own position which may disagree with the council's position but does not reject it. 3. the uk pse group supports what the ep is trying to do in terms of improving accountability and the flexibility of the budget to respond to future challenges facing the eu given its role as a major global actor.
in writing. the outcome of the council meeting at dead of night in brussels last december fails scotland and fails europe. it is unacceptable to the parliament and i am pleased to support this motion to reject the deal as agreed and to start negotiations on making it better. parliament has been instrumental in forcing the member states, the uk being chief among them, to act reasonably, but we can still do better than the deal before us today. i think parliament is right to hold out for a better compromise and am glad that we have passed this motion today and look forward to the negotiations.
in writing. constituents across scotland have contacted me seeking action on equitable life, not just words. today we have answered their pleas, and i am glad that parliament has taken this decisive step when the london government has not. people had their savings and pensions plans thrown into chaos when equitable life collapsed, and it is right that they continue to seek answers. i look forward to working with the committee to get to the bottom of this issue.
in writing. i voted for the setting up of a european parliament inquiry into allegations of cia activity in relation to alleged abductions, 'extraordinary rendition', 'detention at secret sites', 'detention incommunicado', torture, cruelty, inhuman or degrading treatment of prisoners on the territory of the eu, including acceding and candidate countries. it is important, in light of widespread concerns, including those in my london constituency, that the ep inquiry makes a serious effort to assess the veracity of the allegations.
in writing. the allegations that our friends and colleagues the americans have used european airports as staging posts in flights which would be illegal under our laws are worrying in the extreme. it is right that we in the european parliament should seek to shed light on this murky business, as this issue is of importance to all our citizens. i for my part do not believe that the americans are guilty of half the things they stand accused of, but we will only be able to answer these allegations by getting to the truth of the matter, and i look forward to working with the inquiry to do just that.
in writing. i voted for this report because the new fourth water quality category as introduced by the council is maintained, and the four categories are now combined with better figures for the level of toxicology defining them. these new figures should help decrease the risks to bathers' health by improving the category levels.
mr president, i was the epp rapporteur for the internal market committee for the port services directive, and obviously i voted to reject it - but for completely different reasons from almost everyone else in this house. this directive was a step back from the liberalisation that we have already undertaken in the united kingdom. whilst many in this house were burying their heads in the sand to the fact that we are now operating in a global economy and our competitors are better and quicker at doing things than us, i was concerned that this pretty pathetic proposal for a directive emanating from the last commission, which should never have been resubmitted by the current commission, did not go far enough. there are many reasons why we should be aware of and concerned about our global competitors. sticking our heads, necks and everything else into the sand, and forgetting that we are in a global market, is no way to deal with that situation.
in writing. i voted against the proposed port services directive as i believe it would have serious implications for the main port in my constituency: belfast port. by imposing the usual 'one-size-fits-all' solution on all eu ports, the directive would subject belfast port, which handles 66% of northern ireland's seaborne trade, to unnecessary and commercially restrictive practices which would damage its economic viability. in particular, belfast's on-going investment programmes, crucial to the docks' future and currently being rolled out, would be adversely affected because of the need to constantly re-tender, which is not practical in securing long term infrastructure. while it is quite right that certain markets should be open to competition, i consider it unnecessary to apply such requirements in this form to markets which are already the product of open contractual competition, such as that of cargo handling in belfast port. northern ireland relies greatly on the maintenance of a competitive and efficient port infrastructure. in my opinion, this unnecessary directive would only stymie the development of belfast and other ports. i therefore totally reject this proposal, whose effect would be stultifying and regressive.
in writing. i voted against this proposed directive and i welcome its rejection by parliament. this rejection shows that the system of checks and balances in the eu’s institutional system actually works. without the existence of the elected european parliament, there would have been a real danger that, if left to their own devices, the commission and national ministers in the council would have adopted this undesirable piece of legislation.
in writing. i voted against the report and against the directive just as i had done the first time this proposal came before us. port owners and managers did not want the directive. employees and trade unions did not want it. i am pleased that meps have once again rejected the proposal and i hope that this time the commission will listen to our democratic voice, not attempt to reintroduce their unwelcome plans.
in writing. i voted to reject the port services directive as i believe that member states should regulate the internal workings of their own ports, provided that they are in line with european competition and state aid laws.
in writing. i voted against the report because there are provisions which affect the commercial activities of ports in a detrimental fashion and which also affect the health and safety issues of workers at ports. i am not satisfied that these issues have been dealt with.
in writing. this package has been roundly rejected by ports, unions and other bodies across scotland. as a maritime nation we already have efficient port services and the competition model the commission seeks to create in this package is not suitable to scotland's needs nor, i believe, to those of europe as a whole. the protests we saw at the beginning of this week were marred by the disgraceful violence of a minority, but the irony is that they were protesting in front of the one eu institution which supports their cause. i am glad that we have today sent the commission home to think again, and hope that the commission will now accept our view on this matter.
in writing. i welcome today's vote on this issue, and especially parliament's overwhelming commitment to treating same-sex partners with equality of respect. i very much regret parliament's unwillingness to say what is going on within our own member states. we know that what parliament says and does affects public perceptions. recent events and statements in poland and parliamentary debates in latvia and lithuania have been shameful in my view. some of the debates have amounted to hate speak. this sort of behaviour runs counter to council of europe conventions and eu treaties, so the european parliament should be brave enough to speak out and confront this.
in writing. sustainable development must take higher prominence across all of our policy areas, and i am glad that this report provides a starting point on how to achieve this and am glad to support it. in my own country, scotland, we have a unique contribution to make in terms of renewable energy, with our vast natural potential offering us the opportunity to become europe's green powerhouse. but this potential will not be developed without strong encouragement from government at all levels, and we must redouble our efforts to take the ideas in this report and build upon them.
rapporteur. – mr president, this is parliament’s first response to the crisis created by france and the netherlands in rejecting the constitution. it is a chance for us to reflect on what will be lost, especially for parliament, should we be incapable of salvaging the project and bringing it to a successful conclusion. it is a chance for us to respond to the cacophony of sounds emerging from the ranks of the council – some simplistic, some in breach of the treaty, some improbable politically. it is a chance for us to encourage the commission to be more forthright and incisive to assist us in finding a way forward out of the crisis. it is a chance for parliament to fill some political space and to bring a focus to the period of reflection. we know that we cannot achieve all this by ourselves but must have the close collaboration of national parliaments. i must say that i find it fairly curious in this context that the presidents of the austrian, finnish and german parliaments seem somewhat reluctant to cooperate with us. it is up to the parliaments to decide whether or not they turn up. those who choose to turn up will have a decisive say in fashioning the decisions about the future of europe. the proposals, which received strong support from the committee, set out a parliamentary process. we seek to establish a series of parliamentary forums to debate some fundamental – perhaps even primitive – questions about the nature and purpose of europe. we want to have the debate about the reform of common policies that the first convention was in some part frustrated in being denied. this policy debate can and should be radical, but it must take place within the constitutional context and be closely related to issues of competences, to instruments and to procedures. the first of these forums will take place on 9 may and will address its conclusions to the european council, which is to take some first decisions about the furtherance of the project. we would like to draw the period of reflection to a close at the end of 2007 with a firm, clear decision on what to do with the treaty. as the resolution states, there are, in theory, several scenarios we could follow, but in practice there are only two. the first is to supplement the present treaty with interpretative protocols or declarations. the second is to make rather more substantive changes to part iii so that we address the legitimate concerns and disquiet expressed by citizens in france and the netherlands and in some other member states. between and inside the groups there is certainly controversy about the appropriate way to express ourselves. however, on the essentials of salvaging the treaty, we are strongly united and i commend the resolution to parliament. (applause)
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, just one year ago this parliament endorsed the constitution by an overwhelming majority. now there are at least two views within that majority. one view is to say that this text of the constitution is dead following the referendum defeats in france and the netherlands; that we had better start thinking of something else and preparing a different way forward. the other view is to say: wait a minute, this text has actually now been ratified by a majority of member states. the heads of government themselves in the european council did not declare it dead, they extended the period of ratification and opened a period of reflection. in that period of reflection we must listen to those who said ‘no’, but we must also listen to the majority who have said ‘yes’ and find a way forward that can ultimately bring the two together. this report achieves a synthesis of those two viewpoints. it says that it is too soon to conclude now; the period of reflection must be extended at least until 2007. until then we need to keep all options open. we need longer and deeper reflection. of course – as is to be expected – we say that this parliament would prefer to maintain the text, but we recognise that that would only be possible if measures were taken to reassure and convince public opinion. what those measures are is left open. there are, in theory, many options: supplementary interpretative declarations, extra protocols, rewriting part of the text, rewriting the whole text, starting a new text. that we will conclude at the end of the period of reflection, but for now let us keep on with that reflection, deepen it, broaden it and reach conclusions in a year’s time. one thing is certain, mr president: the status quo – that is, the current treaties – is not sufficient for this union in its enlarged form to function effectively or democratically. this issue will not go away.
mr president, after the constitution so spectacularly failed its own test for survival, namely, approval by all member states, a report which denies the resulting reality could only have come from the rarefied atmosphere of unreality that is the constitutional affairs committee. with breathtaking arrogance this report, and indeed the last speaker, seeks to second-guess and repudiate the democratic verdict of the people of france and holland by declaring that those results were not about rejecting the constitution, but about dissent and other issues. nonsense! the question on the ballot paper was about one thing only – the acceptability of the constitution – and the answer was equally clear. why not face the truth? you lost. instead, the europhiles in this house have a new catchphrase. they think it is very clever: ‘context, not text, is the problem’. how fitting that it begins with the word ‘con’. for that is what this period of reflection is all about. how can the text be repackaged so that next time they can con the voters into buying the soiled goods that is the constitution?
mr president, this is not a voggenhuber-duff report, it is just a duff report. the question is, is the constitution dead or is it just sleeping? if the answer to all this had been ‘yes’, there can be no doubt that the commissioners would have had no difficulty in explaining what ‘yes’ meant. it is just us poor peasants who happen to believe in ‘no’ who now need to have it explained to us what ‘no’ means. ‘no’ in this case means sheer arrogance on the part of the commission in presuming to go ahead with this project, when 70% of people in austria do not want it to go ahead; when two-thirds of the population of great britain do not see any benefit in future membership of this sham parliament; when the people of france have voted ‘no’; and when the people of holland have voted ‘no’. what part of ‘no’ does the commission not understand? ‘no’ means that large proportions of the population of europe do not want to continue with this pretence. we thought we were joining a common market and it has grown and grown and grown like topsy until this final report, which is pushing us towards full political union. well, it will all fall apart, without any doubt, because that is not what people thought they were voting for. i am glad that ukip will not fail, because nothing can stop an idea whose time has come, and that means national freedom.
mr president, listening to this debate i am reminded of bertolt brecht’s lines:„wäre es dann nicht doch einfacher, die regierung löste das volk auf und wählte ein anderes?“ the peoples of two core founding states have thrown your projects out, my friends. i know it is hard to accept rejection, but look at the figures: 55% of french voters; 62% of dutch voters. you might try to argue that the voters have got it wrong; that they are suffering from what marxists used to call false consciousness; that they need better propaganda; that it is up to us – the euro-elite – to point them in the right direction. to which i say, ‘do your damnedest’. current polls in the netherlands show that 82% of dutch voters would now vote ‘no’ – a tribute to the level-headedness of that brave people. but if you think you can turn them around, dear colleagues, be my guests. doing so would at least prove your commitment to the democratic ideals you so frequently invoke. far more outrageous would be to push ahead with the implementation of the constitution – or, at least, of its contents – without popular consent. yet this is precisely what you are doing. look at the number of policies and institutions envisaged by the constitution that have been or are being enacted regardless: the european external action service, the european human rights agency, the european defence agency, the european space programme, the european external borders agency, a justiciable charter of fundamental rights: none of these has any proper legal basis outside the constitution. by adopting them anyway, you demonstrate that you will allow no force – internal or external, neither your own rule book nor the expressed opposition of your peoples in the ballot box – to arrest the rush to political assimilation. in doing so, you vindicate the severest of your opponents’ criticisms. in the words of my countryman oliver cromwell ‘i beseech you in the bowels of christ, think it possible you may be mistaken’. (applause)
i cannot support this report. the text fails to recognise that the constitutional treaty has been rejected by electors in two member states. undoubtedly if given the opportunity of a referendum, other rejections would also be delivered. the two rapporteurs want to somehow revive the core of the current, rejected, text. this does not seem to me to be credible. how can french and dutch voters be expected to accept such arrogance. we are in a so-called period of reflection, let us make it a period in which to rethink, replace, and not just regurgitate a document which has already been resoundingly rejected.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, russia clearly faces a serious criminal and terrorist threat in chechnya, and the surrounding northern caucasus remain unstable, with daily killings of both the security forces and criminals. there are also frequent civilian kidnappings that go unpunished and are carried out by unaccountable ugly paramilitary units. everyone remains conscious of the tragedy of beslan. and i still have had no satisfactory reply from my government, the british government, as to why it grants refugee status to ahmed zakayev, who is part of the same so-called chechen government-in-exile as the wanted terrorist shamil basayev, who was behind beslan. there is nevertheless still also a westward flow of genuine innocent chechen refugees caught up in this brutal war. so, the eu has every interest in calling for human rights to be respected, as well as becoming more critical of the democratic standards of the elections in november 2005. there is current concern, for instance, at the decision of a local court to shut down the operations in ingushetia of the centre for peacemaking and community development, a russian-british humanitarian group. it is also considering a request to ban another charity, the united states-based international medical corps. this shows the degree of hostility to foreign presence of humanitarian ngos operating in the region. it illustrates the phenomenon of increasing authoritarianism across the whole of russia, as has been well documented recently by freedom house, and as we have seen over the recent duma bill on foreign ngos, where even the final version still permits refusal of registration to any foreign group that threatens russian sovereignty, cultural heritage and national interests – grounds which are vague and open to local administrative interpretation. our resolution today aims to keep the pressure up on the russian federation for higher standards of human rights in this tragic region which has been so besieged by conflict for so long.
mr president, i shall begin by expressing my deep regret that president putin reportedly signed a new bill yesterday to control non-governmental organisations, coinciding with the decision by the ingush supreme court to deny authorisation to the uk charity the centre for peace and community development, whose moscow representative i spoke to this morning. this is an organisation that had been providing humanitarian aid to about 1 000 chechen refugee children and shows what a crackdown that bill represents. it is clearly incompatible with the european convention on human rights and it is essential that the european union does not simply protest but takes action, including insisting that non-governmental organisations take part in the eu’s human rights consultation with russia. instead, what we see appears to be an attempt at a military solution by mr putin, accompanied by flagrant abuses of human rights, including arbitrary detention, forced confessions and torture, and some 2 500 disappearances since 1999. president putin calls neighbouring dagestan a ‘mini iraq on russia’s doorstep’. we cannot allow things to progress in that way.
my supplementary is on the exact point that mrs stenzel has just made: will the president-in-office speak to each of the other 24 member states, in his capacity as president-in-office, to encourage them to cooperate fully with the european parliament’s temporary committee of inquiry into cia flights?
madam president, when the environment ministers of the mediterranean region met in november, they painted a very bleak picture of the management of water resources in the area and said that in years to come there are going to be significant water shortages. this is not just an environmental issue, but a security issue. if there is a dispute over water supply it can affect the stability of the region. will the minister consider urging that this be put on the agenda of the next euro-mediterranean summit?
does the minister agree with me that there is an ever-increasing list of countries: india, pakistan, sri lanka, egypt, nigeria, vietnam, and china – the list goes on and on – where christians are being persecuted and the governments either connive at it, or take ineffective action to stop it? these are countries with which we do business. will austria now give a lead to the council and the european union to stand up for the religious rights of christians in those countries with whom we deal, just as we rightly stand up for religious freedom and tolerance within the european union?
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the situation of non-muslim minorities is being closely monitored by the european union. in line with the eu-turkey accession partnership, it is essential for the successful conduct of the accession talks that the turkish government embarks on further reforms in the area of religious freedom, in particular in the area of training of clergy or also in the acquisition of legal personality of non-muslim minorities, in order to also approach the standards within the european union in this area. we will monitor this closely in the course of the accession process, but we will also support turkey in implementing the necessary reforms.
minister, raising these issues with the countries is all well and good, but surely we need an ethical policy that produces results. is it not time to make a very direct link between trade with these countries and respect for human rights? when we liberalise trade with such countries who persecute christians and others, should we not make it conditional upon them liberalising their human rights regime so that minorities within those countries have the rights that we take for granted?
rapporteur. – mr president, first i should like to pay special tribute to my predecessor, mr laschet, from whom i inherited this report after his departure from the house. i was initially sceptical when the european neighbourhood policy (enp) concept was first floated in the 2003 communication on a wider europe. the chief conceptual problem was how to coordinate a policy on countries that appear to have different and contradictory aims, such as libya wanting to host the african union at the time, and ukraine wanting to join the european union. political leadership is about turning concepts into reality and the enp is now an established political reality accepted by the partner states. my report seeks to review its workings, bring additional recommendations from parliament and clarify some of the misunderstandings surrounding it. the enp offers a privileged relationship between the eu and all its current non-member state neighbours to the south and east. it excludes the current eu candidates for membership and the potential candidate countries of the western balkans which have separate special arrangements. but what does the privilege bring? in short, two things: firstly, the greater sharing of democratic values, and secondly, aid and trade for promoting those values. the enp is therefore two-tracked: one lane promotes the values that underpin the european union, namely, a commitment to common values regarding the rule of law, good governance, respect for human rights, the promotion of good-neighbourly relations and the principles of market economy and sustainable development; the other entails sanctions for failing them by restricting aid or trade privileges. the aim ultimately is to establish a circle of friends around the european union in which the essential task of promoting and enhancing prosperity, stability and security is carried out in partnership and to mutual advantage. there will be increased financial assistance through a single dedicated european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi), also applicable to russia, which from 2007 onwards will replace the current tacis and meda programmes. however, i am concerned that the commission might decouple the enp from the enpi budget, which will entail a substantial erosion of parliament's powers of oversight and scrutiny. the commission has already presented a strategy paper and country reports on a series of enp countries, followed by action plans. a regular reviewing process will monitor the implementation of those, for which i seek more parliamentary involvement. seven action plans have been adopted with israel, jordan, morocco, tunisia, the palestinian authority, ukraine and moldova. five more are in preparation with armenia, azerbaijan, egypt, georgia and lebanon. i strongly support improved access for enp countries to the single market and, in some cases, the eventual conclusion of neighbourhood agreements and the establishment of fully-fledged free trade agreements with the european union. i also support participation in the esdp/cfsp, including the various council working groups, and membership, where appropriate, of the eu devolved agencies. we also need better focus on drugs, weapons and people-trafficking and enhanced exchanges of criminal intelligence between national agencies in the fight against international terrorism and organised crime, as well as renewed efforts for the peaceful resolution of outstanding territorial disputes, including the frozen conflicts. by coincidence, today in london, armenia and azerbaijan are meeting to resolve the nagorno-karabakh question. several enp partner countries, such as azerbaijan and algeria, are rich in energy resources, as are the producers or transporters of oil and gas. therefore, energy policy and eu energy security will be a key pillar of the enp. the recent russia/ukraine gas crisis illustrates how energy policy and foreign policy now interface. lastly, i do not consider the enp a fixed, long-term alternative to full eu membership for those democratic european countries entitled to apply which have expressed a desire to do so, such as ukraine and moldova. the report goes some way towards recognising their european aspirations. in contrast, as for other former central asian soviet states, such as kazakhstan – although currently not a part of the enp – the eu should give serious consideration, in my view, when their pca agreements eventually expire, to extending their right to participate in this ambitious project if they so wish.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to speak as chairwoman of the delegation for relations with switzerland, iceland and norway and of the delegation to the european economic area (eea) joint parliamentary committee. i was sorry to see paragraph 43 of the report, which rather churlishly lumps these countries in with the rest of our neighbours and/or puts them on a par with andorra and the vatican state. sadly, it is not the first time that has happened in this parliament. by my amendment i wanted at the very least to refer to eea-efta. indeed, we should appreciate that our own member states are members of the eea. this is a close and deep relationship which already entails full participation in the internal market and other eu programmes. further, the eea-efta countries are in fact already our partners and fellow contributors in building democracy and other activities within our new neighbours. i think mr tannock will understand a british footballing analogy. whilst these countries do not currently aspire to the premiership, to be full members, they are currently in the championship and certainly not down at the bottom somewhere in the conference league. i believe we hope to repeat a meeting with the eea-efta foreign ministers and our committee on foreign affairs. i hope my amendment will save some embarrassment about the way we perceive our oldest and closest partners and neighbours and also about our understanding of eea-efta.
mr president, the european neighbourhood policy calls for the consolidating of democracy and the rule of law in the eu's neighbouring countries. how can the eu seriously consolidate democracy in non-eu countries when the central driving force of eu membership is itself the inexorable removal of any real, meaningful, democratic accountability in its member states? how can the eu seriously call for the extension of the rule of law in non-member countries when the eu itself ignores its own laws? i speak, of course, of the proposed eu constitution which should be dead under treaty law because of the 'no' votes in the french and dutch referendums. instead, however, the constitution is being kept on a life-support machine until the inconvenience of democratic rejection can be overcome by some underhand means. mr tannock would do better to concern himself with the interests of those he was elected to represent rather than those who did not elect him.
mr president, i should like to pay tribute to commissioner verheugen for his work in securing the successful enlargement to include the baltic states. could commissioner ferrero-waldner, in her reply to this debate, clarify an aspect which is somewhat confusing? we talk about our 'neighbourhood policy', but russia is a new neighbour of the european union. is russia part of the neighbourhood policy or do we have an eu/russia policy that is distinct? george orwell, one of my countrymen, wrote a book called animal farm and he used the expression: 'all animals are equal, but some are more equal than others.' i hope that the european union member state governments do not share that view but rather subscribe to the common foreign and security policy and to the idea that there will be no bilateral negotiations with any of our neighbours. an american poet, robert frost, talking about neighbourhood, said that: 'good fences make good neighbours.' i hope that russia will very soon find itself in a position to be able to ratify the border agreements with estonia and latvia. it is very difficult, however strong our view about good relations may be, if not only member state frontiers but our own eu borders are not recognised by a neighbour. perhaps the commissioner might be able to comment on the progress made with president putin and his colleagues towards agreement on what must be a fairly fundamental issue. we are obviously investing a great deal with our russian colleagues and friends, but unless they recognise our fences, it is surely very difficult for us to have that mutual sense of confidence and trust. two minutes is not a great deal of time to discuss this vitally important subject, but i would refer colleagues to paragraph 1 of mr tannock's excellent report, which says that the european parliament 'declares that the aim of privileged neighbourhood relations with the eu's neighbours includes, as an essential precondition, an active and concrete commitment to common values in the fields of the rule of law, good governance, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the principles of a transparent social market ...'. i hope that president putin may find time to read at least paragraph 1 of mr tannock's report.
mr president, i rise on a point of order, the number of which will be familiar to your aides, about supplementary questions following a debate. the commissioner was not able to answer the question as to whether or not the eu/russia policy and the neighbourhood policy are allied. i would refer the commissioner to paragraphs 16 and 26 of the tannock report. perhaps she might give me a written reply.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, on behalf of my colleagues i am delighted to welcome here the new sme envoy. i speak today as a vice-president of the sme circle here in parliament, as well as the draftsman of the opinion on the commission report for the committee on employment and social affairs. i am delighted to record that this opinion was not only passed unanimously in that committee, but that all its suggestions were incorporated into the final report by mrs vlasto which was also passed unanimously in the committee on industry. so i thank mrs vlasto for her cooperation and congratulate her on an excellent report. one might ask, then, why we are bothering to have a debate, especially at this very late hour, given this complete agreement on all sides of the house. i suggest that the answer is very simple: we do not want just a debate about smes, we want a debate that will lead to concrete action, and we want concrete action not just by member states but also by the commission. commissioner, i welcome the comments you made elsewhere today that 2006 will be a year of delivery for smes. all of us want to help you deliver. we see ourselves as on the same side as you. i would just like to mention quickly three specific ideas. we want the voice of small businesses to be heard loudly, clearly and officially within the social dialogue, not to be drowned out by the larger social partners, as happens now. a concrete proposal has been promised. can you please confirm when it will arrive, in what form it will arrive, and how we can help you to turn it into a reality when it does arrive? secondly, the charter has proposed that smes should be exempted from certain regulatory obligations. can you please confirm whether the commission will lead by example in this respect and, if so, when we can expect some concrete proposals from the commission on this issue too? finally, given that apparently there will be no more annual charter reports from the commission in future, how will the commission ensure that issues facing smes remain increasingly front-of-mind within member states, given the temptation for it to be weaker, rather than stronger?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this report calls for a reduction in bureaucratic obstacles and the simplification of taxation for small businesses. who could disagree with that? but then the report goes on to say that eu legislation should be implemented equally across member states and, in the case of non-compliance, rapid infringement procedures should be applied. we are immediately transported back into the world of one-size-fits-all eu legislation and penalties, which are guaranteed to strangle enterprise, initiative and business creation. my own party pointed out during the british presidency of 2005 that over 4 000 new regulations and legislative instruments were enacted, despite mr blair’s rash promise to reduce overregulation. if small and medium-sized businesses are to thrive in the eu, which is vital for job creation, then the simple answer is to reduce eu regulation, not increase it. otherwise, one day the only way to own a small business in europe will be to buy a big one and wait.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, as i am sure you are aware, almost all parliaments have rules in order to protect themselves against disruptive behaviour that is aimed at preventing them from working. it is not that the rules ever need to be used, maybe they will never be necessary, but it is important to have them as a democratic safeguard. what our committee is proposing today is a modest set of proposals. they would give you, mr president, powers that are far smaller than the powers of, for instance, the speaker of the house of commons; they are strictly circumscribed and are combined with safeguards to reassure those colleagues who feared that we were going to clamp down on any kind of behaviour that was in any way colourful or lively. that is not the case. but we are right to bring in a coherent and proportionate set of rules to protect ourselves if necessary. after all, at the last european election, a member was elected who seems to have disappeared now, but who, at the time of the election, said his ambition was to come here to disrupt parliament, to prevent it from working. in the end, he did not manage to do that. but, who knows, he might, in combination with others, have made a serious effort to stop us from working. that is why it is necessary to protect the democratic process, or at least to have the instruments just in case we need them. i notice that some members of our press are saying that these rules are aimed at silencing those who oppose the european union, silencing a minority viewpoint. that is not true and anyone who looked at the proposals would know that viewpoint is not plausible. we have gone out of our way to say that the pluralism of parliament – the right to express yourself, the right of freedom of expression and even, within proportion, visual expression – is safeguarded and guaranteed. so, this is not to stamp down on any minority. those who are saying it are aiming at gullible journalists or at the eurosceptic press, hoping to get a story making us look silly or ridiculous. unless they think it targets them, and i can scarcely believe that, those behind this story must either be planning to disrupt our work – and i hope that is not the case – or they are paranoid. given their general attitude to the european union – that anything coming out of our institutions is necessarily an evil plot – i rather think it is paranoia that is governing their actions in telling the press the story about this very reasonable report. my group will support the proposals of mr onesta and i hope that this gives our parliament a proportionate set of rules that we need, just in case we need to safeguard ourselves.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, since my party, the uk independence party, came to this parliament in 1999 and returned in more force in 2004, we have established the first genuine opposition to the process of european political integration. my concern is that the proposed measures may be used to try to stifle the voice of national independence and opposition to the european union. if that is the case, it will not succeed. however, i should like to offer some constructive suggestions to improve the proceedings. firstly, the presiding presidents should ensure that speakers are kept to their allotted time: pro-eu speakers are given much more leeway to overrun than anti-eu speakers. secondly, during the vote some presiding presidents need to slow down a little. in that way we might have time to vote properly. at the same time, the presidents might not make so many glaring mistakes in estimating the vote and there would be less call for electronic checks.
mr president, i congratulate mr onesta on his report, which will, if passed, amend our rules of procedure to institute stronger and more flexible procedures to discipline members who disrupt the proceedings of the house or its committees. i am not entirely sure of the meaning of the new rule 147(3)b, which suggests one penalty will be the forfeiture of entitlement to the daily subsistence allowance for a period of between two and ten days. does this mean the member concerned cannot sign in for the specified number of days – i.e. stay at home – or, rather differently, that when he or she does sign in they receive no subsistence allowance? maybe the rapporteur can clarify his intention here? i welcome amendment 3 to rule 9, paragraph 1b (new), laying down as it does a protection of members' freedom of speech. if this is passed and included in our rules i will immediately, if it comes into force next session, test its strength by retabling my written declaration on boycotting ferrero-rocher which, prior to this rule, was declared irreceivable by a former president of parliament. freedom of speech is not limited by the wishes of europe's multinational corporations.
given the behaviour of certain members and groups in the plenary of the parliament it is unfortunately necessary to introduce new rules to govern members’ conduct. in my opinion the report sets the right balance between the need to ensure freedom of parliamentary expression and vibrant debate on the one hand and dignified conduct of business on the other.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the palestinian elections on 20 january are an opportunity for the palestinians to confirm the democratic path on which they set out last january. we are grateful for the commissioner’s commitment, both personally and representing the commission. these elections take place in a highly challenging environment, which we certainly acknowledge. but the importance the european parliament attaches to their successful completion, and indeed to the peace process, can be seen in its having again authorised the largest observation delegation of 30 elected members, which i am again proud to lead jointly with mrs napoletano from the pse group. indeed, many members present here today will be in palestine next week. the current situation in the middle east represents a failure of diplomacy nearly a century ago. the only democracy to date in the region is israel, born of a genuine desire to create a jewish homeland. t e lawrence of arabia – who is a distant cousin of mine – wanted that too, but he also had a different vision for the region. a recently discovered map he drew in versailles shows arab kingdoms, not british and french dominions. today, however, we welcome the return of europe in a different guise. in her spending commitments for the palestine authority, could the commissioner envisage funding a new chamber for the palestine council? as colleagues know, democracy is my watchword. at the egyptian elections, which we witnessed last year, we saw intimidation of voters, including those supporting dr ayman nour, leader of the secular al-ghad party. the european union rightly says that his subsequent sentence at a show trial to five years’ hard labour by the same judge who put saad ibrahim in jail for three years sent negative signals. i should like to ask the commissioner: what is the negative response from brussels? the middle east is a region of fundamental strategic importance and a source of danger. the london bombers last july came from my constituency in yorkshire. but the key to stability is democracy. i am also proud, as a vice-president, to represent the european parliament on the delegation to the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. but i also believe that the european union needs a dedicated programme of democratic engagement in the region, and i look forward to hearing from the commissioner what her plans are in that regard. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on 25 january palestinians will take to the polls to elect their parliament for the first time since 1996. these elections may be six months later than planned, but that is a drop in the ocean for the generations who have longed to exercise their democratic rights. with a eur 18.5 million contribution to support the electoral process and the deployment of a skilled observation mission, including an experienced delegation from this house, the eu is showing the palestinians the path to effective democracy. it is a critical time for stability in the middle east. it is crucial for the palestinian authority to acquire more democratic legitimacy. only with effective, functioning democratic institutions can the palestinians lay the foundations for their own state, living in peace with israel. some think legitimacy impossible with a black-listed terrorist organisation competing in the polls, but hamas has rebranded itself as a change and reform movement and has maintained a state of calm in the run-up to these elections in spite of tuesday’s killing on the west bank. it has built popular support, perhaps as much as 40%, by providing numerous social services in an atmosphere of pessimism, anger and joblessness. muhammad abbas’s ruling fatah faction would also be hard pushed to meet our level of legitimacy with the legacy of cronyism and corruption. only this week the eu suspended eur 35 million in aid to the palestinian authority, and rightly so, because the necessary benchmarks have not been met. change and reform are positive words, but they need to be accompanied by concrete deeds. in recent months, hamas has made gestures towards moderation and its infamous israel policy was not included in its election manifesto. but if hamas wants to work with the eu it must be ready to push the peace process forward. that can only happen if it lays down its arms, drops its charter calling for the destruction of israel and recognises the jewish state’s right to exist. as javier solana has indicated, the taxpayers in the eu will not be in a position to sustain political activity conducted along violent lines. this is a test for the leadership skills of ehud olmert as he takes the helm after ariel sharon’s stroke earlier this month. how he manages the challenges to law and order in gaza, particularly as settlers step up their violent efforts to prevent eviction from the west bank, will set the tone for the talks we hope will materialise after these elections. but the threat of unrest should not stand in the way of democracy and we welcome israel’s decision to facilitate voting in east jerusalem, where palestinians have been virtually annexed, split from their families by a separation barrier condemned by the international court of justice. moves by israel now to comply with international law would be a tremendous confidence-building measure and an important step on the road to stability in the middle east. with the threat of nuclear developments in iran hanging over the region, steps must be taken now to demonstrate that respect for international law is alive and well in the middle east. un sanctions against iran will only gain real legitimacy in the region if israel is made to turn around its defiance of security council resolutions, a defiance unmatched by any other nation. otherwise arguments of double standards will only add fuel to the fire. (applause)
mr president, mr rocard’s excellent speech reminded me that in my earlier speech i failed to acknowledge his role as chief observer of the commission delegation last january. at present, mrs de keyser, from this house, is chairing the commission’s observer mission in palestine. i should like to acknowledge that duty. i apologise in advance for having to leave early: i think i have caught a strasbourg cold. i therefore thank the commissioner in advance for her reply to my questions.
the situation in the middle east remains a cause for concern, and is of direct relevance to us in europe given the energy dependence of the eu on foreign powers, much as my own scotland is in the happy situation of being a net exporter of energy. the political reforms underway in some middle east countries are to be welcomed, and the eu could do more to support the growth of democracy in these countries. current tensino between the eu and iran over the resumption of the iranian nuclear programme can only be resolved long term by dialogue, and if we seek the position of honest broker then we must endeavour not to avoid double standards in our dealings with iran.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – (the speaker spoke irish) mr president, eu leaders promised to make a decisive impact on the eradication of poverty by 2010, yet more than half way through the ten-year period of the lisbon agenda this has not happened. in the light of this, the lisbon agenda’s pledge to tackle gender equality must also be viewed with a degree of scepticism. mrs estrela’s report put forward practical measures for ensuring gender equality, including employment opportunities for women, and i thank her for her very good work. the creation of employment opportunities is not about providing women with low-paid jobs or with less favourable working conditions. such opportunities must have at their core equality for women on a par with their male counterparts. on average there is a pay gap of 15% across the eu, but in a recent survey in my country, ireland, it emerged that the gender pay gap has grown: it has increased for women in spite of ireland’s economic growth. irish women are paid 17% less than irish men for the same work, so it is clear, as mrs estrela says, that growth and jobs alone will not bring gender equality. president barroso told parliament yesterday of his commitment to the roadmap for gender equality, dealing amongst other matters with employment and with reducing the pay gap. i commend mrs estrela’s report to him and to commissioner michel as a good basis for progress in this area. the present emphasis on achieving growth at the expense of social inclusion, of working conditions and of environmental protection will not in any way lead us in the direction of greater gender equality. that needs to be addressed through positive action and not simply lip service.
mr president, the lisbon strategy set out the objective of an employment rate of 60% for women to be achieved by 2010 and a full employment rate for those available for work by 2010. this will not be achieved. the lisbon strategy is yet another way of damaging european economies through state interference and over-regulation. this report is typical of the socialistic approach so beloved of this parliament. it recognises the problem, which is that the economies of europe need to be more competitive and that europe is rapidly losing its competitive position, but then sets about devising measures that are either irrelevant or will actually make the problem worse. the report recommends that member states take measures to ensure that the most disadvantaged women, especially single parents, are guaranteed a minimum income. what could be more calculated to create unemployment than guaranteeing a minimum income for not working? the report states that earnings and working conditions in many member states, particularly in large commercial chains, are an affront to women’s dignity and are often the cause of miscarriages and disability. absolutely no evidence is produced for this outrageous statement. i can assure you that any commercial chain in britain that caused miscarriages and disability would soon find itself in the law courts. the way to ensure maximum employment for those people, both men and women, who want to work, is to get off the backs of businesses and deregulate. there should indeed be equal pay for equal work, and to help those parents who wish to stay at home and look after children we should lessen the tax burden on the parents who work, as indeed we should lessen the tax burden on all who wish to work. such policies will never happen in the socialistic eu, which is another reason why britain should leave the european union and take the actions required to ensure economic regeneration and prosperity while it still can.
author. – mr president, you, the commissioner and i all live with a disability. if we are without our glasses, we cannot operate; i cannot read, i cannot drive or avoid bumping into things, but i live in a society where i am helped to overcome that disability and therefore to function, even as a member of this parliament. however, if i lived in a developing country i would be less fortunate. one in ten people in developing countries live with disabilities. one in four families in poverty in developing countries has some member living with a disability. that is the challenge, but this debate is not just about long faces, sympathy and pity; it is about celebrating the abilities of people with disability and seeing how we can enable them to function and to contribute to their own lives, economies and communities. our policy, or resolution, is all about ending rejection, ending the concept of a scrap-heap, ending stigma where disability is concerned. we want a policy of prevention, of care, of enablement and of human rights. we want an end to no-go areas for people with disabilities. we want, if i can use the phrase, to see disability sans frontières. we want to see a break with that link to poverty so inevitable for people with ill health and disability in developing countries: no wealth without health, but no income without medicine. no income means no medicine; no transport means no school; no health certificate means no work; no access means no opportunity to prove one’s worth. it is not just about mobility, it is about all the disabilities that we have to learn to cope with in our different ways, whether it is sight, hearing, learning difficulties, respiratory problems or seizures. our policy must be twin-track, and i use that word advisedly: it is in the guidance that the commission has produced. it is the twin-track of prevention and care services. it is the twin-track of policy for people with disabilities and policies developed by people with disabilities, decided by them, with their involvement in policy making. we remember with pleasure those ugandan members taking the seats specially reserved for them in the ugandan parliament for people with disabilities. we want to see support for organisations of disabled people. we want recognition that neglected diseases are some of the biggest causes of disability. some need those new partnerships to develop drugs; many need access to the drugs that we in the west take for granted. i live with diabetes. i have said that on many occasions. however, i can function with the pills, blood tests and specialist attention that i receive to overcome that and to live a reasonably normal life. but when i was in mali and went to see the services there for people with diabetes, i saw one room in a clinic and one in a hospital with people with amputations of legs and arms, losing their sight, their liver destroyed and facing early death. we need a policy that helps people to overcome. those people could be contributing to the economy of mali. our acp adopted resolutions in brussels in 2001, in cape town in 2002 and in the year of people with disabilities, in 2003, in europe, we got the guidance note. but that is one of the best-kept secrets in europe and in the developing world. my plea to the commissioner is to draw out the excellent words of that and put them into practice. in particular, we do not want to see any more public european money used to continue building barriers for people with disabilities. the years 1999 to 2009 are the african decade of disabled people, set up by the african union. that target date coincides with the end of our term as parliamentarians and commissioners. by that date i hope we will look back and say that we made the effort to help disabled people achieve, to enable them, and to make them real, whole people in the economies and communities in which they live. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i welcome the chance to debate this issue, and i should like to thank mr bowis for this opportunity. disabled people, as we have heard, make up about 10% of any population, but 20% of the poorest are disabled. eighty-two per cent of disabled people live below the poverty line in developing countries. they are even more excluded than disabled people within the eu. they are excluded from social, economic and political life and, in many cases, are denied access to food, water and shelter. when we talk about disability and development, we are not talking about charity but about basic human rights. all people – disabled or otherwise – should be treated as equal. that is why i am pleased that we are stressing the rights-based approach. we must ensure that disabled people and disabled people’s organisations are involved in discussions about what is needed and in the delivery. i am pleased that we have made progress on the un convention on disabled people’s rights. hopefully we will see something by 2007. many of you know that i was rapporteur for parliament’s position on this. we must ensure, however, that monitoring and enforcement procedures are included within the convention. that is why i called for a legally binding convention. it is important that whatever we bring forward, real action is taken and that action is monitored and evaluated. part of that action is to prevent more people becoming disabled. one way to eradicate this is to ensure that landmines and cluster bombs are not used. we must take action against all countries that manufacture, sell or use them.
mr president, under the rules of procedure concerning voting, you have just said that it is the right of every single member to call for a check. it is also the right of the president to point out that there is an overwhelming majority in favour; and when colleagues from ukip start shouting at the back, please ignore them! (loud applause)
mr president, is it your wish that certain members of this house be regarded as second-class citizens or not?
rapporteur. – mr president, to bring the text into line with the treaties, we would prefer the wording ‘eu outermost regions adjacent to the european continent’.
rapporteur. – mr president, the rapporteur and the ppe-de group’s voting list objected to the liberal proposal to insert the sub-heading ‘maghreb’. you went too quickly and were not looking in my direction. the ppe-de group opposes the sub-heading ‘maghreb’ after paragraph 33.
rapporteur. – mr president, just for the sake of completeness, to call the vatican city state a ‘country’ is stretching the definition a little far, so i have changed the wording to ‘sovereign states’. (vote) (vote) (vote) (vote) (vote) (vote) (vote) (vote) (vote) (vote) (vote) (vote) (vote) (vote) (vote)
rapporteur. – mr president, i agree that amendment 2 does not fall. we can have a separate vote on it.
rapporteur. – mr president, this is quite a complicated oral amendment. as you may appreciate, negotiations are going on today in london. they are very delicate, regarding finding a long-lasting peaceful solution to the ngorno karabakh dispute between armenia and azerbaijan. to bring the wording into a more neutral stance, i would like the paragraph to read as follows: ‘takes the view that the nagorno-karabakh conflict is impeding the development of armenia and azerbaijan and regional cooperation as well as the effective implementation of the european neighbourhood policy as such; calls on both parties to refrain from unilateral actions and aggressive statements and to work for settlement of the conflict in a constructive dialogue with all the forces concerned, on the basis of respect for minority rights and on the basis of the principles of international law;’ – that is key – ‘emphasises the importance of continuing democratic reforms for the development of the region and its relations with the eu; urges all parties concerned to find ways to permit the gradual return of refugees on the basis of minority rights, in particular with regard to the return of azerbaijanis to the occupied territories; calls on the member countries of the osce minsk group to coordinate more effectively their action with the eu special representative for south caucasus in order to move forward with negotiations’.
mr president, i too have some qualms about the onesta report, despite having voted for it. i have great respect for the rapporteur, who is a truly nice man and has helped me on many occasions. however, my concern is over how the rules will be interpreted by a partisan president of parliament such as our current president, who does not seem to understand the concept of free speech and is very authoritarian in the way in which he deals with members of the house. at the solemn sitting in homage to the victims of terrorism held in this house in march 2005 he wisely counselled us not to use such terrible events to push political messages, and then did so himself. therefore, how will he police the new rules in this house?
in writing. i voted for this report. it is an indictment of the conduct of a minority of members that this report is even necessary.
in writing. i am in favour of much of the measures in this report, though am firmly of the view that parliament should have an individual vote on changes to our procedures, where this one vote covered a number of points in one. on these grounds i abstained, though welcome the adoption of the report as a whole, as it is clear that, for one example, a number of members have taken advantage of our pretty lax rules to date.
in writing. the british conservative delegation is content to endorse the content of most of mrs vlasto's report but has decided to abstain because of the wording of paragraph 22. we believe that tax competition is beneficial and does not constitute illegal state aid; we do not favour the creation of a common, consolidated corporate tax base. nevertheless, we congratulate mrs vlasto and restate our commitment to the creation of an environment that encourages small businesses to flourish.
in writing. i welcome this report on the implementation of the european charter for small and micro-enterprises. the focus of the charter should be kept and the participation of these enterprises in various eu programmes further encouraged.
in writing. the reform is essential. however, the collateral damage of this reform should not be felt by small, vulnerable acp economies with whom we have a very special relationship. african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries rightly feel that they have been abandoned and betrayed by what has been agreed in the council. what has been proposed by parliament today is equally unsatisfactory and for this reason i voted against the resolution. parliament has today voted for a delay in the implementation of the everything but arms (eba) agreement. such a move would seriously limit the promise of an initiative designed to provide least developed countries with duty-free and quota-free access to the eu's sugar markets. i call upon the council to honour its commitment to eba by implementing no delay or safeguard mechanisms. we now must look to the future and make sure we provide acp countries with adequate financial support for their restructuring. compensation amounting to eur 7.5 billion has been offered to european farmers, whereas so far the acp has only eur 40 million. today, parliament agreed that the commission's estimates of acp needs of eur 200 million must be met with new and fresh funding. i hope this will be listened to.
in writing. i welcome the decision taken by parliament today to endorse the much-needed reform of the eu sugar regime. this reform will improve the competitiveness of the eu sugar sector by removing the artificial supports to production that have encouraged overproduction and dumping of subsidised eu sugar on world markets at prices often below the cost of production. to this end i voted in favour of ending trade-distorting eu export subsidies at the latest by 2013. these subsidies depress world market prices, have an adverse affect on the ability of developing countries to trade and contradict the union's own development policy objectives. i also voted to ensure that the eu honours its commitments to some of the poorest countries in the world to allow duty-free and quota-free access from 2009 to our markets for their sugar through the everything-but-arms initiative. there should be no further delays and no restrictions as an incentive to these countries to develop their infant industries. i regret that no new money has yet been agreed to help producers in the 18 acp sugar protocol countries in view of the generous financial package available as part of this reform to eu producers.
in writing. we very much welcome the reform of the sugar regime, but there are many parts of this report drawn up for parliament by its committee on agriculture and rural development for which i will not be voting. the sugar regime had been in need of reform for at least 15 years when the court of auditors carried out an extensive study on the sugar regime (special report 4/91) and concluded that the system suffered from oversupply and inefficient production patterns and that it was not budget neutral. . i cannot accept the call for the 'introduction of modifications'. we need radical overhaul, not just modifications. i cannot vote for lesser price cuts, increased compensation, and less quota cuts than proposed by the commission. i will not vote for structural or social cohesion policy instruments to be used to cushion sugar farmers. large amounts of cap funds are already available for eu farmers. i agree that we need to control imports from lesser developed countries (ldcs) and guard against triangular trade, but we are talking tiny amounts here: 125 000 tonnes from ldcs. eu sugar production is around 17.4 million tonnes. why are we focusing so much on ldc imports here? market imbalance is not going to come from ldc imports.
in writing. the reform of the eu sugar regime will require a great deal of restructuring by eu producers and farmers, as well as by farmers in the sugar protocol countries, whose livelihoods have been structured by trade with the eu for over 40 years. whilst necessary compensation and support schemes are available to eu farmers as part of a generous financial package, i regret that no new and fresh money has yet been agreed to help producers in the 18 acp sugar protocol countries. i believe that the eu has a duty to provide adequate funds for restructuring assistance to these countries under the financial perspectives, above and beyond the 40 million euros committed so far for 2006. i therefore voted in favour of an amendment to enshrine eu assistance to the acp countries within the direct support proposal. i believe the commission proposals for the new financial perspective, allowing for an amount of 190 million euros per year to help acp producers adjust to the sugar reform, are the basis for a more acceptable adjustment scheme for our acp trading partners.
in writing. the british conservative delegation voted against this report because its main recommendations do not serve the interests of efficient uk sugar producers, nor would they, in our view, bring about the reduction in eu sugar production needed to avoid linear quota cuts in future. it is unfair that our growers, who tend to produce more than 300 tonnes per year, should be punished for their efficiency by receiving only 50% compensation. this figure is considerably lower than that proposed by both the commission and council. furthermore, the idea that member states may retain an unspecified amount of their subsidies linked to production flies in the face of the recent cap reform and would allow less efficient producers to maintain overall production at an unsustainable level. however, we support the report's direction in terms of increasing the energy crops premium and increasing the maximum guaranteed area for such production so as to encourage the promotion of biofuels.
in writing. i voted for this resolution. i strongly condemn the continuing abuse of the human rights of innocent citizens on a massive scale in chechnya. democratic, human rights and governance aspects must be an integral part of the eu's policy for cooperation with russia. a russia characterised by democracy, rule of law and respect for human rights is a russia that is more attractive to foreign investment. it is also a neighbour that is more stable and more predictable.
in writing. i was glad to support this resolution and the work of my group colleague bart staes who i know has been working closely with the chechen community. the situation in chechnya can be ameliorated by eu involvement, and this motion contains ideas which we must ensure are taken forward.
mr president, having listened to the debate yesterday on this subject, i decided i had to say something about the bizarre concept of democracy that some members in this place and the commission have. i heard it said that in the referenda so far, more people have voted ‘yes’ than ‘no’ across all countries and that therefore we should be going ahead with this wonderful constitution. as a group of my very wise constituents from northampton and daventry said to me during the general election in the uk last year, in england my party – the conservatives – polled more votes than the labour party or the liberal democrats. so, maybe, using this wonderful eurocrat vision of democracy, we should be the ones in power. democracy is about following the democratic wishes of the people and ensuring individuals have the power to choose the direction in which they would like their local council, parliament or europe to go. it is not about stripping power from people, ignoring their views and giving it to a political class that believes it knows best. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. let the people decide the treaties can be amended only by unanimity. the proposed constitution has been rejected by 55 % of the voters in france and 62 % in the netherlands. their verdict must be respected. therefore the proposed constitution is dead according to the rules adopted unanimously among the member states of the eu. the next meeting in the european council must accordingly declare the draft text dead; reflect on the no votes; re-read the questions from the laeken declaration and go back to first principles. the sine qua non is to decide whether treaties require popular approval. we believe that treaties have to be adopted by referendum in all member states where it is legally possible. the referendums should if possible be held on the same date. supporters and opponents of the constitution should be asked to produce a joint text for debate about our possible futures. it can include joint amendments on transparency and democratic procedures where the working group may agree. it will certainly include different proposals for catalogues of competences where members will disagree. after a year of debate, two alternatives should be placed before the national electorates: on the one hand a renewed constitution; on the other a co-operation agreement among european democracies. the new directly elected convention must work in public in working groups and plenary meetings for a year. each chapter of the existing treaties will have to have a special working group to allow drastic simplification of the existing complicated texts. finally, the plenary of the convention may adopt two different proposals, a draft constitution and a draft cooperation agreement and then ask the voters what they prefer. when we have the peoples' verdict the member states can then meet in a formal intergovernmental conference and take the necessary decisions to be adopted formally according to the demands in the national constitutions. if one or two member states reject the drafts, a unanimous solution will have to be found in respect of the agreed playing rules for treaty changes. we, the minority in the european parliaments constitutional committee and the sos democracy inter group in the european parliament, hope and believe that the peoples of most states will see no need for a constitution beyond their own national constitutions. we expect supporters of the constitution to show the same respect for democracy. our alternative may be based on seven broad proposals 1) cooperation agreement instead of constitution the constitution is dead. instead of a complicated constitution and the nice treaty with priority over national constitutions, we want a cooperation agreement with no more than 50 articles. countries that don't wish to join the cooperation agreement can choose a free trade agreement instead. the european council should establish a working group with equal numbers of supporters and opponents of the constitution in order to present a proposal of rules which is flexible enough to let them unite instead of divide europe, as we have seen the constitution do. 2) openness and transparency openness and full access to documents will be the main rule. any exceptions shall be approved with 75 % support. the ombudsman, the court of auditors and the eu-parliament shall be able to control all expenditures. 3) direct elections decision makers shall be directly accountable through the ballot box to those who must abide by their decisions in each country. 4) 75 % majority in the council with the right to veto laws should be adopted with unanimity or by a 75 % majority among member states and simple majority in the eu-parliament. there should be the opportunity for veto, when a national parliament votes against a proposal for eu-law and requests the prime minister to bring up the case at the next summit. 5) bottom-up subsidiarity the subsidiarity principle should be controlled by the national parliaments. the existing 100,000 pages of legislation must be revised critically, and the main part must be eliminated or sent back to the member states. 6) greater flexibility and minimum conditions laws should be approved as a common set of minimum standards which gives the member states more flexibility and possibility to have a higher level of protection of security, health, environment, working conditions, social conditions and consumer protection. we should prefer mutual recognition to total harmonisation. 7) enhanced cooperation instead of compulsory union foreign and security policy, the euro cooperation and legal cooperation should not be an obligatory part of the cooperation but can be transferred to an enhanced cooperation if desired by the individual countries. defence should be completely separated from the union.
in writing. i welcome this report which clarifies, after the french 'no' to the constitution, where we are in terms of future constitutional reforms of the eu. the rapporteurs are right to note that there are a number of options available to the union, ranging from abandoning the constitutional project altogether, continuing to try to ratify the present text unamended, seeking to clarify or add to the present text, restructuring or modifying the text or embarking upon a complete rewrite. no conclusions should be reached on these options until the conclusion of the period of reflection, which should be in the second half of 2007.
in writing. the draft constitution was just not the way forward for europe, so attempts to rehabilitate it are not welcomed. i would be the first to say that the eu needs a new way of working, and indeed a new constitutino, but not the flawed text so comprehensively rejected by the voters of the netherlands and france. we need to take the eu back to first principles and establish what it is for, where it adds value and where indeed it does not. across the eu, the institutions and practices of the eu find little favour in the eyes of our electorate, and we cannot blame them, we must alter our ways of working. if the eu did not exist we would need to invent one, but not under the draft constitution and not in its current form.
in writing. i voted against this report because i am wholly opposed to any initiative to resurrect the european constitution. the welcome failure of the constitution should have presented an opportunity for genuine reflection by the leaders of the european nations on the nature and direction of the european union. certainly the british people, and the people of many other countries, do not wish to subsume their nationhood into some state called europe. many share the british conservative vision of an eu that is a loose community of sovereign nations, focused on the single market and cooperating closely in other areas where there is real added value. i note with concern the determination of the euro-integrationists to reintroduce a european constitution by 2009, to spend more public money on propaganda campaigns to support this objective, and to introduce geographical and political limitations on the eu.
in writing. i have voted against amendment 26, 2nd part. this should not be taken to indicate that i am against a europe-wide consultative referendum. in fact, i am very much in favour of that. however, all the academic and practical experience of referenda indicates that they should not be held on the same day as elections to a representative assembly or parliament.
mr president, it is well known that this parliament struggles to communicate with the people it supposedly represents. i recently talked to a group about how best to solve that problem and they told me that, in general, politicians were seen to be boring, grey and used language that is completely out of date. they kindly made the following suggestion, using the words of a contemporary recording artist, tony hatch, on how to make the european neighbourhood policy better understood. they said: ‘neighbours, everybody needs good neighbours; just a friendly wave each morning helps to make a better day. neighbours need to get to know each other; next door is only a footstep away. neighbours, everybody needs good neighbours; with a little understanding you can find the perfect blend. neighbours should be there for one another; that’s when good neighbours become good friends.’ for all those that know the work of tony hatch, they would be very proud of the fact that this was read out here today.
in writing. i welcome this report. the european neighbourhood policy is a key strategy for the enlarged eu for establishing structured relations with all its new eastern and southern neighbours, the aim of defending and affirming the common values of democracy, respect for human rights and the development of common policies
in writing. i myself have seen ni variuos countries the eu neighbourhood policy in action, and it is vital that this policy area be maintained so that our area of democracy and freedom can be extended. the eu is more outward looking than it is often given credit for, and while the past years have seen internal preoccupations cliaming the most headlines, most of the achievements have been external, often behind the scenes. it is vital that these actions are continuted and i was pleased to support this resolution.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues fully support the principle of equal opportunities between men and women. we strongly believe that women as well as men have an important role to play in achieving the economic goals of the lisbon strategy which must be to secure long-term economic growth and high employment levels. however, we have abstained in this report as we believe the measures identified are so prescriptive that they would achieve little in the way of the desirable goals of improving the position of women in the day-to-day economic life of the member states of the eu. men and women require, above all, to work in societies where economic growth leads to more and better career and job opportunities, thus enabling the higher degree of social provision this report states it wishes to see.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, speaking as a longstanding friend of chile and peru, the fujimori extradition question is one of great interest to me. these two countries have very long memories, stretching back to the war of the pacific in the 19th century, in which peru lost arica and tacna to chile. thus it is that bilateral questions sometimes, regrettably, are coloured by the cloud of revanchism and regional rivalry. this house must emphasise that this can play no part in the decision regarding the request for fujimori’s extradition. it is also clear that it has been a longstanding political objective of mr toledo’s present government of peru to seek the return of former president fujimori from japan to face trial on charges of corruption and human rights violations during the long conflict with sendero luminoso and tupac amaru. indeed, mr toledo’s officials raised this matter with me personally in brussels last year during his state visit to belgium. they requested that the eu raise the matter with japan, and i agree with the previous speaker that we have been somewhat neglectful of this issue. it is also alleged that mr fujimori was elected president for the second time, in 2000, following a fraudulent vote. fujimori, as we all know, eventually fled into exile in japan in november 2000 after his security chief, vladimiro montesinos, was exposed as having bribed a congressman. fujimori then rediscovered his japanese nationality, something which under peruvian law would have forbidden him from standing for public office, particularly as president, under peru’s constitution in 1990. it is scandalous, therefore, that japan went along with this fiction. although this is now a matter for the chilean courts, extradition always has a political dimension between sovereign states, so i hope that the judges in chile will accept that mr fujimori has a very serious case to answer before his people, whom he let down so badly in the past.
author. – mr president, i believe these urgency debates are important for this house and for the european union. i believe they are worthy. however, as we discuss cambodia, i am struck by the fact that we have been here before, and that we have heard all this before. specifically, we have been here before on 13 january 2005, 10 march 2005 and 1 december 2005. will anybody take a bet with me that we will be here again in six months’ time? i am not saying that we should not have these debates. but i am saying that we should have our concern matched by action from the other eu institutions and the member states we serve. i would refer you to paragraph 4 of the resolution in particular. we are not without arms; we are not without pressure that we can exert. the cambodian government relies on the donor community for 50% of its annual expenditure. we must use that pressure more forcefully to achieve change, as opposed to just using warm words. this is not the west dictating to a developing nation how it should run itself; this is the european union expecting cambodia to honour the agreements it has already signed up to, and to live up to international standards of decency. we are willing to play our part in that process. in paragraph 12, we reiterate our call for an ad hoc delegation from this house to go to cambodia to see the problems for ourselves. let us start there. this motion for a resolution has the enthusiastic backing of my group and indeed my own backing. it contains a welter of information and worthy aims, but without more overt economic pressure from us, i fear that it will remain a shopping list never to be fulfilled.
it is an addition, mr president. one of the problems in cambodia is that it has something in common with belarus, whereby if you insult the prime minister of cambodia it is deemed to be a criminal offence, which is very unusual in the modern world. normally, an insult at worst is a civil offence and results in a fine or a defamation suit. in cambodia you go to prison, hence the reason why some of these individuals have been imprisoned. we wish to add the following text: ‘… and questions the need for defiling the office of the prime minister to be a criminal offence’.
i am very happy to accept the suggestion to change the word ‘defiling’ to ‘defamation’. that was my original intention. (applause)
in writing. i welcome this motion which addresses the important issue of how mainstreaming the needs of the disabled into development policy might be achieved and how issues such as stigma towards disabled people, treatment and care are being dealt with.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, a common foreign and security policy that promotes europe’s values in the world and brings peace and security to our neighbours is what liberals and democrats strive for. but it is what europe’s leaders are manifestly failing to provide. acting together, our union could have used its leverage to promote democracy and stability. instead, its policies have given tacit support to tyrannies like tunisia, egypt and syria. we never demanded that diplomacy depend on releasing democrats like egypt’s ayman nour; or, in asia, on the right to a free return to his country for opposition leader sam rainsy, now in exile while we fund the dictatorship of hun sen. mrs ferrero-waldner, mr solana, why are you surprised at the palestinian poll? the european union has peddled promises of democracy, peace and human rights in palestine while our development aid has fed al-fatah, whose members now burn images of one of our prime ministers and peace negotiations have got nowhere. far from being a key player, mr solana, the consequences of europe’s failure are plain for all to see. israel, undeterred, builds a wall around east jerusalem in violation of its roadmap obligations and international law. the palestinians, tired of slow progress and shameful social services, turn to hamas at the ballot box. and now the prognosis is worse than ever. after demanding democracy, some eu leaders talk of shunning one of the only democratically elected governments in the arab world! of course, hamas must renounce violence and commit to a two-state solution. but so must israel. as leila shahid, the general delegate for the palestinian authority said today: ‘it takes two to tango’. the commissioner has spoken of policies based on human rights, the rule of law and democratic principles, but where is the emphasis on those fine things when pragmatism devoid of principles is so often the order of the day? a global drive for peaceful conflict resolution would be a major counterweight to the heavy-handed us approach; it would assure europe’s security, prosperity and global repute; and it would also give us far greater leverage over micro-states like the maldives or the seychelles, whose governments abuse human rights despite being almost totally dependent on our aid and trade. that is why liberals and democrats believe that the time has come for an accountable, properly funded and values-driven european foreign policy. according to eurobarometer, it is a desire shared by 70% of our citizens. mr solana, liberals and democrats object to parliament’s views being ignored or disregarded on matters of global importance. we want to see less of you on television and more of you here in this chamber. and we are tired of council secrecy and its disregard for parliament’s right to prior consultation on policy priorities. those rights are enshrined in article 21 of the treaty and in the 1999 interinstitutional agreement. we are facing many grave challenges: to democratise our near neighbourhood, especially former soviet republics currently at the mercy of russia’s energy politics; to ensure that the elections in belarus are free and fair; and to ensure that the referendums in kosovo and montenegro do not end in violence. the role of foreign policy must not end there. i understand that selling arms to china is back on the council’s agenda, yet china has still not recanted the tiananmen square killings, nor released, after 16 years, all those jailed. so we demand an assurance from you, mr winkler, that the austrian presidency will not lift the union’s arms embargo. (applause) most pressing is the question of iran. the iaea board of governors meets tomorrow to decide whether to report iran to the security council. stopping iran building nuclear weapons must be our aim. that is why europe must commit to respect the iaea’s findings due in march. but making progress towards the disarmament of the current nuclear powers, in line with the commitments we have made, is the strongest and most convincing message we could possibly send. a europe which learns to use its muscle as a force for good is truly a force to be reckoned with. (applause)
mr president, yesterday marked the death of the 100th british serviceman killed in iraq. these brave men made the ultimate sacrifice of giving their lives for their country. but they were betrayed. they were sent to war on the basis of the lies and fantasies of prime minister tony blair. this happened for one simple reason: mr blair and the labour government have no conception of what constitutes the british national interest. now mr blair wants to embroil the british nation in yet another lie and fantasy. that lie is that britain’s national interest lies in something called a european common foreign policy. yesterday also marked another significant event. in london, mr javier solana spoke on the palestinian issue on behalf of the european union. he did so in the de facto role of the european foreign minister. this is despite the fact that the european common foreign policy should be dead and buried because of the rejection of the european constitution. this is a clear signal that the labour government is surrendering control of foreign policy to the european union. chancellor bismarck once famously remarked that the whole of the balkans were not worth the bones of a single pomeranian grenadier. well, the whole of the european common foreign policy and the planned european army is not worth the bones of one single british serviceman or woman.
mr president, when i hear the litany of crises and problems that confront us, i am alarmed that so many think that the answer to these problems is more european union. the eu’s foreign policy ambitions and pretensions now reach into every area, from defence to immigration to energy supply, and we see few positive results from this. i would prefer a more modest approach, with the european union focusing only on those areas were it can genuinely add practical value through humanitarian and development assistance, electoral observation and the like. i would also say that in these dangerous times when new forces have emerged that threaten the very nature of our free societies, we need more solidarity among the democracies and less eu self promotion. the lessons of recent years show that where the western democracies are divided, their interests are damaged. the enemies of democracy will exploit these divisions for their own purposes. i have just returned from participating in the electoral observation mission in the palestine authority areas and east jerusalem. the election results were a cry from the streets. you rightly say that the precise makeup of the new government of the palestine authority areas will not be clear for some time, but it will undoubtedly reflect the new-found power of hamas. it is indeed vital that we do not provide support to that government unless it forsakes violence, recognises the right of israel to exist and positively engages in the peace process. in the past i have expressed concern about the nature of eu financing and the adequacy of safeguards to prevent misuse of our funds. these concerns will now multiply. not only must we ensure that financial assistance is transparent and cannot be used to support terrorism and extremism: there is also a crying need to ensure that our money is used more effectively so that it is of direct benefit to the palestinian people. finally, let us put more effort into ensuring that there is no difference in approach between the europeans and the united states. we have a common interest in peace and stability in the middle east. (the president cut off the speaker)
chairman of the european parliament’s observation mission. – mr president, it was my privilege to be the chairman once again of the largest elected observation mission to the elections in palestine: that of the european parliament. at the outset i would like to thank the other 26 members of the european parliament on the delegation for their work, particularly my deputy chairman, mrs napoletano, and, of course mrs de keyser, in her capacity as chief observer of the european union’s team. i would also like to thank the staff of the european parliament who came with us and who did an outstanding job in very difficult circumstances. last week on the streets of palestine we heard the clamour for choice and change. we heard the noise of democracy. we found out, as one of my colleagues put it, that the process was perfect. voters went freely to the polls, men, women, young and old. the polling stations, usually in schools and administered by teachers, were efficient and well organised. by and large the israeli forces kept out of the way. the process was perfect and there is no doubt that the result reflected the wish of the people, but the product more reflects their despair of fatah than their love of hamas. indeed, the hamas people we met were not very loveable. not just in palestine, but elsewhere in the arab world – including in egypt, where the muslim brotherhood did so well in november and december; in the moroccan parliamentary elections to come – we are about to see the emergence of fundamentalist islamist politics across the arab world, an arab world of 250 million people. that is the challenge to all our institutions. we must work together, because in my view, although we imparted the process of democracy, we did not impart the values of democracy that we are so used to in the european union. democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for the protection of minorities: these are the values we need to impart.
madam president, hamas is evil: it is responsible for some of the most vile terrorist attacks ever witnessed. the fact that it now has attracted a democratic mandate does not alter or dilute its terrorist persona. coming from northern ireland, i can speak from an experience of a like terrorist organisation – the ira – also securing an electoral base. there, fundamental mistakes were made in the hope of encouraging them away from the paths of terror. the values of democracy were distorted, unwarranted concession after concession was made, but as each was pocketed, new demands appeared. that is how terrorist organisations think and work, as they fight their long, multi-faceted war. i therefore urge that a firm and resolute stand be taken, with no fudging and no budging from the principle that no aid can flow from the eu to an authority run by the terrorists of hamas. bend that rule and we and democracy will be the losers.
madam president, in the past weeks we have seen the cycle of contrasts and contradictions that has come to characterise the eu’s relationship with the middle east. we call for legitimacy and transparency from our partners, yet we suppress the truth when it legally obliges us to act. we facilitate democratic elections in palestine, yet we question the people’s voice when we hear it. we aid the corrupt fatah for years, yet within days we doubt the stated humanitarian intentions of the participants of the coming new palestinian authority. we doubt the new palestinian authority’s wish to build bridges of confidence and cooperation, yet we overlook israel’s continued construction of the separation barrier. we rightly fund democratic institutions in palestine, yet we impede the right to self determination of the people annexed in east jerusalem. we rightly call on hamas to renounce violence or face consequences, yet stand by while the israeli army shoots innocent children in gaza and ramallah with no consequence. we rightly call for hamas to recognise israel, yet stay silent while israel flouts international laws. fundamentally, palestinians ask: is the eu about democracy or suppression? is the eu about bridges or barriers? is the eu about respect or defiance of international law? hamas’ decision to swap bullets for ballots potentially marks a strategic shift that could lead to talks with israel. the eu must match that shift and demonstrate the crucial equality and equity required to the creation of a palestinian state, living in peace with israel.
madam president, i had the deepest misgivings about allowing an unreformed hamas to run candidates for the palestinian elections. perhaps the calculation of mr bush and others was that hamas would not win, or that it would significantly modify its rhetoric and policies if brought into the electoral process. i beg to differ. hamas remains a terrorist organisation with links to the muslim brotherhood and hezbollah. it is committed to the extermination of israel and the establishment of an islamic state with jerusalem as its capital. indeed, its charter suggests it is committed to global jihad, including using suicide bombers and establishing a theocracy and an islamic caliphate everywhere. clearly, if it held these views anywhere in an eu member state, it would have been banned as a political party. i have always criticised the rampant corruption under chairman arafat and tried to investigate this in the last parliament, but regrettably my working group findings were never debated in plenary. we now see a massive protest vote by ordinary palestinians. nevertheless, it is clear that an organisation banned as a terrorist organisation, such as hamas, cannot be a legitimate interlocutor for the eu, nor receive a penny of our taxpayers’ money until it forswears violence and recognises the state of israel. i have always supported the security fence on the basis that it has saved human lives from the evil of suicide bombers. it has, regrettably, truncated communities, but it does not constitute the final border of a future palestinian state. nevertheless, a hamas victory will make a land-for-peace deal much more difficult to realise. also, the final settlement of the east jerusalem question, as well as the right of return questions, will be almost impossible with hamas in government for the palestinian authority.
author. – mr president, the oral question includes six specific questions to which i hope the president-in-office will respond. however, there is also an equally important seventh question: it is the old issue about national declarations. will the council actually sit down and discuss this issue with parliament, so that we can seek a common objective? that is the one aspect in this old debate that has been missing since we voted on the discharge in this chamber. at the time, we made the recommendations which this oral question refers to. we asked the member states to get their house in order, to give us an assurance that the control systems they were putting in place were adequate and sufficient and that when eu money was being spent, it was being spent correctly. the problem we have is that when the court of auditors reports every year and cannot give a positive statement of assurance, it is because of problems within the member states. unless we are going to have a commission official monitoring just about every item of european expenditure in the member states, we are never going to solve the problem. it is incumbent upon the member states to help us ensure that european taxpayers’ money is being spent correctly. i have to thank commissioner kallas in particular for the way he has encouraged parliament by persuading the commission to take on board those recommendations and to produce the roadmap towards getting a positive statement of assurance. in that process, we had a two-day hearing organised by the commission and the previous presidency on how this could or could not be achieved. i attended that hearing on both days. i was saddened at the negativity of some member states who just wanted to continue with the status quo. they claimed nothing was wrong and nothing needed to be changed. two things were clear from that hearing: there might have been other minor problems, but there were two major problems. the first major problem was that the supreme audit institutions of the member states feared that somehow or other this was a takeover by the european court of auditors. hopefully that fear has been allayed. i attended the annual gathering of the supreme audit institutions along with the european court of auditors in stockholm, and i am led to believe that there is an acceptance that it was not the intention. i am also led to believe that the supreme audit institutions are prepared to play their part in helping us to solve this problem. the other major problem that occurred from that two-day hearing, and probably the biggest one, was the fact that we had asked for a political signature from the member states to actually give these national declarations. for some member states, such as the netherlands, that is not a problem. this task falls on the minister, and no one else would argue that it should be anybody else. however, for a lot of member states it was a major problem. on reflection, i have to say that if we had left out the words ‘political signature’ in our discharge report we may not have scared the council as much as we did. we are now in a situation where we need to come to an agreement with the council on how to get national declarations that can actually satisfy not only the european court of auditors, but the commission and the member states themselves, to ensure that we can show european taxpayers that their money is being spent correctly. i would hope that the president-in-office gives us clear answers to the six questions listed within the oral question and that he does not give us the answers that ecofin gave us on 8 november 2005. quite frankly, that was not leading us forward. i should also like him to answer the seventh question, which i shall put orally: will the council sit down with parliament to discuss this matter in the hope that we can get a resolution to it? (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – national management declarations! mr president, i would like to ask mr kallas, will these be like the eu’s own accounts, in which the directors-general of the commission sign off their respective departments with reservations, because they have not got a clue where the money has gone? because if it is so, it strikes me as a little like trying to repair a severed artery with a band aid: too little too late. as everybody knows, i do not believe in the european union; i regard it as an enemy of democracy, and i approach this from an opposite direction. no nation should be pouring taxpayers’ money into a corrupt system. after 11 long years in which the eu’s accounts have been rejected by its own auditors, this weak-kneed attempt to change the system seems to me like pouring huge amounts of gold dust through a sieve, thinking ‘oh, perhaps we better try and stuff up a few of the holes’. no one thinks about the wisdom of pouring the dust through the sieve in the first place and quite simply the way to stop the dust being lost is to stop pouring. therefore i call on the members here present to go back to their various countries and make urgent representations to their own governments to pull the plug. simply stop paying this monstrous bureaucratic dictatorship, which has no respect for either the governments or the people of europe. we have a saying in my country: ‘charity begins at home’. save the money you are currently wasting on the eu, a large part of which is lost simply by fraud and corruption anyway.
mr president, i should like to make a point of order under rule 145. i am afraid that there seems to be a misunderstanding of exactly what we are here for. i thought we were talking about the management directions and the reason we were asking for these directions to come in was because money was going missing. as a member of the committee on budgetary control, my role has always been to look into where the money has been lost or misused and where mistakes have been made – the phrase that mr kallas has just used. i was working entirely on the assumption that the reason we were calling for these declarations was that the member states would look into where the waste and fraud had come and, maybe, even corruption. it was under those terms that i was asking to express my opinions in my speech.
mr president, on a point of order under rule 108, this was an oral question with six questions; i added a seventh question verbally this evening, and we have not had an answer to a single one of them. could the presidency at least give us those answers in writing, please?
mr president, i would like to bring to the attention of the house a report this week that three of the world’s largest oil companies no longer directly own petrol filling stations in northern ireland. they left, it seems, as a result of ongoing problems of crossborder fuel smuggling and laundering. last year, this parliament roundly condemned sinn féin – the ira – for its continuing criminal activities. clearly the tens of millions of pounds sterling it is estimated are being taken annually from its illegal trade in laundered fuel is enough to ensure that the political representatives remain indifferent to such criticism. the eighth report of the independent monitoring commission published today states that ira members are still heavily involved in fuel smuggling, and that the level of smuggling has remained more or less constant. so much for sinn féin’s pretence to be a normal political party. it is appalling to think that in 2006, in a european union which prides itself on its commitment both to freedom of trade and freedom of movement, a member state can be plagued by an organisation so vicious that even the world’s biggest oil companies cannot survive its menace. i trust this parliament will continue to condemn those who fail to share our commitment to fundamental freedoms.
mr president, there have been reports recently in the british press about a conference held in salzburg hosted by the austrian presidency. the purpose apparently was to discuss how europe might re-engage with its citizens. this event happened to coincide more or less with the 250th anniversary of the birth of the immortal and glorious wolfgang amadeus mozart. mozart was presented at this conference as some kind of proto-european federalist, because of nothing more than the fact that in his short career he travelled extensively in europe. however, what were mozart’s political views, if any? on hearing the news of britain’s relief of gibraltar and the victory over the french navy at trincomalee, he wrote to his father, leopold: ‘indeed, i have heard about england’s victories and i am greatly delighted too, for you know that i am out-and-out englishman’. did the austrian presidency know that it was celebrating the birth of a self-proclaimed englishman?
mr president, last friday northern ireland suffered the double blow of the loss of two factories, both the result of an inability to compete with cheap imports. ‘farm-fed chickens’, a long-standing poultry factory in coleraine announced its closure with 350 job losses, and ‘barber threads’ in lisburn was a casualty with 85 job losses in the textile sector. cheap imports are now the scourge of eu manufacturing and processing industries. with commissioner mandelson’s approach at the wto, it seems the commission wants to rush further down this road of destruction. in the name of those being driven from employment right across europe, i call for a root and branch reassessment of our approach to cheap imports, so that the social economic consequences are properly considered. we cannot go on haemorrhaging indigenous jobs in the pursuit of what really is an unacceptable dogma.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, it is obviously important we are having this debate today, because on 1 january, the latest step down to 50 grams for the reserve sector took place, and we are awaiting the commission’s study – hopefully to be published in the summer – on accomplishing the internal market by 2009. there are great challenges facing the postal sector, but also great opportunities. post has to keep up with developments elsewhere, not least the switch from consumer-to-consumer business to business and consumer, but also as regards the single market. it is a condemnation of the european union that 13 years after the completion of the single market, there are huge obstacles to cross-border postal activity, the work of the expanding home-shopping market and indeed for newspaper and magazine publishers. in order for this process to work properly, we have to have transparency, clarity, certainty and the clear involvement of postal customers and consumers. we recognise of course that each postal market is unique, but that cannot excuse serious regulatory asymmetry leading to serious market distortions. we have to have a structure whereby national regulatory authorities must work together. we have to have greater clarity and transparency in the authorisation process and this is one area on which the commission must focus. we need member states to adopt and implement the quality of service standards devised by cen so that we can compare like with like. we must ensure that postal customers, small as well as large, are involved in this whole process. ultimately the success or failure of this venture will depend on us being able to satisfy people that our little old mothers living in isolated places are still going to get a universal service. answer that and this process will be successful.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, we have seen the proposed constitution for europe rejected by the french and dutch people. the computer-implemented inventions and port services directives were also rejected. despite these rejections, the drive towards harmonisation goes relentlessly onwards, even when it has nothing to do with trade or eu efficiency and is bad for citizens. so here it is, another second-class act, the postal directive. this is none of the eu’s business, and i advise the eu to stay out of it. the postal directive seeks to impose value added tax on postage at a time when letter writing is under great competition from e-mail. the uk does not want it! the british post office is now 371 years old, and it was the british in 1840 who brought out the first postage stamp, bearing the head of queen victoria. now the eu wants to stamp its dead hand of inefficiency on it. a high watermark of philatelic interference, perforated only by ignorance of british tradition and a wish to kill letter writing stone dead. from penny black to eu attack in 166 years! is this progress? in 2004 the postmaster general stated categorically that the british government did not want vat on stamps. the royal mail told me this very week that it does not want it, as it would be bad for small businesses, charities and customers. the british people do not want it. they are already paying for the cost of the eu’s common agricultural policy. what would stanley gibbons have said from the strand in london if he had still been alive? i suggest he would have published a book with pictures of meps who monkey with british postal traditions entitled ‘stanley stamps gibbon catalogue’. when ukip vote on this report, it will vote in accordance with the wishes of uk citizens. i hope british meps stick up for britain. the people will watch as europhiles submit their nations to another excessive stamp of eu authority. thank you, mr president, and good luck to the interpreters!
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, the committee on industry, research and energy applauds the commission’s initiative to deregulate and liberalise package sizes. my committee considers that a free market works in the best interests of the consumer. we were persuaded to accept the commission’s proposal to make exceptions for alcoholic beverages, soluble coffee, white sugar – we added brown sugar for consistency – and for aerosols. in the interests of consistency, we also proposed a regulated size for spirits bottles of 750 cl, which was the widely accepted size of wine bottles. it verges on the misleading to have 750 cl the standard bottle for wine and 700 cl the standard bottle for spirits. therefore, we regret that this proposal was rejected by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. we appreciate that the committee on the internal market and its very conscientious rapporteur, my good friend mr toubon, have considered these matters very thoroughly. however, we in the committee on industry are disappointed to see proposals from that committee to introduce fixed, harmonised, mandatory sizes on a whole range of staple products which have not previously been so harmonised. we have labelling requirements. we prohibit misleading advertising. eu legislation requires unit pricing so that the price for a standard amount must be displayed, and this helps consumers to compare prices fairly. the ability to decide freely on package sizes is in the interests of the smaller business, the new entrant, the innovative enterprise and, therefore, also in the interests of the consumer. there is nothing to stop marketing of traditional sizes; there is nothing to stop the use of traditional measures such as pints and pounds. the commission proposal did not even mention milk. nothing needed to change from the status quo. the committee on industry suggests that parliament support the commission’s praiseworthy attempt to reduce unnecessary regulation and vote against the committee on the internal market’s proposed extension of mandatory sizes to all these extra products.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate mr toubon on the work he has done and particularly to commend his approach, which has made the committee on the internal market and consumer protection the first committee in parliament to commission an impact assessment where we have chosen – in this case in the interests of consumers – to add to the burden of regulation that the commission has proposed. that report is available to colleagues. it indicated that despite the fact that there would be more complexity, the economic analysis demonstrated that the competitive effects were comparatively small and accepted the view of the rapporteur that there were consumer benefits to offset it. there will be further discussions about it, but nevertheless i would not want this to go by without congratulating the commission overall for the direction in which it is trying to take this. there is a vast range of other products apart from the exemptions that are included in this praiseworthy proposal, and we should not forget that when talking about some of the specific issues. as the commissioner is well aware, in my own country, the united kingdom, there has been a certain amount of entirely misleading controversy caused in the press about this proposal. i shall confine myself to commenting on that for the record this evening. first of all, on the assumption that we agree that drinking milk should be included, it is obviously extremely important that the traditional bottle sizes in which milk is delivered in the uk are fully protected. i am sure colleagues will accept that fully and thus deal with any issues about the loss of the traditional british ‘pinta’. secondly, but more fundamentally, bread is a commodity that is regulated nationally under many specific regulations. in the uk, we consume very large amounts of pre-packed sliced bread and i think there is a very strong argument for exempting that from the regulation altogether and allowing britain to sustain its current regulated pack sizes for this very important consumer commodity.
i welcome this report on rules of nominal quantities for pre-packaged products. i am in favour of retaining specific quantities for staple foods as i believe it is important to maintain nominal quantities in the interest of the british consumer. the report preserves essential parts of existing legislation and, in particular, removes the unjustified attempt by the commission to abolish fixed sizes within 20 years. given the complexity of ‘unit pricing’, such protection laws will ensure that the current sale of the british pint of milk is not put at risk. contrary to inaccurate eurosceptic scare-stories that have caused much controversy amongst consumers, british consumer choice is protected.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank you and the honourable members for being here this early morning. thank you for giving me the opportunity to present to you the white paper on a european communication policy adopted by the commission at its meeting yesterday. this is not the first time i have spoken about the white paper in this house. i first announced it during the debate on the herrero report, which has been an important reference for my subsequent work. during the preparation stages for the white paper i regularly informed the european parliament about my ideas, meeting with the different political groups, committees etc., and i am sure that several of you will find the key concepts and messages of the white paper quite familiar. the feedback and encouragement i have received make me believe that i will continue to find, in this house, the most committed and precious ally when it comes to communication. communication is first and foremost a matter of democracy. people have a right to know what the european union does and what it stands for, and as citizens they have a right to fully participate in the european project. this is the key message of the white paper. there is a worrying gap between the european union and its citizens. seven out of ten interviewed in eurobarometer polls say that they know little or nothing about the european union. more than half feel that their voice does not count when it comes to european issues. trust in the european institutions is falling and so is the number of those who believe that europe brings benefits to them or their countries. the perception of a communication gap between the european union and its citizens is not new. it has been a subject of discussion in eu circles at least since the referendums that preceded the entry into force of the maastricht treaty in 1992. in this respect recent referendums on the constitutional treaty have been a harsh wake-up call. bridging the gap between the european union and its citizens has become more urgent than ever. to move forward, the european project needs to be anchored in people’s wishes and expectations. it must belong to citizens, not just to a small elite based in brussels, or in a couple of big european capitals. the white paper is the commission’s proposal to respond to this challenge and to lay the foundation of a european union communication policy. what should the main purpose of a european communication policy be? the white paper argues for developing a working european public sphere, where the european debate can unfold and citizens can participate. this is a concept that the european parliament embraced some time ago, and it is now central to the commission’s vision of a communication policy. the white paper underlines the importance of developing a true european political culture, with pan-european political groups, pan-european media and fora or meeting places where citizens can meet and discuss issues of common interest. however, i shall clarify immediately that all of this is not to replace or diminish the role of national, regional or local levels of political structures and media activity; to the contrary, it complements them. probably the most urgent thing that is needed to bring about a european political culture is to make sure that european issues are reflected in national, regional and local debates. the development of a european public sphere is of course a very far-reaching project and it will take time. it goes well beyond the remit of the commission. the role of the european parliament will be crucial in this respect, but we know that we will only succeed if all those involved – and member states, in the first place – are ready to commit and take responsibility. therefore, the white paper is a call to action by all eu institutions, by the european union governments and political parties, by civil society and the media in all eu countries. it proposes that we start work in five main areas: first by defining common principles. an eu communication policy must be based on the fundamental recognition that all eu citizens have certain rights, for example, the right to fair and full information about the european union; the right to hear the full range of views about the eu; and the right to have their voices heard by policy makers. the white paper proposes that these principles be enshrined in a framework document – a charter or perhaps a code of conduct – to which all the key players would commit themselves on a voluntary basis to agree on the principles for communication. we need those common principles to guide our common action and to give credibility and legitimacy to our communication activities; to make clear that eu communication is not about selling europe or producing propaganda, it is about enhancing our democracy. it is a tool for citizens to assess whether or not their rights are respected. the second work area the white paper proposes is empowering citizens. how can an eu communication policy contribute to that? the white paper identifies three ways forward: to work more together on civic education, to connect citizens with each other and to connect the citizens with the institutions. civic education is a national or regional responsibility, but there is a european added value. the eu can help to ensure exchange of best practice and facilitate the development of common educational tools, so that the european dimension is better addressed. i meet this all the time when i travel to member states. teachers and all those involved in these activities say ‘do we really have to reinvent the wheel? could we not have a better exchange of practices or material or experience?’ new forums for public discussion on european issues are essential for building mutual trust, respect and willingness to work together towards common objectives. also, good two-way communication between the citizens and public institutions is essential in a healthy democracy. the present drive to make the eu institutions more responsive, open and accessible needs to continue to be strengthened. the third area in which the paper proposes working concerns the media and new technologies. the media are key players in communication policy and it is vital that public institutions at all levels of governance find innovative ways of working with the national, regional and local media. we also need to discuss together how to ensure that all views are fairly represented in these debates and how we can provide citizens with full, fair and factual information through a wide range of channels, not only the press, radio and television but also the internet. one of the proposals is also, as you have seen from the media coverage already, is that we should upgrade our existing europe by satellite – an interinstitutional service – and, for example, regional tv, which belongs to the users of the ebs service. the fourth working area is understanding public opinion. that is a challenge for policy makers. they need to stay in tune with european public opinion as citizens’ views on any issue can vary quite dramatically from one country or region to another. the european commission has been a front-runner in developing modern tools, such as the eurobarometer surveys, for analysing public opinion. our white paper encourages debate on how we could improve our use of these tools to make more in-depth analysis and use that more efficiently to feed into the policy-making process. the fifth area for joint discussion is how to make the partnership work: we call it ‘how to do the job together’. how can eu governments cooperate more closely with one another and with brussels on informing and consulting citizens? how can the european union institutions work together more effectively and do more to decentralise their efforts? local and regional authorities are well placed to engage in a real dialogue with citizens. how best can they channel the view of local communities to the brussels policy makers? what more can political parties and ngos do to raise public awareness on european issues and stimulate public debate? the commission does not have ready-made answers to all these questions and we would not presume to lecture others involved as to what they should do. the white paper therefore launches a wide consultation process and invites all those involved to think hard about these questions and come forward with their own ideas. we have never had a public consultation on communicating europe. it is high time to do so if we are serious about putting citizens at the centre of our activities. i would like the european parliament to be our closest ally and supporter in this process. the structures for this cooperation already exist and we can build on them to better structure and coordinate our work. to conclude, i should like to quote the philosopher john dewey. he wrote ‘there is more than a verbal tie between the words common, community, and communication. try the experiment of communicating, with fullness and accuracy, some experience to another, especially if it be somewhat complicated, and you will find your own attitude towards your experience changing’. communication helps understanding, builds common values and creates communities. that is what the european union needs more than anything. thank you for your attention. i am looking forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – commissioner wallström, i thank you for your very interesting and well-communicated white paper this morning. on behalf of the ppe-de group, i very much welcome your white paper on a european communication policy. it comes at a time when the gap between europe and its citizens is widening. a sense of alienation from brussels pervades our electorate: alienation from its institutions and from politics in general. the poor electoral turnout in 2004 was sadly a clear reminder of the need for the eu to learn to communicate more with its citizens. however, it is not only a question of having more communication in europe: we need better communication. and in order to communicate better, europe also needs to listen more. european leaders have lost contact with their public and i agree with you, commissioner, when you say in your communication that citizens expect europe to offer them guarantees of prosperity, solidarity and security in the face of globalisation. our citizens are not worried about the nitty gritty details of institutional reform, they are worried about their jobs, they are worried about europe’s 20 million unemployed, so i certainly very much support your new approach which moves away from one-way communication to reinforced dialogue, from a brussels-based to a more decentralised approach, from – as you say in your communication – institution-centred to citizen-centred communication. i have certainly tried to do this in scotland, in my own constituency. i started an essay competition amongst schools to try to inspire interest amongst school pupils in european affairs. indeed tomorrow i am going to aberdeen to address council leaders on the financial perspective, and that is european communication in action. however, you must ensure that this white paper does not merely remain a consultation exercise, inconsequential and detached from the very same people whom it is trying to reach. we in europe tend to be very good at debating, and less good at delivering. our ideas must be followed by action. i wondered, when you mentioned the importance of the erasmus and citizens for europe programmes as a way of bridging the gap between the eu and its citizens, whether this is not slightly contradictory, given the fact that these programmes have actually suffered significant cuts in the 2006 budget. we may need better understanding and more details on how exactly you intend to finance this massive public relations strategy. communication, transparency, open access to documents and involvement in policy-making are not even fully developed amongst ourselves, the meps, the eu’s representatives. this house represents the very people we are trying to communicate with, but sadly this parliament is not consulted enough, or often when it is too late. it is often not listened to, it is often contradicted by the unaccountable and impenetrable workings of the council. that is why, commissioner, while welcoming very much your objectives and your efforts i urge you to consider adding another ‘d’ to your dialogue, debate and democracy plan. that would be ‘d’ for decision: a decision to act. (applause)
while listening to this debate yet again i am struck by the extent to which it is the wrong question we are asking, and hence coming up with the wrong answer. the commission’s communication strategy is worthy enough in aim, but i doubt it will in fact achieve much because the reality of the eu as a whole, not just the workings of the commission itself, are very far from ideal. the people are accordingly sceptical, it is not that they misunderstand the eu, they understand it only too well. we have an old saying in scotland that you cannot polish a turnip and no amount of presentation will disguise the fact that the eu has a structural problem which we are not addressing. the institutional mechanisms of, and subject matter dealt with by the various parts of the eu must be addressed in the light of enlargement, or risk continued stagnation. only real reform will bring the eu closer to the citizen and it is upon that reform we should concentrate.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the eu is charging vehicles again for roads already paid for by national taxes. the eu will maintain nothing, so this is a scam. lorries and coaches will pay: scam 1, a daily charge of eur 8; plus scam 2, an annual charge of up to eur 1 400; plus scam 3, tolls based on distance travelled; plus scam 4, an urban mark-up of 25% under the euro-vignette; plus scam 5, an estimated eur 1 500 to change to a digital tachograph; plus scam 6, driver-specific photo licences – in short, id cards; and scam 7, eur 3.5 billion paid by eu citizens because each vehicle will be tracked by galileo, described as the biggest, whitest elephant ever to become weightless. but will this reduce congestion and emissions? should buses and coaches be the first category to be charged? the answer is no.500 million europeans travelled by coach in 2005, many of them elderly people. this legislation encourages smaller vehicles, creating greater congestion, emissions and expense. but emission-sensitive charging already exists: it is called fuel duty. is that too simple for the eu? however, the cost of all this is really about eu taxation for a centralised europe and funding a satellite, is it not? it has nothing to do with roads.
mr president, i wish to begin by apologising to the house for the considerable embarrassment of my countryman, mr nattrass, who clearly lacks the intellectual capacity to discuss the correct report. he obviously thought we were talking about the eurovignette. it is very embarrassing. we know ukip is 20 years out of date, and it shows in this chamber. firstly, tiredness kills. if we look at the demands on drivers these days with congestion and the just-in-time culture, we realise what strain there is on drivers. that is why this measure is a very important step forward for road safety. key to it are digital tachographs, and key to the success of that was having a much more realistic deadline than the original one. that allows us to have proper monitoring, and this is a much simpler regulation than previous ones. that has to be the key to success. i am delighted that parliament has been able to increase the number of checks, but it is all about monitoring, implementation and enforcement. we must ensure that all member states carry out those checks and we need coordination between the enforcement authorities in all member states. i hope the commission will be vigorous in monitoring progress there. member states could do more than simply apply laws. there are insufficient rest areas for drivers; there are insufficient incentives for training. i compliment the work done by scania through its driver of the year competition to encourage training. working time is clearly part and parcel of this process and needs to be monitored. i am horrified to learn that ten member states have not yet implemented that. we hope the commission will take greater action. let us emphasise constantly the importance of consistent implementation. it is the commission’s job to ensure that member states are doing their job.
mr president, when i first heard that the european union wanted to tell me how long i could work each week, i finally realised it had lost its collective mind. and here we go again! these proposed restrictions on the good management of transport businesses make several huge and utterly unjustified assumptions. they assume that business managers do not know how best to organise their businesses and balance customer needs with staff resources. they assume they think it is worth taking risks – criminal risks at that – in overworking tired drivers, and publicity risks if they are found guilty. it assumes that owner-drivers do not know what is in their own best interests. over the last half-century, social engineering of this kind has proved beyond doubt that it simply does not work. when will it dawn on you that the european economic mess is precisely because of this kind of interference? this proposal is a sledgehammer to crack a nut and, just like the port services directive, it should be disposed of into the waste bin.
mr president, i have protested in this chamber on every available occasion about this unnecessary piece of legislation. i stick by my previous words describing these proposals as impractical, untenable and unenforceable. following the long, drawn-out conciliation process, we have before us something which is still blind to the realities of the haulage, distribution and public transport sectors. we are told that this is a road safety measure. it is nothing of the sort! bus services in rural areas – where many people are elderly and rely on public transport – will be jeopardised due to the inflexibility of this proposal. either that, or the costs to local taxpayers will rise significantly as public authorities strive to pile on even greater subsidies, let alone the fact that uk industry tells me that it will be at least five years before there is a sufficient number of trained drivers to meet the requirements of this regulation. in the commercial sector, just-in-time delivery systems – the backbone of modern industrial supply – will also be jeopardised due to the lack of drivers. all of which is not speculation, as an independent survey of over 500 haulage companies from my constituency indicates. some haulage companies are planning to shut down altogether due to eu over-regulation. i can guarantee to every member in this house that the negative effects will be mirrored in other member states as well. we keep hearing the commission state that it will be repealing over-regulatory legislation and not proceeding with other damaging proposals. here we have another opportunity for the commission to prove exactly that. today gives us an opportunity to let business run itself without the heavy hand of brussels always at its shoulder. i urge that this proposal be rejected so that companies, whether in haulage or public transport, can prosper.
mr president, i rise under rule 108. we are about to vote on a resolution which is in response to an oral question tabled to the council last night. this is an extremely important issue for parliament to try to ensure that taxpayers’ money is managed and supervised correctly within the member states. within the oral question there were six specific questions and there was also an additional verbal question which was: will the council discuss this with parliament? we had a ten-minute statement from the presidency which answered none of the seven questions. whilst i would ask members to support this text in its entirety, could i ask the president to ask the council if we could have the answers in writing, please. (applause)
in writing. i welcome the new regulation which is primarily designed to strengthen and improve social legislation for drivers engaged in road transport activities. the regulation lays down four main elements. it establishes that all new vehicles should be fitted with digital tachographs and it defines a ‘regular daily rest period’ as any uninterrupted period of rest of at least 11 hours, which alternatively may be taken in two periods. in addition, a new definition on ‘driving time’ has been agreed upon, as well as the provisions of the european agreement concerning the work of crews of vehicles engaged in international road transport, which are now being aligned with those of the regulation. finally, it acknowledges that the maximum weekly working time of 60 hours per week must be respected. all in all, i agree that the regulation contributes significantly to greater road safety in europe.
in writing. today i voted against a commission proposal for uniformity and metrification of food products, including bread and milk. the effect would have been to end the british measuring of bottled milk in pints and would change the size of our standard loaf. in addition to imposing meaningless uniformity, both proposals would have imposed immense cost on uk bread-makers and milk processors, because of the re-tooling which would have been required. i had met representatives of the bread industry in northern ireland and was in doubt as to the intolerable and costly imposition which was involved. i am therefore delighted that the european parliament rejected this aspect of brussels’ latest crazed proposal.
in writing. the implications of some of the commission proposals on a number of eu industries, in particular the whisky industry in scotland, would have been negative, so i was glad that the imco committee made a number of changes, which i am pleased to support. the internal market has been a massive advantage for eu producers, and we in this house must ensure that those advantages remain to the fore.
in writing. i will be voting in favour of the brok report on common foreign and security policy. we have seen the successive development in europe of industrial, social and economic and monetary union. we now have a union bigger than the us with 451 million citizens and an economy more powerful than that of the us. yet we still lack a single voice in the world. what europe is missing is a common foreign and security policy that would give us that voice. mr brok’s report moves us in the right direction. we will have many battles over the details of such a policy. but need one we do and have one we must.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party commends mr brok's report for its commitment to a strong cfsp, with an emphasis on conflict resolution, the fight against poverty and upholding human rights. we thank the rapporteur for his condolences in respect of the london bombings. however, i also want to place on record our support for the trade and aid regulations for northern cyprus, rather that the wording of amendment 1, together with our longstanding opposition to military spending falling under the community budget.
in writing. i welcome this report, which stipulates that parliament asserts the right to be consulted more effectively and to play a more active role in the eu’s common foreign and security policy and european security and defence policy. the afet committee’s report sets out priorities needed to prevent conflicts and build international cooperation founded on respect for human rights and international law.
in writing. conservatives can support certain provisions in this report, such as the recommendations to maintain the arms embargo on china, revive negotiations between israel and the palestinians and make african governments fulfil their commitments to democracy and the rule of law. however, it also contains many proposals to which we are firmly opposed. in general it seeks to extend the reach of cfsp into every area of national foreign policy. paragraph 4 brazenly lists the measures taken "to anticipate the application of some of the provisions of the new constitutional treaty" despite the welcome rejection of the constitution. paragraph 10 mistakenly considers "home defence as a vital part of the european union's security strategy", whereas it is the preserve of national governments. nato, the cornerstone of european defence for over half a century and the key organisation for international crisis management missions involving military forces, barely warrants a mention in this report, with paragraph 12 misleadingly subsuming nato to a role "within europe's foreign and security policy." we also object to the idea of an eu military mission to the democratic republic of congo and for an eu defence budget. we therefore abstained in the final vote.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues deplore all violence against women. indeed, we deplore violence against both sexes being perpetrated by both sexes, or by anyone against anyone. we also believe that women must be protected from violent acts and those responsible for such acts should face the full force of the law. however, we have abstained on this report as it is a missed opportunity to address a serious problem. the intemperate language detracts from the important message the report is trying to send out.
in writing. i welcome this report, which reaffirms that men’s violence against women is a violation of human rights and that perpetrators of such violence should be prosecuted as vigorously as in those cases where violence is directed at men. there is a discrepancy between how crimes of violence are treated and punished depending on the gender of the victim. whether such violence occurs in a public environment or in a private environment should not be relevant in tackling such violence as a criminal offence. whilst recognising that the declaration on the elimination of violence against women adopted by the un general assembly in 1993 was an important milestone in the recognition of the problem of domestic violence against women, this report rightly stresses that, in the eu context, more can be done. i especially support its calls for a fundamental analysis of the extent of the problem following studies carried out in three eu countries showing that 40-50% of women had, at some point in their lives, been subjected to violence by a man. in the eu we have a duty to recognise and ensure the rights of women to life and physical safety under the rule of law.
in writing. my reasons for supporting this report are many and deep. for most people in society violence against women is abhorrent, but we know it exists. violence between people who know each other, such as partners, needs to be treated extremely seriously by the authorities. i support the actions proposed to facilitate changes, especially in the area of trafficking and domestic violence.
in writing. i welcome the committee on women’s rights and gender equality’s own-initiative report on the future of the lisbon strategy with regard to the gender perspective. i agree that measures must be taken to promote employment for women as well as reduce the continuing inequalities between women and men. the report stresses the disparities that still exist in underlying factors such as employment, the wage gap, lifelong education and training. it also assesses the ways in which professional, family and private life can be successfully combined.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in palestine. while we are right to call on hamas to recognise israel and end terrorism, we should not bring into question the outcome of fair and free democratic elections. the eu must continue to give aid to the palestinian people and remain fully engaged as a member of the quartet pushing the ‘roadmap for peace’.
in writing. the election of hamas was the democratic will of the palestinian people, and while i have grave misgivings about the policies of that organisation, there is no question that they form the legitimate government. the aid the eu gives to the peace process can, and indeed must, be conditional upon continued moves towards peace. to shut off the aid now would risk alienating an organisation the eu must remain engaged with. i believe continued application of eu pressure will help to deliver a long-term solution. we cannot disengage now because of distaste for individual partners we are obliged to work with.
in writing. today i voted for the joint resolution on cuba, though i would have preferred it to have expressly regretted the 2005 abandonment of sanctions. as a society built on the imperative of marxist domination, it is no surprise that cuba is a bastion of repression, where dissent is crushed and freedom denied. it is a telling insight into the totalitarian and marxist reality, which lurks behind its democratic facade, that sinn fein/ira maintains representation in cuba. it was most notoriously exposed when, in 2001, that representative, niall connolly, infamously organised for himself and others to train farc guerrillas in columbia. the eu’s abandonment of sanctions in 2005 has been an utter failure. human rights abuses have increased, not diminished. as ever with marxist extremists, be they castro or sinn fein, they simply pocket the concessions and carry on regardless. i say it is time we learnt the lesson and put some steel back into our stand against this hideous regime.
in writing. i will vote with reluctance for this resolution. the situation of human rights in cuba is by no means perfect and on some occasions the cuban authorities have been their own worst enemies in refusing permission for representatives of the damas de blanco to travel to strasbourg to receive their share of the sakharov prize recently. yet there is, in my opinion, no climate of fear in havana, such as that i have witnessed in kashmir or, until recently, aceh. there is an issue of proportionality. yes, cuba violates human rights but not to the extent of colombia with its death squads or haiti with the anarchy of criminal gangs and violent politics which have seen more than 1000 deaths. hopefully next week’s elections there might start to bring that to an end. where is parliament’s constant concern on these and other human rights in the region outside of cuba? where are our concerns about ‘occupied’ cuba in guantanamo bay, where reports indicate that the situation is far worse than cuba’s worst jails?
in writing. there are many instances where an eu of 25 states does not make sense, and one-size-fits-all does not work any more – if it ever did. there is no reason why i as a scottish member of this house should have a say over the mediterranean, and i have accordingly abstained on this vote. the eu needs to find new ways of working to ensure legitimacy of our decisions. continuing the notion that everyone is equally interested in everything is untenable and discredits the eu itself.
mr president, i want to draw your attention to a recent conference held in london on drugs in afghanistan. we face a grave threat from a flood of heroin made from the afghan poppy, destroying the lives of europeans, especially young europeans. as chairman of the afghan circle in the european parliament, i know the problem faced by the leaders of afghanistan, whom i have met many times, with over 60% of their economy being dependent on the poppy. the countries of the region came together for the first time at the london conference to offer support to afghanistan. regional cooperation is the way forward. the distinguished foreign minister of kazakhstan, mr tokaev, for example, said that kazakhstan is funding a programme which provides afghan farmers with alternative seeds, equipment and advice on growing alternative crops. others are doing the same and, as you know, britain is playing a leading role in the war against drugs. our parliament should have a debate on the global menace of drugs. we talk about terrorism and avian flu, but drugs are destroying many people’s lives.
mr president, the furore over the danish cartoons rages in europe and worldwide. i regret that meps are only going to have a restricted debate on it, but i am confident that, whatever our opinions on the publication of the cartoons, it will condemn unreservedly the violence and destruction committed because of the offence taken. but efforts to lower the temperature have been impeded by the real crimes against muslims, not only illegal abduction and detention – as in guantanamo bay, which we will be debating later this week – but the assaults by occupying forces. most recently, a video apparently showing british troops beating up iraqi youths was revealed yesterday. human rights and the rule of law must be universally respected by those of all faiths and none. i disagree with my colleague over on the right. i do not believe that i live in a christian state or christian territory and i look forward very much to turkey joining the european union.
mr president, the british government is proceeding with a programme of reorganisation of the english and welsh police forces on a regional basis. the stated reason is that the existing structures cannot deal adequately with terrorism, extremism and serious and organised crime. however, the real reason is not to make them more effective, but to further the eu’s policy of regionalisation of member states. where the british people have been given a choice, they have rejected regionalisation overwhelmingly. the police forces are to be given no such choice: the home secretary, charles clarke, gave the 43 chief constables an ultimatum to produce plans for a mass merger, like it or not. the treaty of rome speaks of the regions, and their significance is becoming more and more apparent. few people in britain realise how their country is being fundamentally changed in order for it to become merely a region of a united states of europe.
mr president, there are currently 84 lisbon directives that the european parliament has adopted; 63 of them should have been fully implemented by all member states; so far, only 12 have been fully implemented. according to the latest figures published by the commission, the directive on the common rules for the internal market in natural gas should have been implemented by 1 july 2004. the following countries have yet to notify the commission of their legislation implementing that directive: belgium, germany, estonia, spain, ireland, latvia and luxembourg. lisbon is placed in jeopardy by such lax behaviour on the part of the member states. mr president, would you write to the commission and ask them what they are doing to speed up legislation on the gas directive in particular?
mr president, i wish to raise an issue of pressing importance to the farming community in my constituency. in the agricultural sector in northern ireland there is a high preponderance of conacre lettings, whereby an active farmer rents land for ten months each year from an inactive landowner. under regulation (ec) no 782/2003 – as it is being implemented – the landowner and the active farmer cannot share the single farm payment relating to that land. that has resulted in duplicate claims for the same land by both tenant and farmer. now both face the penalty of total non-payment. confusion and error, rather than fraud, is the predominant cause. the threatened withholding of the entire single farm payment is wholly disproportionate and potentially ruinous for many. i therefore call upon the commission to sanction an approach capable of delivering a solution and securing the purpose of single farm payments, namely a fair standard of living for farmers.
mr president, i welcome this opportunity to register my contempt for a decision taken by a high-level group – which i presume is the commission – to overrule the committee on budgetary control and reappoint mr franz-hermann brüner as director-general of olaf. mr brüner is an immensely controversial figure and his judgement has been brought into question on many occasions. in his first term he supported witch hunts against journalists such as hans-martin tillack who exposed frauds. he has also been criticised by politicians and his supervisory board, and i do not believe he has the confidence of this parliament, the press or the public. this also demonstrates the utter pointlessness of this parliament and its committee system. the candidates for the post gave presentations before the committee on budgetary control. we questioned them and ultimately voted for a better candidate from sweden. now we find that the whole time-consuming process was a meaningless charade.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, this is a scintillating report that runs to 48 pages. it is a tour de force of bureaucratic mumbo-jumbo and statements of the blindingly obvious. the authors have provided us with such masterpieces as ‘regular inspections of establishments by competent animal welfare inspection authorities would place a considerable burden on farms and greatly increase the size of the authorities. it would also substantially increase costs. these can be curbed by having irregular inspections carried out on a random basis’. i will let members consider the wisdom of that particular pearl in their own time. this parliament regularly churns out details like that, prepared by people who probably have not the faintest idea what it is like out in the real world, where real people have to try to put all these new rules into practice and still manage to turn a profit. not only do the authors of this report wish to see this new regime inflicted on chicken meat producers in the 25 member states, but they also make it clear that they expect non-eu countries to follow suit. some chance, i would suggest! i come from a country that already has very high standards of animal welfare and hygiene, which are vigorously policed. we do not need a supranational bureaucratic dictatorship to tell us how to look after our chickens. the authors of this report have laid an egg and i suggest they scramble it. (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, this is a very worthy report that has been a long time coming through the system. it has achieved as good a balance as one could expect, because i recognise that this is not an easy area in which to balance all the different interests. two weeks ago, a poultry-processing plant in northern ireland closed with the loss of over 400 jobs, not to mention the other jobs on the farms and in the feed compound mills. the reason given was that they could no longer compete with cheap imports from asia and south america. i happen to believe that there is no such thing as cheap food. if food is cheap, it is not meeting the standards. therefore i have to ask myself: is the chicken meat produced to our existing standards, never mind the proposed increased standards? i support the part of the report that states, in amendment 17, that we must insist on the same standards in third countries as in the european union. at the moment we only pay lip service to this. we are tying the hands of our producers, our farmers, with bureaucracy and red tape, while allowing others to flood our markets with food that does not meet our standards. this goes beyond the poultry industry: it is in the pig industry and in the red meat industry as well. they all have the same problem. i welcome higher standards, but i want the same everywhere. we must give consumers the choice. we must have proper food labelling; it must be clear, so that wherever consumers shop they can make a clear choice about what they wish to buy. they must know where the food came from. in many instances the supermarkets in the european union are worsening standards by forcing down food prices. as i said earlier, there is no such thing as cheap food; cheap food is sub-standard food.
mr president, i too welcome this report and would like to thank the commission and the rapporteur for actions which demonstrate that the eu is still prepared to take a leading role in actively improving and promoting animal welfare issues. the proposal starts from the basis that the existing standards for keeping chicken for meat production are indeed very low in parts of the european union at the present time, and that is demonstrated by painful leg disorders, enlargement of the heart, sudden death syndrome, ammonia burns on feet and so on. i welcome the committee on agriculture and rural development’s proposals, but i still believe there is room for further improvement and that is why i have also signed the amendments tabled by mrs jørgensen. in particular we need further action on stocking density, on uninterrupted rest periods – a minimum of six hours in the darkness – and on issues such as the inhumane issue of beak trimming. that said, even if we only go as far as the proposal put forward by mr berman, there would be a big step forward for animal welfare, but it will also be a big step forward for consumers. consumers worry about the conditions under which their chicken meat is produced and they worry about the health of the chicken they are eating. properly reared chicken will be a better piece of meat when it goes on the plate. finally, i would like to address the issue of cost. i have looked at the various estimates of what this would cost the industry. even if you take the highest estimate, if you aggregate that estimate down to the cost per bird, you are talking about one british penny per bird. it is not going to be animal welfare measures that make our industry uncompetitive. i accept that the industry is facing real challenges from places like thailand and brazil, but there are other factors – cost of labour and other costs – that we cannot compete on. it is not animal welfare standards that will make the difference in terms of whether our industry survives or not, so do not use competition as a reason for rejecting these animal welfare standards.
mr president, i also very much welcome mr berman’s report and thank him for the work he has put into it. i believe that high standards for animal welfare are good not only for chickens but also for farmers and consumers. what we have to do is get the balance right and i believe he has moved in that direction. it is not just about the number of chickens per square metre; it is also about the atmospheric conditions in the houses and whether there is straw or anything in them, so that the chickens have slightly better conditions during their very short lives. when consumers go to the supermarket to buy chicken, it has to be clearly labelled. one of the problems is that you can often go into a supermarket now anywhere in the european union and buy a chicken without being absolutely sure where it has come from and to what standards it has been produced. the commissioner said that consumers like to buy high-welfare-standard chickens. yes, they do, but these need to be clearly labelled. also, the commissioner must be aware that a lot of the imported chicken meat that comes into europe arrives in a partially cooked state. that way it gets around some of the eu tariffs. it then goes straight into processed food, so that when we go to buy our chicken sandwich at a motorway service station, it will probably be made from imported chicken meat and we have no idea what sort of standards it has met. amendment 17 to article 5 asks the commission to bring in a clear labelling system for meat that is imported into the european union after the legislation has been in place for six months. i urge the commission to do that. when europe introduces higher standards – as i believe it must – we have to be sure that everything else entering europe meets the same high standards.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12.00. written statement (rule 142)
it is unacceptable that the chickens we eat are effectively subject to torture for the whole of their brief lives. i support the proposal to introduce lower stocking densities for broiler chickens and i will vote for the amendments i have co-signed for still lower levels. it is also right to deal with this matter at european level. too often, animal welfare provisions of this sort are thwarted at national level by the argument that ‘if we alone do it, we will put our producers at a competitive disadvantage, and production will simply shift to less scrupulous member states’. by introducing the same rule across the whole of our single european market, we lessen that problem at a stroke, ensure a level playing field for our producers and protect chickens across 25 countries.
the next item is the report by gunnar hökmark, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on state aid reform 2005-2009 (2005/2165(ini)) (a6-0009/2006).
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, it would be very nice if we were able to throw endless amounts of money at our relatively poor east european neighbours, but history has shown that by doing that you do not make the poor rich, you simply make the rich poor. at an exhibition in brussels put on by the dutch presidency, it was predicted that another ten poor european countries will be joining the eu by 2022: albania, armenia, belarus, bosnia and herzegovina, georgia, macedonia, moldova, montenegro, serbia and ukraine. west germany’s experience in pouring almost a thousand billion euro into east germany shows what it costs to try to create a level playing field for a poor neighbour. the cost of giving state aid to all of these new member states will be astronomical. currently the eu is spending over half its budget on state aid. britain is far from rich as it is. we are being told that our government cannot afford to pay us a decent pension unless we work until we are 70. our health service is seriously underfunded and our navy, which is a fraction of the size it once was, can hardly afford to pay for the fuel it needs to go to sea. let us stop this crazy idea now before the so-called rich member states end up totally impoverished. instead, why do we not help to improve the economies of our european neighbours and of third world countries by opening up free trade opportunities to them? if this enriches us all, as i think it will, individual member states might then be in a position to help their neighbours financially; but charity should begin at home.
mr president, it seems to me that on occasions the commission’s policy on state aid has proved to be a blunt, inflexible and at times inappropriately directed instrument, which has often discouraged rather than facilitated economic development. i therefore question whether a further assault on state aid is justified in pursuit of the failing lisbon agenda. however, the specific issue i wish to focus on is regional aid. i welcome the fact that the present regional aid guidelines, as they affect my constituency of northern ireland, are a marked improvement from earlier drafts, and that the commission has listened to representations from myself and others. the new draft guidelines provide for continued distinctive treatment of northern ireland as an economic development region and therefore allow ongoing aid to attract inward foreign investment on a reducing scale through to 2011. having to compete with a 12.5% corporation tax south of the border in ireland, the capacity for northern ireland to give aid to attract foreign investment is absolutely indispensable. it is exactly such local realities that the commission needs to reflect more and more on the implementation of what is too often rigid dogma on state aids and indeed on other policies affecting the european union.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i speak as a professional economist of some years – not without a modest prestige in the city of london – so perhaps i know something of how the global economy works. the idea that failing national economies should be given money to protect them from global realities is like giving a bottle of whisky to an alcoholic. one man’s state aid is another man’s tax. money spent by a politician is nearly always wasted. this place is the problem, it is not the solution. perhaps we should occupy our time with a standardisation of windscreen wipers or spirit bottles, or phasing out the oldest profession in the world, or some such nonsense. let us see if serious thought should be left to those with experience of the real world, sadly unrepresented in this place.
member of the commission. mr president, we should thank mrs herczog in particular for provoking such a stimulating debate on globalisation, but this evening’s discussion shows that globalisation is something of a loaded term. it causes concern and apprehension. i understand these concerns, but i do not share them. we in europe should have more confidence in our own ability. globalisation can be a challenge, but equally it is an opportunity and that is how we should approach it. the reason is simple. we have no alternative. seeing globalisation as a threat feeds calls for protectionism. i have stated on numerous occasions that i do not think that closing borders and protecting markets can be the answer. shielding economies from competition does not make them competitive. markets only become competitive if companies are forced to compete. remaining in a state of denial, pretending the outside world does not exist, is a recipe for lacklustre economic performance. with poor economic performance, we simply cannot sustain our social model. globalisation is not something that happens outside the single market; it is part of the single market and the single market is part of a globalised market.
author. – it was my predecessor, philip whitehead, who tabled this question on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and i know that he would have wanted to ensure that we support the solvit system and encourage the commission to refine and develop the problem-solving network on behalf of eu citizens and consumers. that is why we have tabled a number of questions to the commissioner to assist in further developing and supporting the solvit network. i want to share with you the view of a united kingdom citizen living in the netherlands who used the solvit system. he said, ‘solvit is a great service and it should really shout louder about its achievements’. the positive achievements and experiences of our citizens translate into positive attitudes towards europe, and i believe that our duty as legislators has to be to ensure that the laws we pass are implemented in a way that gives our citizens and consumers the benefits of working, living or doing business in the internal market. when errors or problems arise in the implementation of eu laws, not only are citizens denied their rights, but the very credibility of the eu as a law-making institution is undermined. solvit is a means of righting these wrongs and assisting national administrations in ensuring the correct implementation and transposition of the legislation that we pass together in the european union. at the same time, it has the potential to be the customer service face, or the front desk, of the eu law-making process. it can influence people’s perceptions of the eu. i have referred constituency cases to the solvit network and have been impressed with how the issues have been handled and with the prompt responses to our questions. one of my constituents had difficulty in having a blue disabled badge issued in germany: mrs nuttall was informed that she had to be a resident in germany. solvit stepped in and contacted the local german authority, which then issued her with a temporary blue disabled parking badge – again, that was the eu delivering for citizens. as is indicated in our question, the committee certainly believes that the online problem-solving network can find pragmatic and rapid solutions, which do not have to end up in the courts or as infringement cases. clearly, however, solvit needs more resources and support, and needs to promote itself and its availability to the public. it needs to make its services better known to libraries, to consumer watchdogs and, of course, to my fellow meps, as well as to local authorities, which are often in breach of eu law. i believe, as does my constituent, that a revamp of the website is needed, with, where possible, real-life cases that have been solved by solvit. mr meehan has said to me that the solvit system could benefit from joint cooperation with europe direct. often he has contacted europe direct with questions only to find that it is the solvit staff that have the technical and legal expertise to answer the questions that the public and his citizens need answered. there could well be a strong role for the solvit network in assisting with the implementation of the services directive. it could assist in aiding market access for businesses, by supporting the role of the single point of contact for businesses to get into the single market in services, known as the ‘one-stop shop’. the committee certainly wants to see solvit strengthened. we want to see it better resourced, both in the commission and at member state level, and we want to see solvit as a trouble-shooter for citizens and consumers throughout the eu. commissioner, i hope you will take up the issues in the committee’s question.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission very much appreciates the interest expressed by the european parliament in the eu problem-solving network solvit. solvit is more than just a system, it is in many ways the starting point of a change in administrative culture, for the following reasons: firstly, with its ten-week deadline and pragmatic approach, solvit cuts procedural red tape and puts citizens and businesses first; secondly, member states are made directly responsible for solving internal market problems that arise between them and, thirdly, with its fully transparent way of working, solvit delivers measurable results that make a real difference for citizens and businesses. after three years of experience, the commission can wholeheartedly recommend solvit as an alternative, fast and effective way of handling complaints. therefore, more resources have been allocated to the commission solvit support team, which, since september, counts five full-time and four part-time staff. one of the key policy objectives for solvit is to integrate it as a standard instrument in the toolbox of all commission case handlers dealing with the complaints of citizens and businesses. we also wish to further increase awareness about the existence and the possibilities of solvit within other eu institutions, such as the european parliament, within national administrations and within organisations representing citizens and business interests. there are currently two issues that need to be addressed to allow solvit to reach its full potential: the need for member states’ authorities to change administrative practices and habits, and ensuring that sufficient resources are available at national level to handle solvit complaints and to engage in awareness-raising activities. solvit is a tool designed for problem solving. the commission believes that the solvit working method can be developed in order to support administrative cooperation in many areas. inspired by the success of solvit, we are currently developing an internal market information system, which is a more general tool aimed at supporting administrative cooperation between member states across the internal market. the profile of solvit at the political level should be raised. it is only with sufficient political commitment that administrations will be prepared to resort to faster and more informal methods for problem solving wherever possible. it is only with a clear political will that sufficient staff will be allocated in national administrations to solve problems within deadlines and to get the word out to businesses and citizens. given its rate of success so far, the commission believes that it will be possible to ensure more awareness-raising without having to provide a binding legal basis for solvit. the absence of such a binding legal basis has, to date, allowed a great deal of flexibility. moreover, over the past few years we have seen interesting spontaneous developments, such as the more structural resolution of problems by several solvit centres, even though this is not part of the solvit mandate as described in the commission recommendation. the commission will continue to play an active role in the further development of solvit. a second annual report on the functioning and development of solvit will be available in april 2006 and will allow the european parliament to further monitor the situation.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i very much welcome this question. i would also like to welcome my friend and colleague, mrs mccarthy, who is here for the first time as chairwoman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection: this is the first of many future occasions when we will grapple with the issues. i want to declare a special interest in solvit. my office was privileged to be one of the pilot users of the system, and my staff have been trained on it. we have referred quite a number of complaints to it. we have been extremely gratified by the results, and the people we have helped have also been pleased. i would like to associate myself very fully indeed with the tone of this question, but i think that there are a number of points that flow from it, because the resources that it needs are not just at commission level as you, commissioner, pointed out. we also have to get the member states to put the resources in and gear up their activities. i want to take this opportunity to thank publicly the very hard-working uk staff of solvit in the department of trade and industry who have been extremely helpful to my staff in pursuing a very wide range of complaints. i am sure that other countries have had the same experience. but, commissioner, you need to put pressure on the member states as well. as you said, it is the change of culture that is going to be absolutely vital in this respect. i also want to support very much what you said about the evolution of this type of combination of technology and process – using the technology to cut through the bureaucracy – because we hope and we are sure, in fact, that we will need this as the internal market for services develops. i am increasingly certain that we will improve this with a substantial majority this week, but we want to get on with that. there are new cooperative provisions in there, there will be new small businesses accessing the single market and all of them will need access to solvit if we really are going to get the economic benefits that the single market promises.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this is indeed a special question, and it is good that it represents the continuity between our former chairman, mr whitehead, and mrs mccarthy. when the solvit system works it makes the internal market work. it has been a success: it delivers positive outcomes; it has practical effects both for smes and others trying to make the internal market work. it deals mainly with administrative problems. but i, like others, have had many positive experiences in referring constituents to solvit and seeing them come away as satisfied customers. however, the question certainly points out the problems: resources and publicity. if there is a good service there, then we surely need to tell more people about it; and if resources are needed and the problems are at member state level, we need to try and address that. but i want to draw attention to something else. last week i had the opportunity to speak at a meeting hosted by the commission of consumer representatives from consumer bureaux across the european union. it is quite clear that there are still enormous problems in satisfying the cross-border difficulties that consumers encounter. i believe that we could do more to extend the solvit-type system to these sorts of problems. the solvit system is, after all, simple, pragmatic and practical – surely an example of the best sort of thing we do, rather than being overly legalistic. it shows the eu can deliver added value that gives practical effect to our citizens, to make our internal market work for the best. let us take it further, if we can, by extending it more into the area of consumers, and not just that of administrative problems.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, it is more money again, is it not? may i suggest that the people who think this network is a really good idea pay for it themselves, instead of squeezing ever more money out of the hard-pressed british taxpayer, who is already being squeezed dry by the greedy and stupid politicians who seem to hold sway over us at every level.
rapporteur. – mr president, it is a sadness to have to deal with this issue, which goes to the heart of the acquis communautaire. one could say that we are dealing with a greek tragedy, but one that affects other eu citizens. on the committee on petitions, above all other committees, i believe we have to put aside our national and party political obligations and allegiances in order to deliver natural justice for the citizens who approach us. we have received numerous petitions from citizens across the eu concerning confiscation of their cars by the greek authorities. the petitioners have stated that greece has not properly implemented directive 83/182/eec, which concerns conditions for the exemption of certain taxes and excise duties for eu citizens who are normally resident – and that is key – in another member state. the greek authorities have also imposed disproportionately high administrative penalties and confiscated petitioners’ property, claiming that those concerned were attempting to evade tax payments. the petitioners have been asked, in some instances, to pay up to ten times the level of customs duties without any due recognition of the actual value of the motor vehicle. this report has been discussed several times in committee and was adopted by a large majority at the end of november. the petitioners came to present their petition, explaining that, in some cases, they have had to pay fees and fines of up to eur 45 000 to retrieve their property, after the greek authorities had impounded and confiscated their vehicles. both i, as rapporteur, and the chairman of the committee on petitions have been in regular contact with the greek authorities to try and resolve these issues and the cases that are currently before them. an amendment to the law on the greek national customs code has been adopted by the greek parliament. however, i am informed that this law still gives the greek government the power to confiscate vehicles in this situation. it is worth remembering that the petitioners have fulfilled the conditions for exemption, laid down in directive 83/182/eec, from, in particular, turnover tax, excise duty and other consumption tax, in respect of temporary imports from another member state of motor-driven road vehicles. all the petitioners have their normal residence – i.e., the place where they live at least 185 days in each calendar year, because of personal or occupational ties – in a member state other than greece; that is, they fulfil the conditions laid down in the directive. the petitioners were also able to give absolute proof of their normal place of residence by appropriate means, such as identity cards or other valid documents. furthermore, the imposition of a special administrative penalty and, in particular, of fines set at a flat rate on the basis of the sole criterion of the cubic capacity of the vehicle – with no account being taken of the age of that vehicle – as well as of an increased duty, which, in some cases, can amount to up to ten times the taxes in question, is – not only in my opinion, but in the opinion of the commission – incompatible with the community principle of proportionality. finally, i hope that the adoption of this report will send a very strong signal to the greek authorities that they must amend their law so that it is in conformity with the eu directives that i have referred to. often in the eu, we believe that the acquis communautaire is an à la carte menu from which we can pick and choose what we like. on the contrary: the acquis communautaire and being a member of the eu means that we adopt fully and transpose properly the acquis. i call on the commission to tell us what actions it will be taking if the greek authorities fail to implement the community directive appropriately.
rapporteur. – mr president, there was a suggestion, interestingly from my own side of the house, that we were targeting greece unfairly. let me just say that, in the committee on petitions, we can only react to and deal with petitions that we have received and we have received no petitions from any other member state regarding the confiscation of vehicles. as commissioner kovács quite rightly said, where there are problems, vehicles have not been confiscated. i therefore say to members of the house that they should look at the title of this report. quite clearly greece is not in compliance with this directive. there are clear violations, otherwise the infringement process would not have begun. when we sign up to laws, we have to implement them properly. whether the case is before the court or not, given that we are co-legislator it would be staggering if the european parliament did not have an opinion on whether a member state is compliant. finally, the resolution of this problem quite clearly lies with the greek authorities. they can resolve it swiftly or they can leave it to the european court of justice.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would like to join those who have already congratulated the rapporteur. i think he has done an excellent job of work. this directive will benefit workers exposed to risks from artificial sources of optical radiation in a wide range of working environments: everything from electric arc welders to workers using advanced industrial lasers. when i was rapporteur at first reading on this proposal well over ten years ago, the use of industrial lasers was pretty much in its infancy, but now they are very widespread and exposing workers to varying degrees of risk. it is a useful piece of legislation and again i would like to say ‘well done’ to the rapporteur. i have to say, however, that he produced good work despite, rather than because of, the help of his own group. at one time this institution took its work on health and safety subjects very seriously, but a rather worrying trend has developed in relation to recent directives. when we dealt, for example, with the directive on vibration, we were told that we must exclude whole-body vibration because – and this was used in the tabloid press – what we were trying to do was to prevent farmers from driving their tractors for more than three or four hours even at the height of the harvest, which was nonsense. when we dealt with the noise directive we were told that we must exclude music and entertainment because what we were trying to do was to force members of orchestras to wear mickey mouse ear protectors and that we were about to ban the use of the bagpipes in scotland. again nonsense, but it grabbed the tabloid headlines. in this proposal we have had a determined push by a number of members in the rapporteur’s group and elsewhere to exclude a particular phenomenon from the scope of the directive. they pushed for that without realising that the risks arising from this phenomenon are clearly covered in the placing of clear obligations on employers by two earlier directives: the framework directive and the directive on temporary and mobile work sites. the phenomenon i am talking about is, of course, natural radiation. the rapporteur made a valiant effort and we tried to help him to give legal certainty to employers when it comes to solar radiation. they are now lacking that legal certainty and still have the full implications of the framework directive and temporary mobile work sites directive to deal with. hopefully, common sense will prevail at member state level, as it has so far. that would mean, for example, that a travel agency in my region could quickly discount the risk for employees working indoors in its shops in the north of england, but that it had better take very seriously the risk facing its staff acting as company representatives in mediterranean resorts throughout the summer months. that is the difficulty now facing employers. we have not given them legal certainty. we will have a number of more difficult cases to assess for employers between those two extremes that i have given as an example. i hope that in future we can again focus on producing good, serious health and safety legislation and not on producing tabloid headlines.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation. we now have a sensible directive to protect workers such as welders from artificial radiation. i am delighted that, at long last, everyone has seen sense and removed natural radiation from the remit of this directive. it has been a long, hard battle. i congratulate mrs weisgerber. she and i worked very hard after the commission proposed to legislate against sun in the second reading. not only would it have brought the eu into disrepute again, it would also have been a nightmare for employers and workers alike. legally, it would have been very difficult to prove whether a worker had contracted skin cancer from the workplace, the back garden or the beach. certainly, everyone ought to be warned about the dangers of the sun and that is why i am very much in favour of national campaigns. but once people have been given the information, we are adults and should be able to make up our own minds. it should not be left to the employer to enforce it. that is the nanny state mentality gone too far. imagine the language from some builders, for instance, if they were told to cover up when they were trying to get a sun tan for their holidays! it is no business of the eu to tell workers that they cannot go bare-chested or wear shorts. today's proceedings, and i hope the vote tomorrow, are a victory for common sense. they also demonstrate the power of the european parliament. if we had not voted the way we did at second reading, the commission would not have changed its mind and probably, more importantly, neither would the council. this is a good day for sensible legislation. as a pro-european, i think it very sad that we have had to waste time blocking ludicrous proposals like this. sunlight should never have been included in the directive. it is a very good directive and i hope everyone will vote for it tomorrow, but just for artificial radiation and not for the inclusion of natural radiation.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on international trade. – mr president, my committee welcomes mr agnoletto’s report which, with very few reservations, we fully support. in fact, we adopted our opinion, which echoes what mr agnoletto was saying, by 20 votes to 1. as the commissioner said, 14 years on from the start of these human rights agreements being included, it is time for a fresh look. since 1995 this has been invoked on 12 occasions. we have invoked it against niger, guinea-bissau, the central african republic, togo, haiti – from which i have just returned from an election-observation mission, comoros, the ivory coast, fiji, liberia and zimbabwe. the human rights clause has also prevented the conclusion of agreements with australia and new zealand and with belarus, following the increasingly authoritarian rule of mr lukashenko. we welcome the inclusion of the clause and would like it extended to sectoral trade agreements as well. we believe there should be specific benchmarks and possibly a more nuanced set of benchmarks for responding to human rights violations. we ask that the commission establish a monitoring mechanism that links the implementation and temporary suspension of trade agreements and autonomous trade measures to beneficiary countries’ compliance with basic democratic standards and respect for human and minority rights, as set out in the european parliament’s annual report on human rights in the world. i take the commissioner’s point that, if our involvement is included in terms of the adoption of the clause in trade and other agreements, it is not formally included in terms of the implementation of the clause. however, we ask the commission, by its own initiative, to involve the european parliament more systematically in the assessment of the implementation of the human rights clauses and similar requirements in the future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in may 1995 the council decided that, to promote fundamental rights and the eu’s democratic ideals, a clause insisting upon human rights observation should be included as an essential element of all bilateral agreements. in the ten years since the clause was introduced it has stood up to rigorous examination by the european court of justice and has been introduced into more than 50 of the eu’s agreements. however, in those ten years the eu has been criticised for failing to put its human rights tools in the field of external relations into practice and it has become increasingly apparent that when dealing with key countries, strategic partnerships and double standards of realpolitik still eclipse the fundamental human rights which this clause seeks to protect. by way of illustration, i make reference to the fact that, despite what we demand on paper, the debate sparked by the election of the new palestinian authority clearly spelled out that implementation depends primarily on the political will of the eu to assign priority to human rights issues over economic and political interests. before the democratically elected authority had the chance to organise itself, the eu-palestine agreement was up for review on the basis of human rights in a way that has been dismissed by both the council and the commission as unhelpful because it would remove leverage. however, when probed about the eu-israel association agreement, despite israel’s catalogue of defiance of security council resolutions and blatant disregard of the international court of justice, as she continues to annex east jerusalem and deny the palestinian people the right to self-determination, what is the eu’s response? i have been a harsh critic of the handling of the eu-israel association agreement, scrutinising the precise application of the human rights clause on numerous occasions on the floor of this house. yet i hear nothing other than euphemisms, such as that we must maintain our influence and continue our dialogue. if the council and the commission cannot spell out to this house how it uses the human rights clause coherently, effectively and transparently, then how can it expect this house to be prepared to give its assent to new international agreements? the vague criterion and inadequate procedures contained in this instrument have not helped me to penetrate the logic behind some eu decisions, nor does it help the eu to defend itself against accusations of ambivalence and discrimination in the face of serious human rights violations. a revised text must provide a concrete, step-by-step implemented mechanism, from dialogue to warning signals, and a spectrum of tools from smart sanctions to suspension, to add influence and authority to our interventions with persistent violators. moreover, the instrument should be based on the principle of reciprocity with regard to abuses that take place on eu soil as well as those abroad. if anything has become clear from the controversy over unlawful cia operations in europe, it is that when it comes to human rights, the eu has failed to keep its own house in order. the significance of this latest twist in the war on terror cannot be exaggerated, effectively shattering eu complacency about its own human rights record, with enquiries launched by the council of europe and this house with warnings that the sanctioning mechanism of article 7 may be used. it is time for the eu to engage in a thorough and comprehensive review and to connect and balance the external and internal dimensions of its policy on human rights. whilst the eu has struggled to consistently and systematically promote a coherent view of human rights, this parliament has been praised by ngos for the positive impact of the revival of the subcommittee on human rights. under the chairmanship of mrs flautre the subcommittee has gone from strength to strength and, coupled with the appointment of mr michael matheson, we have made inroads into the implementation of human rights guidelines. i finish by saying that as human rights feature more prominently in a range of foreign and security policy domains, and as cross-cutting issues demand more consistent participation, our knowledge and proficiency must be drawn on as joint decision-maker when it comes to initiating consultations and suspending agreements on the basis of human rights.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this clause was drafted ten years ago and applied in certain agreements. this report wants new criteria which must apply between eu member states and third countries. suspension of agreements with those countries would follow if the clause was contravened. this report criticises the fact that the clause does not exist in three big areas, namely agriculture, fisheries and textiles. of course democracy and human rights should be encouraged in all the states of the world which are unfortunate enough not to enjoy them already. all decent democratic states should use their relations with other countries – diplomatic and trading, cultural, etc. – to encourage the growth of democracy and human rights, something that my country, britain, has done for many years. however, this report says that the clause must apply in all countries equally. has this been properly thought out? if so, it will apply to china and other developing economies in the far east and other parts of the world. many jobs depend on trading relations with china and the number will increase in the future. are we really saying that we are going to turn the tide of history by telling china to turn into a democratic country with full human rights overnight, just on the basis of one report from the european parliament? i think not. today the united nations has called for guantanámo bay to be closed and there are many human rights questions hanging over what the americans are doing in guantanámo bay. if this agreement is to apply equally to all countries, are we going to suspend relations with the us if we think that it is contravening human rights in guantanámo bay? i was also struck by the arrogance of the commissioner in demanding that other countries, such as china and japan, abolish the death penalty if they want to have relations with the eu. i think that is an unbelievable intrusion into the democratic and sovereign right of other countries to have a penal system that suits them and their citizens rather than the european union. the european union itself is undermining democracy in all its member states. i know at first hand how democracy in britain has been undermined by our relationship with the european union and our increasing political integration into a united states of europe. so i think perhaps the european union should put its own house in order first, as far as democracy is concerned. perhaps it could make a start by paying attention to the results in the dutch and french referendums on the constitution. i suggest that this report is not properly thought out. yes, we want democracy and human rights in all the countries of the world. but let us try to do it by setting an example in friendship, rather than setting criteria and conditions that will not be met.
mr president, once again over the past year the eu has been accused of failing in its commitment to human rights by refusing to effectively use human rights clauses in trade and cooperation agreements. an important precedent was set in uzbekistan following the andijan massacre, but the fact that the reaction took four months is a sad commentary on the lack of seriousness given to the clauses in the past. despite huge human rights concerns and eu influence in the middle east, human rights clauses have never been invoked in relations with egypt, israel or tunisia, in the latter case despite strong eu statements last year on curbs on freedom of expression and the blocking of ngo funding. with the acp countries, i acknowledge that so-called article 96 consultations have taken place with 15 countries over the last eight years, in 11 cases leading to appropriate measures. however, the eu maintains close relations with angola, ethiopia and rwanda despite condemning abuses there and without any real pressure or action to follow up those condemnations. in eritrea there has been little response to the démarche so far: forced military conscription, arbitrary detention, harassment of refugees and the use of torture continue. how do we ensure the success of consultations on the human rights clauses? it needs commitment on the side of the third country. too much today this seems dependent on how far there is dependence on eu funding. it needs coordination between donors, for example as took place after the coup in the central african republic in 2003. it needs identification of the violations and the steps that need to be taken to rectify them, as in the case of guinea-bissau, when free and fair elections were held within the timescale set; and it needs the maintenance of close political dialogue, something that can be blocked and – as was seen today – was sadly lacking in the case of iran. we agree with the commissioner that political reasons too often block action by member states. i do not think she is arrogant; i think she is noble when she upholds the eu’s unswerving commitment to ending the death penalty. i find it breathtaking that the uk independence party this morning said that we could turn a blind eye to human rights violations with china simply because we trade effectively with it. i congratulate the commissioner and the rapporteur. (applause)
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would like to thank vice-president frattini for his comments. as the rapporteur on the schengen border code, i believe that we did set the precedent for close and effective cooperation. we all know the substance of this report. it is about making people’s lives easier and improving the daily lives of our citizens. arguably, that is what we should focus on more and more. it reinforces the schengen border code. we know that, once we have secure external borders, freedom of movement within the eu will be much simpler and more easily controlled. equally, we must remember that we need to be sensible. like mr brejc, mr lax, and others, i myself have adopted that approach. if what comes from the commission is sensible, we only need to amend it to improve, simplify or clarify. that must be our approach. we will then bring forward effective and well-understood regulation that is easy to implement at our borders. as the shadow rapporteur on the visa information system, that is also the approach i want to take. i know the rapporteur for the schengen information system is here today and i believe that, by cooperating in order to secure our borders and make sure that the information we have is used effectively, we will enhance the single biggest benefit of being a member of the eu, which is freedom of movement. congratulations to all concerned. (applause)
mr president, i should first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very clear report, particularly the explanatory statement, which uses illustrations. this is marvellous and i wish it happened with other reports. i speak as the president of the forum for construction in the european parliament. i cannot overemphasise the need for proper building insulation and, as my colleague just said, the need to stop the waste of energy in these enormous slab blocks in the eastern european countries that are now in the european union. some action is desperately needed in that area. i apologise, on behalf of the united kingdom, that it has not been up to speed with other countries in these renewable energy, heating and cooling measures. i am sure we will go up the league tables in the next few years. i fully support the rapporteur’s point that there should be national support schemes. she highlights the fact that the member states can use these as a matter of principle, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. she points out that any support should be limited in time and gradually reduced. i could not agree more. she then goes on to say that there should be incentive mechanisms to achieve a high degree of market penetration and, finally, that associated heating and cooling networks should be encouraged. this report is to be welcomed by the industry and the european parliament and will ensure that we have safe and secure energy supplies in the future.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details concerning the vote: see minutes)
mr president, on a point of order, while you are probably the best vice-president we have in this parliament, you have already made two mistakes today! and at a recent voting session with mr mauro in the chair, he said that one amendment was rejected, when in fact it was adopted by 584 votes to 41. how much longer are we going to put up with this ridiculous system?
the problem is that when it is not a roll-call vote, people tend not to put their hands up. i try to encourage them, but i cannot force them. that is why we have so many checks.
you are the rapporteur. the next two parts fall. before the vote on amendment 5:
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to speak briefly on my report on access restrictions to fisheries under the common fisheries policy. i call on colleagues to give their full support to this report on access restrictions to the cfp, which cover the shetland box and the plaice box. this report is good news for sustainable eu fisheries policy as it recognises the need to make sensitive use of access restrictions. i should like to thank the pse group for its invaluable backing. the restrictions covered by this report are of obvious importance, and i call on all colleagues to vote for paragraph 8 and for the resolution as a whole. (applause from the left)
that concludes the vote.
in writing. this report in essence exports the eu's disastrous common fisheries policy to the solomon islands, and has little to recommend it; therefore i voted against, and am saddened that the house has chosen to endorse it. the common fisheries policy is an unmitigated disaster which should be swept away, not perpetuated and exported to third countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this conciliation outcome. the fact that the title and scope of the directive have been amended to cover optical radiations from artificial sources only is to be welcomed. i hope the commission will learn from this, having originally brought ridicule upon the eu by proposing to ban sunshine - giving a public relations gift to eurosceptics and their ever-supportive media. that unnecessary row could have been avoided, but i welcome this belated acceptance of the european parliament's commonsense decision. now we will have a directive which legitimately seeks to protect workers who work with lasers and electrical welding equipment, those in the steel and glass industries and those in artificial tanning businesses. the accepted guidelines are designed to prevent the acute and long-term effects to the eyes and skin that can occur with high levels of exposure.
in writing. i welcome this report on the protection of workers against risks arising from optical and artificial sources of radiation. i believe it is sensible for parliament to establish exposure limit values, as this provides workers with a safeguard against artificial sources such as lasers, cathode tubes and welding instruments.
in writing. this directive now more clearly applies to artificial radiation, and i welcome it back to parliament and was pleased to vote for it. it is unfortunate that the initial drafts of the legislation gave rise to so many silly stories about the eu attempting to regulate sunlight when the aims of the legislation - to protect european workers from harmful radiation - are so worthy. i am glad that parliament was able to make this legislation sensible by doing our job, and i am pleased to vote for it today.
in writing. today in the votes on the report on 'rules for the protection of chickens kept for meat production', i voted to maximise the protection of our poultry industry against the threats of cheap imports, which already has robbed northern ireland of a poultry factory in recent weeks. it is understandable to be concerned about poultry welfare, but there is no sense in so hyping welfare requirements in the eu that we drive producers out of business and become dependent on imports from far eastern and south american countries where no enforceable welfare restraints apply to production. that serves only to increase the number of poultry reared in appalling conditions. thus, we need to balance animal welfare requirements in the eu with ensuring a viable industry survives. i therefore today in the votes in the parliament opposed any further reduction in stocking density as such will inevitably severely affect the economics of broiler chicken production within europe.
in writing. i registered an abstention on the final vote on the berman report. as a vegetarian, i have strong reservations about the whole meat production business. if the business of rearing livestock for meat continues, and i accept that it will, then i very much believe it should be organic and natural. failing that, standards must be as high as possible.
in writing. this report is very timely, coinciding as it does with the first ever action plan on animal protection. again the eu is taking a lead in improving animal welfare standards. the proposal addresses public concern that the current welfare standards for chickens kept for meat are too low. the result is that broiler chickens suffer from leg disorders and lameness, enlargement of the heart, sudden death syndrome and ammonia burns. the report calls for reduction in stocking density, minimum depth of litter, improved ventilation and a nesting period of at least six hours of uninterrupted darkness. it also looks at the cruelty of beak trimming and only allows it when all other measures to prevent cannibalism are exhausted. i welcome the report, even if some of the above proposals fell. i wanted it to go further but what is here is good for chickens and consumers. healthier birds produce a better quality product. we are not exporting poor animal welfare provisions, rather raising standards for both poultry and people.
in writing. i supported amendments, tabled by my own group and others, which would have strengthened the proposal, in particular those which sought lower stocking densities, and highlighted the food safety implications of poor welfare conditions. although most of the stronger amendments failed, i voted for the report in the hope that the commission proposal will lead to some progress in addressing significant welfare problems in the chicken meat sector.
in writing. i welcome this report and believe it is very timely due to the recently adopted results of the first ever action plan on animal protection. the report shows that once again the eu is taking a leading role in actively improving animal welfare standards. the proposal addresses a difficult issue of public concern as the current welfare standards for chickens kept for meat production are very low, leading to painful leg disorders and lameness, ascites (enlargement of the heart), sudden death syndrome and ammonium burns. i welcome the agriculture committee's proposals but i believe the proposals did not go far enough. it is for this reason that i supported the jørgensen amendments and i am disappointed that they were not adopted by parliament.
in writing. mr president, this report on the welfare of broiler chickens is long overdue. it is time the eu took action to improve the wellbeing of broiler hens across the eu, many of which live in apalling circumstances during their short lives. it is unfortunate that a number of my group's amendments to this report did not pass, though the report itself goes some way to raising standards and i was glad to support it.
in writing. i welcome this timely report on the challenges posed by globalisation to the internal market of the european union. this is an issue whose importance was emphasised on 27 october 2005 by the heads of state and government of the european union at the uk presidency's informal summit at hampton court. as a member of the international trade committee i have been pressing for social and environmental concerns to be taken into account in an era of globalisation and against the background of the rise of china, india and brazil. this is not simple protectionism: my concerns arise from the need to ensure that liberalisation of the world economy, particularly through the multilateral trading system, should not lead to a lowering of employment and social standards or a race to the bottom. whilst i therefore supported amendments to increase preferential access to the eu market for those third countries which have ratified and appropriately applied core international labour and environmental standards as an added incentive, i believe that the commission should work more closely with the ilo to investigate and inform itself of the observance and enforcement of these core standards in practice, so as to safeguard against future abuses of the new gsp+ system.
in writing. this report was an opportunity to take a view of what sort of impact globalisation has had on the internal market, but sadly this report has missed that opportunity. my group was therefore unable to support it.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which had been substantially strengthened at committee stage through the adoption of all nine amendments i had tabled. the overwhelming decision of the european parliament to support an area of protected waters around the north of scotland is very welcome indeed. meps from around europe have recognised the importance of these waters to scotland's northern communities. the commission must now recognise that the principle of unrestricted access to waters is unsustainable. fishing rights must be allocated to the communities who depend on them. that is now the political will of the european parliament and no amount of lobbying by those who demand equal access to waters and resources should be allowed to undermine that. parliament's vote is a rare example of good news coming from europe for scotland's fishermen and i call upon the council of ministers, who will make the final decision, to follow our lead.
in writing. i welcome the report on the shetland and plaice boxes. i am delighted that the commission decided to retain the shetland box and the plaice box and i welcome the fact that parliament has backed this proposal; the three-year extension is good for conservation and good for scottish fishing interests.
in writing. mr president, i personally welcome our rapporteur on this important issue back to strasbourg. i was pleased to support the report, as the measures in it are important in ameliorating the disastrous effects of the common fisheries policy. the cfp should be swept away; it has been a disaster for fishing communities, the fishing industry and indeed the fish themselves. it does europe no favours, as it clearly diminishes the eu in the eyes of our citizens to have such an unworkable policy.
in writing. mr president, this important report highlights an important potential for europe. my own country, scotland, is potentially a world leader in renewable energy advantages, but because of domestic inaction we have not yet capitalised on this. this report shows how the eu can help encourage growth in this vital future technology and i am pleased to support it, even though a few of the key recommendations were not passed by the house.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i can assure the house that frits bolkestein is alive and kicking, and that is why martin schulz is looking so bruised these days! this parliament must make a choice. down the route of reform lies a dynamic, competitive union which creates jobs, wealth and opportunity for its citizens. down the path of protectionism lies short-term gain for some, and long-term loss for all, especially our 20 million unemployed. (applause) 70% of europe’s economy and workforce relies on a healthy service sector, a sector being slowly strangled by a mindless mass of regulation. mrs gebhardt says ‘think of small businesses’. it is because we think of them that we want the country of origin principle. 90% of service companies are smes. the country of origin principle allows them to assess, and then to test a foreign market. they send people over to do market research. then they trade to test it before setting up an office or a subsidiary. doing away with the country of origin principle reduces the growth effects of this measure by half. liberals and democrats favour a search for compromise, but compromise between mutually exclusive policies is no compromise. we call it the ‘berlin blockage’. this directive does not usher in social dumping. if they are in any doubt, mr schulz and mr rasmussen should read the 1996 directive on the posting of workers. it is still in force. rather, the draft before us transforms principles like the free market of goods, services, capital and people into reality for 450 million people. these are founding principles of our union which are simply not compatible with second-class citizenship for our new member states. certainly there will be hard decisions to take, but our task is not to protect one sector over another. it is to legislate for the good of the european economy as a whole. if we can create a single market in services to rival our single market in goods, we can raise gdp by nearly 2% and create up to 2.5 million new jobs. that is what frits bolkestein wanted for europe. to allow member states to justify barriers to service provision on the basis of social policy and consumer protection would drive a lance through the heart of his proposal. however, we would not be contemplating such an emasculation of draft legislation if mr barroso and his commissioners had defended their draft directive instead of tilting at windmills. does commissioner mccreevy believe that his cabinet’s lobbying of parliament last week advanced the case for europe’s single market? does he not know that paragraph 3 in compromise amendment 293 is contrary to ecj jurisprudence and the treaty’s provision on the free movement of services? i hope, commissioner mccreevy, that you will answer that point in your reply. no, rather than showing the way, this commission cowers in the shadows of public opinion and member states’ hesitation. greater productivity, more jobs, higher wages, stronger companies: these are all within our grasp and that is why i urge the house to vote to make europe a dynamic marketplace for jobs and services. (loud applause from the centre and right)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, how well i remember the declaration of the lisbon agenda in this very chamber. we were going to become the world’s most dynamic and vibrant economy, with full employment. well, here we are, over halfway through, and what do we have? twenty million unemployed and, in the eurozone, desperately low growth rates and a complete collapse of foreign direct investment. we are stumbling around in an economic desert, but rather like the soldiers – the french foreign legionnaires in beau geste – suddenly we have seen a vision: the services directive. it is going to give us a free market, liberal economics and the solution to all our woes. sadly, of course, it is a mirage, because nothing is ever as it seems in the european union. this belief that yet more legislation will improve things is wrong every time. when we talked in 1999 about the creation of a single market in financial services, all my friends in the real world in the city of london said: ‘nigel, you have got it wrong’. i am fairly used to people telling me that i have got it wrong. but, seven years on, what has happened? we have a financial services action plan, we have the implementation of 42 new directives and the burden on financial services is heavier than it was before. businesses are leaving every day and moving to switzerland and bermuda and the same thing will happen with the services directive. the application of this directive will vary from country to country. the commission will say that we need more harmonisation measures to make it work. the burden on business will increase and, worst of all, it will be the european court of justice that can legislate and decide on all this. this directive represents yet another massive shift of power from the member states to these failing institutions. they will no longer be able to run their own economies. we shall vote ‘no’. (applause from the ind/dem group)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – mr president, on behalf of the budgetary control committee, i should like to say how pleased we were that all our points were taken up by the rapporteur. everyone in this house knows how much time has been spent on this directive. judging by the compromise amendments tabled by the ppe-de group and the pse group, there has been quite a lot of st valentine’s spirit around in the past month. it is a shame that these compromises go so far from the text adopted in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, after some heroic efforts by mr harbour, the shadow rapporteur. personally, i can understand that there are times when concessions are necessary, but not these compromises, not now in a europe where there is an obvious need for economic reform. president barroso, as a reformed communist, knows that often in politics the most noise comes from the political extremes. very often it is the left that shouts the loudest. indeed, about 30 000 people are marching in strasbourg today, wanting to protect the markets in which they operate. whilst that may make them feel more comfortable in the short term, it does not help them in their employment prospects in the long term. they forget the 20 million people currently unemployed across our continent. if we do not liberalise, if we do not maintain the country-of-origin principle, that 20 million will be joined by many others in the future and many others will continue to stagnate. as you would expect, mr president, as a conservative i do not often agree with my prime minister, mr blair. however, i agree with his government when it says that this directive has been watered down too much already. i wonder if his own meps do. it is a challenge to this house, through voting for the amendments passed in the internal market committee, to fashion a directive that allows europe to walk the walk and not just talk the talk of liberalisation, and that creates new jobs and does not just protect the status quo.
mr president, it is more than two years since i started working on this directive and i have been convinced from the beginning that its objectives and the ambition to tackle the barriers to the internal market for services have been absolutely right. why has it taken two years? we had it at the end of the last parliament; we have seen some of the issues raised by the many speeches here today, which, in many cases, have vastly overplayed the problems but underplayed the opportunities. with some of the high-flown rhetoric we have heard today about issues like social dumping and so on, which i have never been in any way convinced would arise from this directive, it is most important that we do not forget the opportunities, so i shall talk a little about those tonight. firstly, i particularly want to thank all the members of my group on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection who have worked so tirelessly with me to reshape this text. i calculate that three-quarters of all the amendments to the text that we will vote on on thursday originated from our group. in particular, the whole idea of a central clause called ‘freedom to provide services’ was developed by us in the run-up to the committee vote. that will form the basis for the compromise that i want to commend to all my colleagues this afternoon. i also want to thank our colleagues in the alde and uen groups who helped us achieve a very important result in the committee back in november. this is one of the subjects to have attracted the most debate and argument over the last two years. this will be the final debate of this cycle, but i am sure we will have many more. at the heart of the debate has been mrs gebhardt, a very hardworking and determined rapporteur. even though she is not listening to me – i think she is working on her voting list – i want to pay tribute to her and the very courteous and painstaking way in which she has led our work on a very complicated and difficult proposal. i said that i wanted to look at the impact of the directive as a whole, because we should be thinking particularly about small and medium-sized businesses, which are constantly frustrated at their inability to access the internal market at the moment. there is a whole range of provisions in this proposal – no less than 81 provisions on member states – to deal with these sorts of barriers, because businesses want to be able to go into markets; they want to be able to start up without unnecessary and bureaucratic barriers; they want to be able to send their experts to other countries. but they also want to know that they will not be subject to disproportionate and unnecessary restrictions and that includes requiring them to comply with duplicate sets of rules and authorisations when they have already complied with them in their own country. i do not think that is reasonable. the european courts do not think that is reasonable and that is contained in this compromise. if that is the devastating country-of-origin principle, then what have we been arguing about all this time? it is there in the law of the court of justice. my reading of this compromise is that it is not in any way eroded and we must make sure that it is not eroded when we come to the vote. the role of the commission has been mentioned. if commissioner mccreevy will also listen to me – everybody is having conversations while i am addressing them –he, as the commissioner, has a crucial responsibility to take this forward. i do not want him just to produce a proposal based word for word on this text. we need to do more work on it, because it needs to deliver benefits for business, otherwise there is no point in having it at all. i think we can do that. i say in conclusion to mr bartenstein – and i am still wearing my austrian tie, because i told him i would wear it for as long as we were in sight of a clear agreement – he can still get this on the table of the economic summit in march if he puts his mind to it. (applause)
madam president, i too would like to add my voice to those who have thanked mrs gebhardt and mrs van lancker for their considerable work on this. listening to the debate this afternoon, i have a feeling that the vote has already taken place, because people are talking with such certainty about what is in and what is out. nothing is out until we vote on thursday morning. it is certainly clear that this directive needed a rewrite. it is a pity that parliament is doing it; we asked the commission to take it off the table and rewrite it, but it would not do so. as others have said, many of us here have found that the commission’s behaviour during the whole debate about the directive has been highly problematic. we have been unable to get clarity; unable to get answers to specific questions; and there has been a lack of public response to amendments tabled, not least in our committee meetings, as well as a lack of an effective social impact assessment, which might have gone some way to allaying public fears about what is in this. it is true that there are few issues of disagreement, but they are certainly extremely important ones. if we are looking at the international context, to some of us that is about gats, where we have heard certain things about what is really, in theory, on the table and then we hear about background negotiating positions which are leading to something else. many of us have had big problems with the whole country of origin theory – i do not think it is a principle – and how this, for example, might fit with the ability of member states to seek higher standards, which is also allowed. again, many of our questions about how the overriding public interest will come into play in this have not been fully answered. i would agree that health should be taken out of this directive; it should never have been there in the first place, and many of us look forward to a speedy proposal from the commission on the issues of patient mobility and not service mobility, which is why it should not have been in the directive in the first place. (applause)
madam president, in the tension between totally free market access and the preservation of indigenous national employment, i unapologetically see the priority as protecting local jobs. hence the country-of-origin principle, particularly in its original form in the proposed directive, is for me a bridge too far: it would be injurious to home-grown employment to permit service providers to operate in the host country of their choice without, unlike local providers, being subject to the same costly restraints in labour, consumer and environmental legislation. thus local employers, employees and, ultimately, local consumers, would be the losers. competition must not just be free: it must also be fair, and it seems to me that principle is being swept aside. my second area of objection to this directive is its scope. i cannot accept that it should apply to core public services. every nation owes a duty to provide such services and that duty should not be evaded, or the quality of such services diminished, by allowing them to be provided by the cheapest cowboy source. commercial services are one thing, but core public services, like social housing and welfare provision, are something quite different and should not be the plaything of profit-driven providers. thus this is a directive which i cannot, and will not, support.
thank you for that answer, but may i remind you that, unlike the united states supreme court, which is appointed by the federal institutions of the us, our court of justice is actually appointed by the member states, yet it seems to be member states themselves that complain about some of its judgments. the court cannot intervene in any issue: it can only deal with disputes that are referred to it. i shall finish with the words of a former president of the court of justice, who said, ‘the court does not take political decisions but it does sometimes have to remind politicians of the decisions that they have taken’.
i welcome this excellent initiative taken under the british presidency. however, i ask whether the council agrees that the principle that it should legislate in public should logically be applied to all legislation and not just to codecision legislation? will the council consider in due course extending this decision, so that all legislation is enacted in public? arguably, it is even more important that, when legislation that does not necessarily need the approval of this house is enacted by the council, it is enacted as transparently as possible.
(the speaker spoke irish)i urge you to reject the services directive. the recent irish ferries dispute illustrated what the future could hold for workers and workers’ rights under the services directive and similarly many of commissioner mccreevy’s public comments in recent times have highlighted dangers to workers’ rights and collective bargaining. the directive commercialises almost all services within the eu. it will deprive millions of quality public services. it disproportionately affects women, both as the majority of workers in the service sector and as users of those services, and i agree with points made this evening about decisions ending up with the court of justice. people marched in their tens of thousands today to oppose this, but we put governments on notice: the struggle will be at its most intense at national level.
mr president, my predecessor, mr philip whitehead mep, would have been proud to have spoken on behalf of the committee on internal market and consumer protection. he would have been proud of the work done by our rapporteur, mrs gebhardt, and all the members who have worked so hard to improve and amend the commission proposal. he would have wanted to have been here to witness the mature and responsible way in which this parliament is building a consensus on behalf of our citizens for the opening of the market on services. if we get it right, we can open up the market, boost jobs and growth across the eu and help europe compete globally with the booming services market in india and china. the bolkestein proposal was flawed because it failed to recognise that if you want the public to support the opening-up of the market you have to convince them of the benefits and reassure them that it will not undermine working or consumer rights. if you want to encourage citizens to support change and reform, you have to explain to them what is in it for them, for their own life prospects. it is parliament which is speaking for the citizen and taking up the issues of all our citizens, businesses, consumers, workers and the unemployed. so let us make it simple. we need to end the ludicrous discriminatory practices that are stopping our businesses from getting a foothold in the european market. why should a business have to apply to join a local chamber of commerce, only to be told there is a five-year waiting list? why should a business have to set up four offices and pay a eur 500 000 deposit? the black economy is thriving in europe in the services sector because these complex and costly barriers are encouraging businesses to engage in undeclared and illegal work. let us make them legal with these rules. let us get rid of protectionism, but protect consumers and working rights. i believe consumers can see the benefit of choice and competition if they can be sure that if something goes wrong they can have a speedy remedy in a local court and they do not have to chase down a bad provider to lisbon, paris, warsaw or london to have their rights recognised. this is what we are trying to achieve in these compromises. those working in the service sector need the guarantee that their employment rights are protected. this is not about old or new europe. this is not about left or right. citizens are looking to us to make the right choice: to get rid of crippling protectionism in the single market in services and protect working and consumer rights. i believe that if we get it right it will be a victory for parliamentary democracy and a boost to jobs and growth for future generations of europeans. finally, i would like to ask the commission to look at ensuring that these single points of delivery, these one-stop-shops that are so vital to delivering, monitoring and supervising the kind of services we want. it should look at setting up an eu trust mark or an eu quality assurance scheme to give the consumer the trust and the confidence to use these services which respect consumers’ rights and working rights.
mr president, so much has been said today, but my hope is that whatever form of compromise we vote on thursday, it will represent a step forward. i hope that it will underline and take forward the long-standing basic treaty freedom to provide services, and that at last we will make this existing freedom more of a reality than it has been to date. however, let us learn one clear lesson for the future from all of this: a matter of such importance deserves thorough and long-standing preparation, particularly preparation of europe’s public – the citizens we seek to represent and who in large number we seem to have managed to antagonise over this proposal. compare this with 1992: the years of preparation, the number of separate pieces of legislation, the final and general excitement to welcome the free market in goods. contrast that with this present method: one far-reaching proposal for a directive literally dumped on the table at the end of the last mandate. this cannot be the way to do things. i hope indeed that we will learn the lesson for the future about communicating europe. '
mr president, the commissioner will be relieved that we are getting very close to the end. i am the third to last speaker. it was last april, in the heat of the run-up to the french referendum vote, that the committee on industry, research and energy adopted mr chatzimarkakis’ opinion on the services directive. that opinion challenged the then prevalent hostility to this directive, with the absurdly exaggerated claims about polish plumbers and social dumping that were then being thrown around. from its very first directly elected plenary in 1979, this parliament has championed the cause of a truly free and open single market, as envisaged in the original treaties. out of an internal subcommittee of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, of which i was proud to be a member, came the kangaroo group and the 1992 single market programme under the single european act of 1985. i find it difficult to understand or justify why services were left out of that enterprise. now is our opportunity to emulate the courage and foresight of our predecessors and make sure that a real single market in services is implemented. trade unionists, french ‘no’ voters, french plumbers: truly there is nothing to be afraid of. just as a single market in goods has provided new, more and better jobs, so will the services directive, if we vote through a strong and liberal version. it can provide the opportunities that everyone seeks, especially in smes, as an essential element of a successful, competitive and prosperous european economy. the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy, which took a liberal line, was supported by 34 votes to 6, by conservatives, liberals and even most of the socialists. i hope we can look to parliament as a whole to adopt a similarly courageous and far-sighted position. adam smith was right: freed-up trade works; a really free and open market in services will work and get more and more europeans back into work.
seventy per cent of europe’s gdp is now based on services. the biggest gap in completing the single european market is in the services sector. if we could create a dynamic single market for services, around 600 000 new jobs could be created in the eu. removing the administrative and technical barriers to companies operating outside their own country is therefore a desirable and important objective and opens up the sector to fair competition. however, driving down workers’ rights, wages and health and safety measures has no part in creating a dynamic service sector and that is why i will be voting for amendments that exclude labour law and free collective bargaining from the scope of the directive. i also believe that certain services such as health, social services and aspects of education are so sensitive that they should not be covered by this particular measure.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, commissioner, i would like to talk about the potential offered by the international financing facility proposed by the uk chancellor gordon brown. the iff leverages money from international capital markets by issuing bonds which can potentially raise usd 50 billion each year from 2005 to 2015. the advantage of this, referring to some of the points you raised in your introduction, commissioner, is that this money is frontloaded, it is long term, it is stable and it is predictable money. it raises one billion a year, which can be used to get children into school and to abolish the fees that jeopardise the education of millions of children in developing countries, especially little girls. the iff has already put in place a pilot scheme for immunisation, which is searching for vaccines for malaria and for hiv/aids – the scourge in africa and many other parts of the world – for which there is no cure. the agreement is to provide a global advanced purchasing scheme to make sure that life-saving vaccines are commercially produced at affordable prices and that these are produced in ways of which we in this parliament should all approve and which we should find essential at this time. we acknowledge that meeting the millennium development goals, which is part of the purpose of this debate, is difficult, but if we can put the money in place – predictable money – then we will get every child into school and we will prevent the needless deaths of 30 000 children every day. that is what we are talking about; that is about us trying to translate hope into reality. when he heard about the iff, nelson mandela said that it was an absolutely necessary and timely initiative that deserves an active response from the international community. i very much hope that the european union will support this initiative firmly and in a very committed way.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, my group welcomes this resolution. there is broad consensus that under-financing and under-investment, in africa in particular, have played a significant part in holding developing countries back. economists like the american jeremy sachs admit that development assistance to africa to date has been peanuts when measured against the scale of infrastructure investment that is required. the title of this resolution is somewhat restrictive and mentions a new financial instrument as if there were only one solution to the problem, but the text is fortunately much broader. the nub of the problem is that we have to find ways to finance development over and above the national commitment to 0.7%. the resolution floats the idea of a solidarity contribution on air tickets, but that should not be the only avenue, and like mrs kinnock i should like to suggest other possibilities. firstly, member states can simply decide to accelerate the timetable for reaching the 0.7% gdp target and indeed go beyond it. in britain the liberal democrats have pledged to reach the 0.7% by 2011, two years ahead of the deadline set by the present uk government. secondly, there is a role for foreign direct investment. no country has ever been lifted out of poverty by aid alone and countries which have enjoyed the most spectacular rates of development, such as china, have enjoyed high levels of fdi. the problem is that when foreign investment is negotiated via bilateral investment treaties or as proposed by the wto at cancún, it can involve exploitation of the weaker partner and the waiving of environmental and social protection. what is needed is a new international investment agreement under the auspices of the un commission on sustainable development. in conclusion, we should explore as many ways as possible for levering extra investment into development, but the methods we choose must have public support and they must never be covert.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i thank the commissioner. one of the reasons why we are discussing this issue tonight is because there is an international conference in paris at the end of this month, a key opportunity to make progress on the subject of innovative sources of finance for development. my group particularly welcomes the fact that this meeting looks set to agree an air ticket levy with proceeds going to benefit some of the world’s poorest people. of course there are a range of other tools and instruments as well. mrs kinnock has already spoken very eloquently about the benefits of the iff. however, i believe that the air ticket levy is also important because it marks a turning point in the quest for the introduction of global levies for the financing of global development needs. it deserves our full support. i would stress, however, that the new finances must be genuinely new: in other words, additional to, and not a substitute for, existing development budgets. i am very glad that the commission will be represented at the meeting in paris, but i would like to know whether it has plans to encourage the other member states to go, whether there will be a mechanism for feeding back to parliament the results of the meeting in paris, and whether there are plans to share the contents of the workshop that took place on 9 february between the commission and the council. i am sure that many of us would be very interested to know.
mr president, for some years iran has sought to export its fundamentalist revolution beyond its shia lands to sunni population areas, including palestine, where, through syria and its proxy terrorist hezbollah, it liaises with islamic jihad and hamas, both committed to theocracies under sharia law. a nuclear-armed iran is therefore particularly dangerous to western security, and that of israel in particular. there is no consensus on how to deal with iran, which is in clear breach of the npt treaty and its agreements with britain, france and germany, but i welcome the 3 february vote by the iaea to refer iran to the united nations security council. i also welcome china and russia’s belated support. the traditional compact – whereby iran supports russia in the oic over chechnya in exchange for russian support in supplying nuclear technology, and its security council veto when necessary – seems now to be dissolving. china naturally rejects further nuclear proliferation and is also worried by its own home-grown islamist threats. iran’s intransigence and refusal of the reasonable russian offer on enrichment of uranium has been a wake-up call to russia and china. only syria, cuba and venezuela rejected the proposal. the iranians immediately pledged to resume commercial-scale enrichment of uranium, which can be used either as a fuel for power plants or, as they really wish, in the core of an atom bomb. they have ordered an end to the unannounced visits by the iaea inspectors. western intelligence alleges that iran is using a network of front companies to try and buy components for missile and bomb production from western europe and to hire impoverished nuclear scientists from the former soviet union. i agree with all those who say that all options must be left available to the west to prevent a nuclear-armed iran. i ridicule the appeasing statement by the united kingdom foreign secretary jack straw, who claims that military action is inconceivable, whereas his boss, prime minister tony blair, rightly refuses to rule it out.
mr president, it is estimated that iran could have nuclear weapons within three to ten years, although the point of no return in stopping that development could be reached much sooner. dealing with iran has been made all the harder by the iraq war, which was not just a disaster but could turn out to be an act of geopolitical folly. the iranian regime cannot be allowed to develop nuclear weapons. it is a religious fundamentalist, barbaric, pro-terrorist and anti-semitic regime. the world became used to the nuclear stand-off between the democratic west and the communist east during the cold war, but in that confrontation, disaster was avoided because ultimately both sides were rational. the religious fundamentalists of iran are not rational. an iranian nuclear device could turn out to be the biggest suicide bomb the world has ever seen. in this situation all the options are dangerous but the most dangerous option is doing nothing at all.
in writing. i welcome this directive, the objective of which is to increase safety standards and to improve the operation of the community air traffic control system. i am glad that the council and parliament were able to reach a satisfactory compromise on the amendments that we adopted at first reading.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party supports the resolution on iran, its condemnation of various remarks made by the president of iran, and its serious concern regarding the present attitude of the iranian authorities to the nuclear programme. the eplp also gives its strong support to the involvement and initiatives of the eu-3, the iaea and the un security council, confirming the need to pursue peaceful and diplomatic means to solve the crisis. the british government's position is that military action remains inconceivable and is not on the agenda.
in writing. since the unexpected victory of the new iranian president, mr. mahmoud ahmadinejad, an increasingly tense situation has emerged between iran and the international community, leading to a series of negotiations amongst member states over iran's desires for the development of nuclear energy. i welcome the development of nuclear power when it is for civil use. it is for this reason that all possible diplomatic pressures should be applied to the government of iran to get it to conform to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, so that any suspicions can be ruled out. i must emphasise that the people of iran should not be demonised or blamed in any way; our dispute is solely with its leadership and i regret the recent comments by president ahmadinejad on israel.
mr president, i strongly welcome the trip by president barroso and commissioner rehn as a visible demonstration of our commitment to the western balkans’ eu future. let us hope that mr karadžić and mr mladić will be found while they are there. bosnia’s constitutional reform is vital, not as an interesting intellectual exercise, but in order that the state can put in place efficiently the regulations and policies necessary for economic success, including eu trade opportunities. i strongly support the recent commission green paper. i particularly hoped for visa facilitation to come before too long, as a practical demonstration of the freedom that europe means for bosnians, alongside the hard work it entails. i hope you will not find me too partisan if i say that, while lord ashdown’s tenure has not been without controversy, he has demonstrated enormous dedication to the cause of bosnia’s european future, helping it on the road from dayton to brussels. the door is open, and we want bosnia to come through.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, 19 march marks the belarus presidential election, in which there is still a chance that the country will assume its rightful place in the european family of democracies and conduct a free and fair election. however, in reality, the chances are very small, as president lukashenko, since his election in 1994, has turned his country into a self-isolated police state and a sham democracy. the already poor human rights situation has deteriorated further since the passing of the anti-revolutionary law, aimed at suppressing protests, and many opposition leaders are jailed on spurious offences of corruption or, in some cases, simply made to disappear, presumably murdered. mr lukashenko preaches a curious pan-slavic, anti-western nationalism, with an added cult of personality. independent polls give him around 55% support. it is believed that he will do whatever is necessary to achieve the magic figure of 77%. registration for candidates is due by 21 february, and i salute the courage of the united opposition candidate, alexander milinkevich, who will be restricted in his campaign to two 30-minute tv and radio interviews, whereas mr lukashenko will spend what he likes and appear as head of state on the media daily, accusing his opponents of being thugs or western mercenaries. i call on belarus to allow for the right for independent exit polls to be conducted to help verify the results, but this request is unlikely to be heeded. not surprisingly, this parliament has not been invited to observe the elections, but the conference of presidents should authorise a budget for meps to attend via the osce. russia also needs to be reminded that, as it bankrolls the regime with very cheap gas at usd 50 per 1 000 m3, it should support democracy there, being a full member of the council of europe. lastly, i welcome, as commissioner borg mentioned, the tacis eur 2 million dedicated to free broadcasting in belarus and supporting civil society.
thank you, commissioner. can i push you a bit further on that last point you made, because up until then i was a little disappointed with what you were saying in implying that the legislation was already there. i could give you any number of examples about which i am concerned, but i shall give you just one. nestlé ‘cheerios’ is a breakfast cereal which has 21% sugar and a great deal of salt. they produce their own colouring book and encourage children to eat more and more of this product according to how much they are colouring in. the eu already legislates, as you outlined in your remarks, but you also implied that this legislation was the basis that could be used. if no new legislation is necessary, can i urge you to look again at the existing measures and self-regulation – which i am not at all certain is accurate – and see whether they are working or whether they need strengthening?
unlike my colleague, i am delighted that you are not proposing any further legislation today. your view is absolutely right. i thank you also for reminding us that this is an issue about diet, physical activity and health. it is very easy to carry on bashing the food industry, but would you not agree that it is time for people to recognise that individuals have responsibility for their own lives and that exercise plays a huge part in what is clearly an important issue?
member of the commission. there is no doubt that we have confidence that members of parliament will act as ambassadors for the european union. it is up to all of us to do that. i believe that europe is simply too big and there are so many misunderstandings in europe today that none of us, even if we tried wholeheartedly, can address them properly. i believe that any action we can take to raise awareness of what the european union really is might bring us better results. i agree with the honourable member that it is up to all of us, members of parliament and the commission, but the action we are proposing is also important.
member of the commission. the commission wishes to inform the honourable member that eur 7.6 million will be allocated to the prince budget line for the 2006 budget, which is intended to finance actions as foreseen under plan d to highlight the debate during the period of reflection decided by the june 2005 european council. this budget will be managed as follows: a call for a proposal of eur 2 million will be launched in the following weeks to give support to pan-european projects aimed at creating the conditions for citizens’ debates on eu issues. it will be aimed at supporting eu citizens’ networking and participation in the debate on europe. it will be aimed at collecting citizens’ opinions, especially through qualitative means and extensive scale and it will be aimed at providing analyses of citizens’ contributions as feedback for decision-makers. in addition, eur 850 000 will be allocated for setting up specific information products. on a complementary basis, in order to stimulate the implementation of plan d at a local level, eur 4.5 million will be decentralised to the commission’s representations in order to develop debates at regional and local levels and to improve synergy and coordination between national, regional and eu levels for the implementation of plan d. this eur 4.5 million will be executed either by calls for proposals or by procurement. finally, eur 250 000 will be requested to develop a website especially devoted to the debate about europe. on a broader scale, the commission has already expressed its disappointment about the recent agreement of the european council to cut the global appropriations of the next financial perspective, heading 3, in a situation where the debate on europe is becoming truly crucial.
i welcome the commission’s answer. i am glad that the focus of this is towards civil society and ngos and towards listening to their views, rather than just listening to tabloid newspapers and other protagonists of the debate. may i also say that while the focus has up to now in this period of reflection been more on the context rather than on the text of the constitution, does the commission accept that we will in due course have to bring the debate forward to discuss what we are actually going to do about this text, maybe not this year, but certainly next year?
member of the commission. of course i think that attention should also be paid to the substance and questions which you underlined. as you said, maybe not this year, maybe next year, but attention should be given to that also.
commissioner, given the commission’s desire to control its own propaganda – as evidenced by commissioner wallström’s announcement recently of her proposal for a politically-controlled european news outlet, the ebs – what confidence can exist that any attempt will be made at striking a balance in terms of the distribution of funding between organisations and individuals promoting a pro-constitution stance and those who promote an anti-constitution stance?
thank you, commissioner. i am talking about the fact that the collateral damage from the effects of the reform of the sugar regime has been felt by the 18 protocol countries. you say that they had eur 40 million between 18 countries. three commissioners – you, mr mandelson and the president of the commission – pledged eur 190 million to the acp countries. i am now following that very closely. we can see no place in the budget for that money; we can see no likelihood of anything like the amount you promised to them being included in the budget. however hard this parliament tries, it is very difficult in terms of the budgetary allocation that we have to make sure that we ring-fence the kind of money that we need. will you, commissioner, urge the council to agree that we should ring-fence the money in any unallocated money that we may find under heading iv? will you make it your business to protect the acp sugar-producing countries at this time, when they are feeling so vulnerable?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, it seems to me that the biggest risk that farmers face every year is that agriculture, and ultimately their livelihoods, are controlled by the european union. the debacle that britain suffered during the foot-and-mouth outbreak in 2001, is eloquent testimony to what happens when crises are managed by the eu. it is not widely known that the strategy for dealing with that disaster was managed by the then commissioner for agriculture, and what a complete pig’s breakfast he made of that. millions of healthy animals were needlessly slaughtered in an orgy of killing and burning that shocked the world. furthermore, the roots of the disaster lay with the eu and its destruction of local slaughterhouses through excessive regulation. i am gratified to see that the report acknowledges that the cap has ‘encouraged the development of non-sustainable production methods heavily dependent on water and energy’. but, judging by this weekend’s newspaper revelations that the eu has a surplus of four billion bottles of wine, costing the taxpayers a billion a year, not much has been learnt in that area. i would ask members to reject this report, until a study has been made of the practical implications and the cost of implementing its recommendations. it seems to me that trying to protect farmers against everything, including weather aberrations such as storms, as this report indicates, will be extremely expensive and possibly fruitless in the end, because who can predict the unpredictable?
mr president, i thank mr graefe zu baringdorf for his report. it is good to see the commissioner here this evening, because the commission has put forward a flexible approach to crisis management in agriculture. animal diseases and natural disasters are going to happen and we must find a flexible approach to these. the cap reform is now moving towards offering help for farmers to help themselves. that really has to be the way forward. if you take what happened with the foot-and-mouth disease in the uk, the huge sums of money that were needed to eradicate the disease could never have been funded by an insurance company on its own. we should perhaps look at a form of insurance with the member state and the european union as the insurer of last resort, so that they can actually step in when there are huge disasters. mr graefe zu baringdorf referred to young farmers in his report. there is a special case for a certain amount of extra help for those setting up business early on in their career, because they do not have the capital behind them and they need extra support. if mr titford had still been in the chamber, i would have liked to take him up on his comment that commissioner fischler and the european commission were to blame for the mishandling of the foot-and-mouth crisis. had he been part of the inquiry here in the european parliament, he would have found that was not the case. i have to admit to you that the blame lay with the uk government and a prime minister who was hell bent on calling a general election and wanted to get the disease under control. he had a huge contiguous cull of millions of animals that was completely unnecessary. we could have used vaccines, which were also ruled out. i would have liked to put mr titford right on that and other points.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional development. – mr president, commissioner, the thanks of the committee on regional development are due to mrs mcguinness, not just for the quality of her final report, but also for her close cooperation with us in producing it. although the original commission proposal contains much of value, we have concerns about certain aspects. these include, in particular: the need for more recognition of the diversity of rural areas; greater clarity on the activities to which the individual axes are addressed; fuller attention under axis 1 to forestry, the fuel chain and renewable energy resources; additional detail under axis 2 as to the environmental goods to be promoted, including preservation of the cultural, as well as the natural, heritage; and a heavier emphasis under axis 3 on measures to improve the quality of life and social inclusion in rural areas in parallel with, and as an aspect of, maintaining and developing employment. on a broader level, the committee wishes to stress the promotion of both sustainability and territorial cohesion with the need for an integrated approach that would embody appropriate spatial planning and foster coherence between the actions engendered by all sources of european funding. in that context, we emphasise the importance of the partnership principle and of the broadest possible involvement of all competent authorities and appropriate bodies in developing strategies at regional and/or national level as appropriate to the member state concerned. we are delighted by the extent to which the report addresses our concerns and commend its content to the commission, recognising, with thanks to the commissioner, that she has already touched on some of these issues in her introduction. we commend it to the council and to parliament as a whole.
mr president, funding for rural development is a key issue. it should not, as the rapporteur has said, involve robbing the first pillar in order to fund the second. nor must we lose sight of the fact that the core and single most important component for the development of rural regions is the maintenance of sustainable agriculture at the very heart of their economies. thus a funding formula reliant on a smash-and-grab raid on the single farm payment through excessive modulation is simply not acceptable, particularly in circumstances where there is no necessity for matching national funding. there are four particular points that i want to support: first of all, the use of funds to encourage new entrants, to assist the essential transition of farm families from one generation to the next; secondly, the prioritisation of funding to allow for the modernisation of farms and help with meeting higher animal welfare and environmental standards; thirdly, maximum regional flexibility on the implementation of the rural development programme must be secured and built upon; and fourthly and finally, the proposal for village renewal and the preservation of rural heritage is vitally important in revitalising and sustaining the rural communities. this is a good report. it is obviously the product of hard work by the rapporteur and i congratulate her on her efforts.
mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on an excellent report. the future of the rural economy depends on the success or otherwise of our future policy from 2007 to 2013. i must say i am concerned that there will not be sufficient funds to achieve a positive outcome to sustain the future under the second pillar. rural society has been on a downward spiral for many years, and you do not need me to rehearse the problems again. all i know is that there are no easy solutions and we cannot wave a magic wand. the rural economy has evolved over the years and there is now a heavy reliance on environmental projects. this can be a help, but on its own is no panacea for all the problems facing the rural dweller. i believe there is now too much emphasis placed and too much pressure put on such projects. there is no doubt of the need to diversify, but there are not many new ideas out there. yet we must persevere and try to achieve our targets and we require a greater vision in the projects we support, because in the past too many projects in rural areas turned out to be white elephants. as far as we in northern ireland are concerned, we will not see any change unless we achieve a totally different approach from our planning services. they are living in the past, looking through rose-tinted glasses and looking back to a time that no longer exists. if we are to achieve anything in this, we must be adventurous and innovative; we must encourage the development of more small and medium-sized enterprises and more micro-industries in rural areas. if a farmer, his son or his daughter has an opportunity or an idea to develop their farm or to diversify, they should be encouraged to do so and to expand and not be forced into the nearest town or village. this is the way forward. we cannot afford to live in a time warp. one other concern of mine is that some member states will give these proposals good support and others, including my own, will do what they have always done with such initiatives: nothing! the way forward for rural development is one of vision and confidence; above all, we must look to the future!
member of the commission. mr president, i can assure you that at this late hour i will not go into detail. however, for those brave people who are still here, we need to give a decent reply to some of the questions raised. first of all, regarding the economics, it is quite clear that the outcome of the financial perspectives has not been very encouraging to many of us. it is correct that there has been a reduction of almost eur 20 billion for the next financial period, which is all the more reason we have to ensure that the funds are spent as efficiently as possible, and i hope that the strategic guidelines can help us to do that. now we need to continue with the planning. i could not agree more with the rapporteur’s views on broadband. the rural development policy has a role in bridging the digital divide. this year i will be exploring that with my colleague, commissioner reding, to see what can be done. finally, on the question of voluntary modulation, i completely agree with mrs mcguinness. it is quite clear that if we enter into this discussion on voluntary modulation, which is not even cofinanced by member states, that will be the first step towards a re-nationalisation of european agricultural policy, so that farmers in the different member states will have completely different competitive possibilities. that is not acceptable. i congratulate mrs mcguinness on her report. it has received a good response from the members who were here earlier this evening. i have very much enjoyed listening to the debate.
mr president, i should like to make a point of order under rule 166 of the rules of procedure. i refer to a letter dated 8 november 2005 – written to you by myself and by the chairman of the committee on fisheries and signed by the coordinators of all the political groups – concerning the blocking of a report i had written. we have had no reply from your office and i would ask you whether it is normal procedure for you, as president of parliament, not to reply to members of this house? (applause)
mr president, to respond to the rapporteur's point, i want to make it absolutely clear that our discussions on the package – which is entirely intact – were about the inclusion of private health, and this group has had a free vote on it. you will notice that there has been no signal on it whatsoever from the front bench of this group. that was what we said to the socialists yesterday. this was a free vote on whether to include private healthcare within the scope of the directive, not healthcare overall. many people other than members of this group clearly felt that was the case, but that does not alter in any way our commitment to the overall package that we have before us. (applause from the ppe-de group)
mr president, mrs gebhardt may be discovering things about the legal services in this house, but it would appear to my group that mrs frassoni's point is absolutely justified under the rules of our house, and my group supports her request that this amendment be voted. (applause)
mr president, in order to try and be helpful in this rather difficult situation ... (mixed reactions)why all the scepticism? i am here to help! i am quoting rule 168(2). i would suggest that, as this is degenerating into an absolute farce, pursuant to rule 168(2) we move immediately to a vote. i propose that we refer this report back to the committee so that it can come back to parliament and we can vote on it sensibly, because that is not happening now. (mixed reactions)
mr president, i quoted rule 168(2), where i proposed that we move to a vote to refer this back to the committee. the rule, which appears clear to me, states: ‘such a motion shall be put to the vote immediately.’ however, perhaps things have got a little worse since my last comments. therefore, i shall now quote your rules – and, as you said yourself, we must be scrupulous about the rules of this fine establishment. rule 170(4) states: ‘before or during a vote, a political group or at least thirty-seven members may move that the vote be adjourned. such a motion shall be put to the vote immediately.’ it does not matter whether you are against the eu or for the eu, surely all of you in this chamber can see that this is now a farce! mr president, could we please have a vote to adjourn this vote? (applause from the ind/dem group)
in writing. i voted to radically amend – rather than reject – the proposed services directive. we have sought, and i think largely obtained in this first reading, a balance. we want to remove the bureaucratic obstacles to the free circulation of services in our european market, but we do not want to create a situation that will undermine our social services, our labour standards, our health and safety provision or other essential features of protection. we want protection but not protectionism. the amended text achieves a balance that was absent in the original draft.
in writing. the compromise package agreed by the socialist and conservative groups creates an unclear result. for example, the two large groups refused to back an outright exemption of social services from the directive's scope, despite the deep concerns of many working in the social care sector. they did however exempt social services "such as social housing, childcare and family services". this non-exhaustive list of certain social services creates legal uncertainty and it is impossible to judge what social services will be affected by the directive outwith the fields of housing, childcare and family services. the compromise failed to ensure outright exemptions of such key sectors as education, water and culture. the compromise threatens consumer rights by not permitting member states to impose requirements based on consumer protection. for these reasons i voted against the amended report.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues are long-standing and strong supporters of measures to complete the single market in the european union. the liberalisation of services in the internal market is a major step towards this end and offers the successful british services industry many new opportunities to flourish in the future. although we have voted for the final package today, we are disappointed that an opportunity has been missed to agree a truly liberalising directive. we therefore call on the council and the british prime minister to take steps to reinforce the directive without delay. to have voted against this imperfect package and contribute to its failure would have given succour to those on the left in europe who are ideologically opposed to liberalisation, free markets and economic reform. the european economy is urgently in need of liberalisation and we will continue to argue for this when parliament considers this matter further at second reading.
in writing. i voted against this report as i do not believe the final result offers the necessary clarity in a number of areas. it is not clear that we have removed the so-called country-of-origin principle: in fact, it is not clear what the applicable law will be for a company wanting to offer cross-border services on a temporary basis. it is also not clear where the dividing line is for services offered as a public service but by a private provider or sub-contractor. i welcome the removal of patient mobility from the directive - it should never have been included. in fact, the commission's all-embracing proposal has been ill-considered and poorly thought through. i look forward to major amendments in their next proposal.
in writing. i am pleased with the outcome of this historic vote on the internal market in services. it demonstrates the european parliament's ability to handle complex legislation and make vital improvements that take into account the concerns of people in our community: here ensuring that workers and consumers' rights are not undermined by ambitious and forward-thinking legislation. in voting for the amended services directive i supported measures that strike the balance of opening the single market whilst securing workers' social rights and safeguarding our vital public services. opening up the market in services is not merely about boosting big businesses but also about creating jobs and spreading potential economic benefits to consumers and producers of around eur 30 billion. this legislation will give small and medium-sized businesses the chance to provide cross border services, enabling them finally to take advantage of the unique regional integration that a union of 25 states offers without having to enter into costly legal wrangling in the courts. faced with the challenges of thriving markets in services in third countries, such as is the case in india and china, europe needed to grasp this opportunity to improve its competitive edge in a dynamic and growing sector.
in writing. as chair of the internal market and consumer protection committee, i welcome today's historic vote to open up the market in services across europe. this is the final piece in the jigsaw of establishing the internal market. for too long, small and medium-sized enterprises have been prevented by ludicrous red tape from doing business in other eu member states. with more than 53 cases before the european court of justice, where businesses are arguing for their right under the treaty to provide services across europe, it is time for us to set down rules for the operation of the service market. parliament has listened to people's concerns and fears and ensured that the freedom to provide services is not the freedom to undermine citizens' employment terms and conditions and their rights as consumers. we want to end protectionism but protect working people and consumers. we were happy to vote for and support a compromise which delivered this critical balance of interests for citizens across the eu.
in writing. labour meps voted in favour of the amended services directive to end protectionism but to ensure protection of workers and jobs. the deal now on the table was exhaustively discussed to create an ideal outcome for workers and business in the uk. the uk's markets are already liberalised for other eu countries. we must ensure that business, including london business in my constituency, can compete fairly in the rest of the uk. labour meps have worked hard to ensure that uk trade union concerns over terms and conditions have been seriously and faithfully taken up.
in writing. i voted against the inclusion of a new recital 13b in the services directive because stating that the consumer will always benefit from the protection granted to him by the consumer legislation in his member state is misleading and a misrepresentation of the actual legal position.
in writing. i welcome this debate and resolution looking at innovative ways of raising finance to achieve the millennium development goals, whether it be through a levy on air transport or through a tobin-type tax on currency transactions. i have supported and campaigned for the latter for almost a decade now and welcome the fact that both france and belgium have passed the relevant legislation, while it is under consideration in italy, where last year i gave evidence to the italian senate's finance and foreign affairs committee on the subject. whatever the route used to raise funds they must be ring-fenced to help those living in deep poverty, the 1.2 billion living on less than eur 1 a day, to obtain basic housing and education, water and health care. i particularly welcome paragraph 7, which will help boost the work of the stamp out poverty campaign run by david hillman and the tobin tax network.
in writing. i was a signatory to this motion, which i believe sets out a workable eu mechanism to achieve international development goals within the framework of the millennium development goals. achieving those goals has been important to many of my london constituents.
in writing. i believe that one needs to restrict freedom of expression on only the rarest of occasions. of course, it must be illegal to shout 'fire' in a cinema or to directly provoke racial hatred. i find it difficult to understand, on that basis, how nick griffin, the leader of the neo-fascist british nationalist party, was acquitted of promoting racial hatred earlier this month after his comments on both islam and the murdered black teenager stephen lawrence. yet i am not sure i see the danish cartoons that were published falling into that category. they were certainly offensive to many, but that does not mean they meet the same test as promoting racial hatred. certainly, when i see opposition to their publication coming from the fundamentalist christian right in europe, i start to worry that the laws of blasphemy are being dusted off again across europe. the correct position would have been not to forbid publication, but to condemn the content of many of them. as for mr frattini's 'code of conduct' for journalists, it deserved the decision it received. yet if we are going to protect people's deep-rooted beliefs from ridicule, attack or insult, maybe some of britain's yellow tabloid press can start to respect my anti-racism, my hatred of homophobia, my socialism and my commitment to europe.
in writing. i voted for this resolution as in many respects it provides a balanced response to the ill-considered action of the danish newspaper in commissioning cartoons of the prophet muhammed for publication, knowing this would be considered an offensive act. it recognises that the reaction was largely orchestrated by political forces seeking to create hatred of some western governments and also acknowledges that the vast majority of muslims reacted not with violence but with dignity and outrage at the violence, which they feel does not reflect the values of their faith. however, i note that once again parliament has failed to criticise one of our own member states, which has been criticised by the council of europe for raising the temperature on immigration. this has created a climate which raises tensions. parliament must be consistent in its own approach to failures within its borders and not just outside them.
in writing. i am disappointed that this resolution on an important controversy is unclear, ambiguous and does not properly address the context of the 'cartoon' controversy. freedom of expression should be balanced by the responsible use of this power. it is of concern to many, including my london constituents to whom i have been replying individually.
in writing. the eplp has abstained on paragraph 5 and the final vote on this joint motion for a resolution because we believe that this is a confused, repetitious motion which lacks clarity. we believe firmly in the right to freedom of expression balanced by the right of journalists and others to use this power responsibly. the motion fails to balance clearly these competing aims and to convey accurately the context in which the current controversy has emerged. the eplp is in contact with those across the uk who have expressed concerns to us.
in writing. i welcome mr kindermann's report on the implementation of the eu's forestry strategy because, although forestry is not actually dealt with in the treaties, there is a need for an eu action plan for sustainable forest management that provides a coherent framework for the implementation of forest-related actions and serves to coordinate community actions and the forestry policies of the member states, which is drawn up in close coordination with the member states and the various stakeholders concerned. as someone who lives in one of the last important remaining oak forests in england, i am acutely aware of the need for sustainable forest management. forests have a multi-functional role. in the forest of dean, the forest provides a beautiful environment and a natural habitat, opportunities for recreation and tourism, potential for work and industrial realities, as well as a home for people to live in. and yet, in the majority of cases, the multi-functional role, measured against the potential it offers, is not reflected in the economy of the areas concerned or in the income of their inhabitants. rural development policy is the main instrument for implementing the forestry strategy at community level and i support this.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i should like to thank mr letta for his cooperation in preparing our position on this report. my group is committed to two main points. firstly, the collection of these statistics is urgent and needs to be as complete as possible, as soon as possible. it is difficult to see how one can conduct meaningful trade negotiations without them. this means that the mandatory collection of statistics on both inward and outward fats is the best solution. it is amazing to me that apparently some member states are just not willing to consider providing them. the council has introduced a derogation for member states which have not yet tested this process to deal with just those situations in article 6, point d. is this not enough? both inward and outward fats should therefore be collected on a mandatory basis and mandatory pilot studies should be set up for imports and exports. if not, just a few years on member states that have not volunteered to do pilot studies will claim that it is still not necessary and will still refuse to collect the data. my group’s second issue is comitology, which is raising its head yet again. if parliament’s position on this means that we will have to go to a second reading, so be it. my group will stick with its position on comitology until the council shows itself to be serious about giving the european parliament reasonable expectations in this area. even now, a reassuring statement by the council might still be enough for us to reconsider our position. my group will therefore vote in favour of the text that was adopted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would first of all like to thank mr hamon for the enjoyable way in which we have worked together on this report. it has been an interesting and, i hope, ultimately productive example of collaboration between our respective groups. the ppe-de group welcomes the imf’s review of its activities and of its future direction. the fund has played an important role in the global economy for more than 60 years and we want it to carry on doing so, but to do this it needs to refocus on its core mandate of promoting financial stability and supporting countries with balance of payments difficulties. it has a key role in supervising the world’s monetary system and helping to prevent and deal with crises. its surveillance role needs to be stepped up to concentrate on reducing global financial instability and advising individual countries about financial stability, economic growth, exchange rates and reserve accumulation, because these are essential preconditions if countries are to avoid and get out of difficulties and poverty traps. the fund has been criticised for its conditions when lending to financially stretched countries. i share the concerns that these conditions may have been too rigid at times but, as a responsible lender and custodian of funds, the imf must be able to impose conditions when lending money. the requirements it sets out are there to improve a country’s economic situation by opening up markets and promoting sensible economic policies, good governance and sound financial management. often, indeed, the imf is a useful scapegoat for governments having to force through unpopular reforms. turning to europe’s role in the imf: as mr hamon said, the eu is currently spread over nine constituencies – i thought it was ten but perhaps he is right in saying nine – and has lacked any semblance of a cohesive position in setting imf policy. a first priority, therefore, should be better coordination. there are advantages in being in different constituencies, not least that the eu has greater voting power than any other part of the world and can better influence non-eu countries within these constituencies, but this counts for little if our member states are at sixes and sevens. a single eu seat is not a realistic goal just now, even if it is an aspiration for the long term, but much more could be achieved right away by better coordination of member states’ positions. my group will submit some amendments and some split votes in order to help improve mr hamon’s report which, overall, we hope to support.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this debate gets to the very heart of what the european union is all about. in the united kingdom – and i am sure in many other countries – the argument that was used when we first joined and continues to be used is that we are in the eu because we have greater influence in the world if we speak together with one voice. well, i look at the wto; i look at trade talks, where already no individual state may speak on her own behalf. what do i see? i see a hong kong summit that failed in december, despite the generous offer made by the americans, and i see a situation where certainly the globe’s third largest trading nation could have done a rather better job for herself. this proposal for a single european seat is certainly not going to suit britain, denmark, or sweden. we are not even in the euro. as far as the united kingdom is concerned, 1976 – when we went cap in hand to the imf – is a dim and distant memory. a single imf seat is not about economic logic; it is purely about politics. it is purely about turning the european union into an international superstate. as we heard in one or two of the previous speeches, it is about standing up and forming a bloc to oppose america. the same logic is being applied elsewhere when it comes to the united nations security council. i ask myself – whether it is the united kingdom, france, germany or any other country – do we have more influence in the world speaking as 25, speaking with one voice? or do we have more influence if we are able to put our own opinions forward and speak on behalf of our own people? i know the answer, but i suspect that most people in this house do not.
author. – mr president, the alleged demolition in december 2005 of the mediaeval julfa – also known historically as jugha – armenian burial grounds, with the breaking-up of the khachkars, or beautifully engraved headstones, is a serious desecration of european christian heritage. the azerbaijani government claimed the video footage documenting this is fraudulent armenian propaganda. but i have received independent verification that the footage is genuine from a british architect, steven sim, an expert in the region. furthermore, if there has been no destruction, why are on-site visits refused by the azerbaijanis, who also, rather bizarrely, state that this could have been done by looters needing the stone for local building work? once more mr sim has stated that passage into the cemetery requires passing through azerbaijani army-controlled territory, making such a thing almost impossible without official support and in clear breach of their duty of care to protect the site. i have also been informed by the azerbaijani embassy that this destruction is nothing compared to the destruction of azerbaijani mosques. i was indeed sent photos of destroyed mosques. that mosques in the war zone were destroyed in 1991 is undeniable and to be condemned without reservation, but the photos i was sent i believe represent destruction that took place 15 years ago, not 3 months ago. furthermore, the julfa site in nakhichevan was never part of the war zone. also, it is worth pointing out that i have been informed that the nagorno-karabakh authorities have recently agreed to a project for the reconstruction of mosques destroyed on their territory. we are now at a critical juncture in the talks between the two presidents, kocharyan and aliyev, in rambouillet, france, on finding a solution to the nagorno-karabakh dispute. i therefore believe that any further planned destruction of armenian heritage will not be conducive to lasting peace in the region.
author. – mr president, i am sure everyone appreciates that we are at a very crucial time, with the peace talks due to start next week. i may be the only person here who has seen at first hand the damage that has been done by the war in the north and east of sri lanka: the devastation to property and lives; the real suffering – of the tamil people in particular – and the dreadful attacks on colombo, kandi and other places in sri lanka. the deaths of many leading figures and ordinary people have gone without investigation. the tragedy and misery have been compounded by last year’s tsunami. now there is a real chance to restart. i hope that all those involved in the peace talks will appreciate how important these are, recognise their responsibilities and be prepared to compromise and not look for recriminations. nobody in sri lanka would benefit from a return to conflict. personally i regret the absence of representatives of the muslims, buddhists and colonel karuna’s forces there, which i believe will make things more difficult. the ban on the ltte people travelling to the european union makes it rather anomalous that we have to have these talks in either geneva or norway. nevertheless, we in the european parliament should do everything we can, with the commission and the council, to assist, not hinder, the negotiations. i wish them well.
author. – mr president, it probably would have been better if we had been able to postpone this debate, but it was already on the agenda. we all know the reason we wanted to postpone it was because of the scheduled meeting between the sri lankan government and ltte in geneva on 22-23 february. i, along with everybody else, sincerely hope the talks will be successful. it will be a small step in the right direction if they are. that should improve the implementation of the ceasefire, which, as we all know, is not observed fully by either the tamil tigers or the government. we still see a lot of recruitment of child soldiers, which is an absolute scandal. if we want to achieve a permanent political solution, it is important that we do not just look at the security issues. however, any talks that take place on a political solution must involve the muslims and other tamil organisations, as well as the government and the tamil tigers. only by doing that can we have a clear way forward to a permanent solution.
author. – mr president, we very much welcome the negotiations to be held next week in geneva between the government of sri lanka and the ltte. three years have passed since the last talks and, for the sake of all the people of sri lanka, it is vitally important that violence should cease and that there should be real progress in the peace process. we do not believe that it would be helpful for this parliament to express its views formally at this sensitive moment, so we have agreed with other political groups that there should be no resolution. sri lanka has suffered from an upsurge of violence since december 2005, which has claimed over 200 lives. not surprisingly, there has been a breakdown in trust between the government and the ltte, which is impeding political progress and economic recovery. we note with concern that even the unarmed observers comprising the sri lankan monitoring mission have come under attack on many occasions during this period. although the sri lankan government has shown restraint in its response so far, both sides must refrain from acts of violence and dedicate themselves to the impending negotiations. for peace and stability to return to sri lanka, the government and the ltte must be prepared to make compromises. a useful confidence-building measure would be for both sides to cease the use of anti-personnel landmines and to assist in their removal. to this end, the sri lankan government should set an example by signing the ottawa convention, and the ltte should sign the geneva call deed of commitment. such a gesture of good will would verify their commitment to peace and could lay the foundations for further mutually beneficial initiatives. the european union and individual member states can take action to facilitate the peace process. european countries should monitor the financial support provided by their tamil communities to ensure that it is not being used by persons or for activities that undermine the already fragile ceasefire agreement.
author. – mr president, ‘when exactly will this nightmare end?’ those are the words of moazzam begg, a british citizen released without charge from guantánamo in january of last year. but they could equally be the words of all right-thinking citizens. guantánamo bay has become a byword for all that is wrong with the us response to terrorism today. four years after the first prisoners arrived, not one has received a proper trial and 500 remain in confinement, the vast majority without charge or due legal process. just today, the united nations has published a report which suggests that the treatment of detainees meets the definition of torture under the un convention against torture. the authors conclude that the us government should either expeditiously bring the detainees to trial, or release them without delay. we would go further. we agree with the amnesty international director in the uk that there is no middle ground regarding guantánamo: it must be closed. that is why my group will support this resolution to call on the us authorities to close guantánamo bay and to release the prisoners or try them in accordance with international law.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, what more evidence do the americans need to close down this hellhole? the latest un report, which was released yesterday, provides yet more proof that what the us is doing in guantánamo bay is illegal and a direct violation of human rights. four years on from the inception of this prison, we are still hearing of torture techniques that are banned under the un convention against torture. my constituent, moazzam begg, who was released last year after three years’ illegal detention, said he witnessed other inmates being beaten so badly it may have caused their deaths. now we hear in the report about people being violently force-fed to end their hunger strikes, not out of a desire to keep them alive, but in order to stop embarrassing the american government. in the name of humanity, this prison must be closed and the detainees either given a fair trial or, if there is no evidence against them, released forthwith.
mr president, i would like to inform mr posselt that it was his group that asked to have the vote withdrawn, so to say that they are not going to accept it is a bit peculiar.
mr president, i rise on a point of political importance under rule 144. i read with interest your comments on possible internal reforms of parliament and you are greatly to be commended for your view that better attendance at debates and better participation of members is a desirable objective. however, i am somewhat dismayed that, in your hurry to ensure the inclusion of all members in the work of parliament, you chose to bypass them entirely and instead provide your draft proposal first to the press, without prior consultation with the members you are so keen to assist. why is this item not on the agenda? i am further dismayed that your solution to the vexed question of mep participation is to recommend the complete centralisation of decision-making to the conference of presidents, which you chair. mr president, perhaps you could explain to me and the rest of the house how your great vision of democratic inclusion and participation can be achieved by centralisation and exclusion? in the words of mr poettering, the chairman of our group, this amounts to unfocused administrative micro-management within parliament. (applause from the ppe-de group)
mr president, this afternoon you mentioned international women’s day. last week was also endometriosis awareness week. figures for this female disease are much the same as when i raised this matter in the house last year: up to 14 million women in europe affected, up to eur 30 billion in costs to the eu economy for lost days at work. endometriosis is a condition that is stagnating in misdiagnosis, ignorance and misunderstanding; it takes up to 11 years from onset to diagnosis. i can promise you, and it gives me no pleasure, that i will speak in this house on every appropriate occasion until every woman and every health professional in europe is aware of this disease, its symptoms, its effects and the treatment options.
mr president, so far president mahmoud abbas, who is due to address us this wednesday, has been a big disappointment as president of the palestinian authority. he has been unable or unwilling to reign in terrorist suicide bombers, including his own fatah al-aqsa martyrs brigade. he has failed to disarm militants from hamas and islamic jihad and seems incapable of stopping the rampant corruption that, in part, led to a hamas victory. although the eu must be an impartial and strong supporter of the roadmap for peace under the quartet, we must not fund a palestinian authority led by an unreformed hamas, an eu-banned terrorist organisation committed to jihad and a caliphate under sharia law. first, hamas must renounce violence and recognise israel’s right to exist. if that means that the palestinian authority gets its money from iran and saudi arabia, so be it. that will mean less money for iran to build its nuclear weapons.
mr president, on 28 february in brussels four commissioners – those responsible for enterprise, the environment, competition and energy – presided over the first meeting of a high-level group to look at issues concerning energy, the environment and competitiveness. around the table there were also four cabinet ministers, twelve chief executives of energy producers and energy users, three ngos, the chairman of the european trade union congress and three regulators. however, there were four empty chairs at that crucial advisory meeting, the first meeting that will set a two-year agenda. colleagues may be surprised to know that those four chairs were allocated to members of this parliament. i regard that not just as a discourtesy to the commission, but these are crucial issues, and if we want to be engaged with those issues, perhaps you would explain to me and to parliament why those chairs were empty. will you please put in place the procedure to nominate people to fill those chairs, and if you cannot do it yourself, why do we not have nominations and an election to fill those four empty chairs?
mr president, i am happy to take your assurance. however, i served for a year as a member of a previous high-level working group on the automotive industry. the terms of reference were clearly defined and i believe that it was crucial for a member of this parliament to be there from the very beginning. if you had asked for my advice, i would have explained how that system worked. in addition, we had a hearing in this parliament about the high-level working group. it is absolutely vital that we are involved. my dismay is that this was not resolved before the first meeting, because this group only meets every three months and the crucial agenda-setting and design of two years’ work will now have taken place without members of this house sitting round the table.
mr president, you asked that this parliament should enjoy a greater commitment from its membership. this is not really a parliament in any sense that the british would understand or recognise. this chamber looks like the supreme soviet, apart from the flags. it conducts business like the supreme soviet and the debates here are not debates in any real sense of the word at all. as a mere backbencher, if i get one minute – determined by officials and not by knowledge or need – i am lucky. there are no interventions, there is no giving way, nor any chance to challenge and test ideas that have been put forward. this essentially is an elaborate democratic fig-leaf and we are all part of a charade.
author. – mr president, the evil of human trafficking is a clear example of an area where the eu can and must act. that is why karin riis-jørgensen and i tabled our oral question. we want answers today if at all possible. not enough publicity is being given to this foul trade. in many cases the victims are seen as the offenders: we must turn that around. i am pleased with the recent attention the subject has been receiving at eu level. parliament’s own-initiative report is due; the council adopted an action plan in december; there is the council of europe convention; yet there is still little progress. there is no point in member states talking unless urgent and concrete action is taken. at the moment these women – and we are mainly talking of women and girls – have no guaranteed protection. they are treated as illegal immigrants and deported, and, in many cases, are retrafficked. there are actions that can be taken: they are laid down in the european convention against trafficking, amongst other documents. we need safe havens so that young women and girls can be protected. we need at least the 30-day breathing period that the european convention calls for, so that these women can decide whether they will take part in the prosecution of the traffickers. in the united kingdom, there is only one safe haven with 25 places. it is estimated that over 1000 people per year are trafficked into the united kingdom for sexual exploitation. the failure to tackle this problem really is not good enough. the united kingdom and other countries must sign up to the council of europe convention. finally, with the run-up to the world cup in germany, we need to do much more to make people aware. it is estimated that thousands of women and children will be trafficked during that time and used for forced prostitution. in this oral question and in this debate we are not talking about prostitution where the prostitutes know what they are doing. we are talking about a modern-day slave trade, where the women and children have no choice about whether or not they work as prostitutes. this is what today’s debate is about and we must not confuse the issues. that is why i am working in the campaign to give the red card to forced prostitution and i hope all the fans, footballers and sports associations, together with all other organisations, will get behind the campaign to stamp out this evil trade.
people trafficking, or slavery as we used to call it, stamped out by the british empire with the force of the royal navy behind it, is now a sad fact of life under the new brussels empire. this despicable trade is being unwittingly fostered by a policy agenda governed by man-hating lesbians with no knowledge or understanding of the real world. if you doubt this click on to their website and make your own judgement.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i wish to focus on the concept of direct state aid as a tool of regional development, to which mr hutchinson alludes in his report. it is a concept very closely allied to the idea of structural funds and regional cohesion and my country, the united kingdom, is paying a heavy price within the eu as a result. the rapporteur called for companies that have received public aid and have then relocated within the eu to be blocked from receiving state aid or structural funding for seven years. but what of respected companies that have applied quite properly for state aid, received no answer from the british government due to delays from the commission in giving the green light, and have then relocated to another part of the eu, which fits in better with brussels’ idea of cohesion and is, therefore, completely free of the same obstructions? in 2002 peugeot asked the european commission to approve a state aid package to build the new 207 model at ryton in the english west midlands. more than two years later, with still no answer forthcoming from the commission, peugeot gave up and announced that the 207 would be built in france and slovakia. no doubt brussels saw that as an economic mission accomplished. meanwhile, ryton faces an uncertain future. once production ceases on the 206 model – built there so well and so competitively up until now – if this factory then closes after many years of production under various owners, i suppose one could describe that as a kind of relocation; but it is hardly peugeot’s fault. perhaps instead the commission should be banned for seven years from pronouncing on state aid and from over-regulating the business sector. that would certainly be cheered in the english west midlands, where skilled workers are suffering at the hands of eu economic policy. rubbing salt into its workforce’s wounds, we now have the news that peugeot has reached an agreement with kia motors to build the 206 in indonesia, along with unconfirmed reports that the 207 will be built there too. nothing could better illustrate the illiteracy of eu economics. if we want an increase in employment we should strike the right balance between regulation and flexibility for business. over-regulation creates artificial jobs, which are not economically justified.
mr president, relocation of industry to cheaper wage economies leaves in its wake economic and social hardship which divides rather than unites the regions of europe. within the eu, of course, it is in part a product of the free movements guaranteed under the treaty and it has come into focus as a real issue because of the precipitous speed and scale of enlargement. with cohesion funding targeted on the new member states, the situation is set to worsen. this will lead to a development deficit in other european regions. policy which facilitates relocation thus damages social cohesion. what is urgently required is a stronger policy of denial of eu funds and a facility to recoup them in respect of any company which relocates production to another member state. five years is far too short a period. there is no future in robbing the old member states of jobs in order to develop the new member states. eu funds should play no part in that, nor should we facilitate opportunities for companies to soak up grants and then move on.
the next item is the debate on an oral question to the commission on the fourth world water forum in mexico city (16 to 22 march 2006) by roberto musacchio, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, caroline lucas and alain lipietz, on behalf of the verts/ale group, glyn ford, giovanni berlinguer and béatrice patrie, on behalf of the pse group (o-0001/2006 – b6-0003/2006).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to say a few words about the role of the acp-eu water facility to which the commissioner has referred. it has also been discussed recently in the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly social and environmental affairs committee. i welcome the decision by the acp-eu council to launch the eur 500 million water facility in 2004, but there has been a lot of disappointment because of the slowness with which the initiative was implemented. indeed, the claim has been made that not one person has yet received clean drinking water under the acp-eu initiative. it is important that due regard be given to process and that high standards of administrative probity are adhered to, especially with so much money involved, but the final evaluation of proposals took place in january this year and 97 proposals were at last selected. so i would like to know whether we are now on course to provide 10 million more people with access to drinking water by 2010 as planned and, when it comes to the second call for proposals, whether the process will take less time to complete.
i have received six motions for resolution see minutes. tabled under rule 108(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday.
the next item is the report by dimitrios papadimoulis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a rapid response and preparedness instrument for major emergencies (com(2005)0113 – c6- 0181/2005 – 2005/0052(cns)) (a6-0027/2006).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the tragic south asian tsunami heightened public awareness, for the first time, of the possibility of similar extreme events threatening our homes and livelihoods. although on a lesser scale, just weeks later, a major storm in carlisle – a town in my constituency – coupled with hurricane winds and high tides produced exceptional rainfall, leading to the overtoppling of defences and flooding of 3 000 homes and hundreds of businesses, drowning two elderly ladies in their beds and forcing thousands of people from their homes, some for many months. i felt the devastation in carlisle as deeply as i felt the aftermath of the tsunami and the earthquake in south asia some months later. the eu suffered personal tragedies in all cases, as our holiday-makers in sri lanka and thailand were washed away and our friends and families in pakistan and kashmir were lost in the rubble. the positive side of all this was the strengthening of our collective belief in the force of community across the globe, with the outpouring of aid and goodwill from governments and individuals alike. in that adversity we saw the best of human nature. yet even the best suffer fatigue and it became clear in november, as the kashmiris faced a second wave of deaths from disease and exposure, that the donor community cannot be relied upon to respond decisively where political will is lacking. the eu's rapid response and preparedness instrument must fill this void and work closely with the un system to take advantage of our pooled resources and see to it that when our friends need us we come to their aid. given the impact of climate change, we must accept that extreme events will continue, and with increasing frequency. in carlisle we have a new strategy for flood management – making space for water, undertaking integrated urban drainage pilot schemes to investigate how the threat of floods can be better managed. prevention is crucial and environmental concerns such as the sound management of natural resources like forests and wetlands are key tools in the evasion of disasters, lessening their impact on people, homes and livelihoods. whatever prevention strategies are put in place and however much is invested, it is unrealistic to think that these disasters can be eliminated. we must learn from them. large sums need to be invested in warning mechanisms, risk maps and public awareness campaigns to ensure our citizens are aware of the risks. we must ensure that prevention, detention and warning mechanisms for natural hazards in europe and across the globe are robust and put our citizens – from carlisle to kashmir – in the best position to prevent, prepare for and respond to disasters. in this report parliament has significantly improved the commission's proposal and it is one that i can fully recommend to this house.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statement (rule 142)
the next item is the report by marios matsakis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the community strategy concerning mercury (2005/2050(ini)) (a6-0044/2006).
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i should like to thank mr matsakis for all the work he has done on this report. the outcome of the votes in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is a report that is the first step towards a coherent approach being taken towards mercury and the ultimate reduction of mercury levels in the environment. that is a tribute to the work that mr matsakis has done. the ppe-de group has tabled two amendments to the report that was adopted in committee. one of those amendments – that concerning traditional measuring instrumentation, such as barometers – would allow the extremely small number of people in the eu who repair, maintain and recycle barometers to continue to operate under very strictly controlled conditions. a ban would see the end of the tradition of barometer-making and craftsmanship, which began over 400 years ago when mercury barometers were first introduced. if those businesses are forced to close, people will be unable to have their instruments properly repaired and they will potentially dispose of them straight into household waste, which would be in nobody's interests. i am, however, completely in favour of legislation to protect the public from the highly toxic substance that mercury is, but the approach that we should take on environmental issues must be proportionate and it must be balanced. a complete ban, in my view, would be a disproportionate response. barometers are made by only a small group of people in europe and those operators, who have an extremely good and safe working understanding of mercury and all the hazards it represents, are best placed to help reduce that pollution. appropriate product safety warnings and the licensing of suitable establishments would enable the usage of mercury to be controlled and monitored and people could continue to use their barometers, as they have for centuries, without a threat to the environment or to health. the second amendment concerns mercury-cell chlor-alkali plants. i believe my colleagues will speak about those later on.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the basic weakness of the european construction is that when national interests are perceived to be at stake member states will look after themselves. that is how politics works, never mind promises of solidarity and treaty obligations. this particular complaint is that we do not have equal treatment of workers from third countries across the union, but nor do we have a free market in services, nor do we have anything approaching a uniform application of european union law. perhaps the most glaring example of broken rules is the stability pact, and without budgetary discipline the euro currency will not last for very long. whenever some states misbehave we ask the commission to do something, but the commission cannot do very much and i am not convinced that mr frattini’s information drive will help. if the commission demands equal treatment of workers, some nations will still just say ‘no’, or if they are persuaded to say ‘yes’ they will easily find ways of reneging.
mr president, i welcome this report. this was of course is one of the top 10 priorities of the uk presidency, essential for achieving the lisbon goals. now ict accounts for 40% of europe’s productivity growth and for 25% of the eu’s gdp growth. one of the key issues for me – as it is for the commissioner and the rapporteur – is not just the economic goals of lisbon but that the goals of lisbon should embrace all. social inclusion is of course a key factor. i know of poor single parents in ely in cardiff, where i was brought up, who do not have a car. when they want to do their weekly shopping it is impossible for them to take a bus; they have countless bags to carry and young children to take with them, and so they book a taxi at the cost of about gbp 10. now if they were to shop online they would not have to pay that gbp 10, and this would make a huge difference to many poor families. the demonstration of the practical advantages of ict is important to ensure that poorer members of our society embrace new technologies. finally, we have to be realistic in relation to ict. the prime investment for the sector has to come from the private sector. the state sector cannot respond quickly enough to changes in technology. our responsibility is to provide a stable legislative framework for this kind of investment.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i see that this afternoon we are to debate the european footwear sector. i use that as a restructuring example, since i live in northampton, at one time the capital of british shoe-making. during the last 40 years the seven or eight big household names, the labour-intensive shoemakers in northampton, have declined to barely one, while all the town’s engineering firms have gone. at the same time, the town has doubled in size and there are twice as many jobseekers, but there has been no unemployment problem. the rate in northampton is currently a little less than the uk average of 5.5%, which is the lowest in the eu – sweden and denmark apart. so, how did we do it? how did we restructure? it was not done with eu schemes: this all began before the uk joined the then ec. nor were eu funds involved. we did it by ourselves, by making our town attractive to the service sector. barclaycard, for example, which is one of the biggest credit card companies, has had its headquarters in the town for a very long time. i know you do not like this self-help approach: it does not lend itself to eu interference, rules and regulations and the grand handing back of a country’s own money via unelected regional assemblies and development agencies. only yesterday mr schulz complained that the elected meps in this house did not have as much say as the council and the unelected commission. so let us cancel lisbon mark 2 and let national governments and local councils of member states do the job they were democratically elected to do.
mr president, i agree with the commissioner when he said on opening this debate that restructuring is necessary so that activity which is no longer sufficiently productive can be cut back. the issue is how restructuring should be managed and who should do the managing. again i agree with the commissioner that this should be for the companies themselves, for the employers, and the workers directly involved. this report was originally due to be voted on in the february part-session, but the major political groups quite reasonably agreed to delay this for a month, to give time to try to improve it. this extra time has certainly been necessary. progress has been made in terms of some of the amendments now tabled. indeed, my colleague mrs bachelot-narquin has been very active in this regard and i thank her for that. but we should not only be adopting the positive amendments, we really should be deleting some of the original paragraphs entirely. until we do, this report will primarily be about resisting change and promoting the power of the trade unions to deal with it. it should be about enabling change and promoting the power of the workers to cope with it. it will be clear to the rapporteur that i still do not like his report. it needs not just improvement, it needs – may i say – restructuring. as he knows, i was one of those who voted against his report in committee, in part to help us table further amendments for this part-session, but i should say now that my fellow uk conservatives, as well as certain other national delegations that i know of, reserve the right to vote against it in the plenary sitting tomorrow. although it is a non-legislative report, it would be a pity to vote down a report on such an important subject. but it would still be better to vote it down than to give the wrong message that this parliament is more concerned with trying to preserve the past than with helping employers and employees come to terms with the future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the strength of one’s commitment to gender equality should not be measured by support for the establishment of a gender institute. the rapporteurs explain that they support that body: ‘since it ensures that the overarching objective of gender equality ... will not be second to any other anti-discrimination policy at eu level’. this misconceived objective explains why a separate institute is in fact a bad idea. there is no hierarchy of oppression. the promoters see it as more important to have the kudos of an exclusive body than the reality of an across-the-board transformation of society. the gender institute should in fact be part of the new eu agency on fundamental rights, just as the anti-racism monitoring centre will be. if gender is the only equality objective that stays outside the fundamental rights agency, that will create an unbalanced model as well as weakening the latter agency. it may also ensure that gender equality becomes an isolated backwater rather than the highly visible flag-carrier that its supporters want. it seems to me quite defensive to say that you need a separate institute to ensure that gender equality remains high on the eu political agenda. on the contrary, women can spearhead the campaign for equality in human rights for all through the fundamental rights agency. that is the opinion of the uk’s equal opportunities commission and i endorse that.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues are strong supporters of equality of opportunity in society. we believe in both men and women playing their full role in the life of our own nation and elsewhere and oppose any discrimination on the ground of gender. however, we have voted against this report today as we do not support the proliferation of new eu agencies and institutes that will add to the burden of the taxpayer and increase bureaucracy without any proven benefit to the people they are supposed to serve. the creation of a separate institute in regard to this issue risks ghettoisation by leaving it open to single-issue pressure groups and thus easier to disregard and marginalise. the issue of gender equality should be dealt with in the framework of the global approach to fundamental rights.
in writing. i welcome the report, in particular the effort to create an independent body focusing specifically on gender issues. i agree with the idea of a body dealing exclusively with gender equality matters, since it ensures that the objective of gender equality, as set out in the treaty, will not be second to any other anti-discrimination policy at eu level.
in writing. the british conservatives support the concept that there may be emergencies of a major nature where the member states will wish to express european solidarity by means of a collective contribution through the eu budget to supplement the efforts of an individual member state or states. we are therefore voting in support of the report as a whole. but we do not support the proposed changes in the legal base, nor the idea of extending the response to emergencies outside the eu, nor the increase in budget. if the response were to apply worldwide, no conceivable eu budget would be enough to support it. parliament should not raise hopes that the eu will not want to fulfil.
in writing. i welcome this report which encourages the close coordination of member states in negotiation inside the imf. it is essential that, given the absence of full recognition of any eu representative bloc, with delegatory powers agreed by member states, individual eu member states continue to represent themselves inside the imf. there are many key issues, such as development, which rely upon many voices to get a point of view across.
in writing. i welcome close coordination of member states in negotiation inside the imf. i believe that, in the absence of full recognition of any eu representative bloc, with delegatory powers agreed by member states, individual eu members should continue to represent themselves inside the imf. this is in line with many other international bodies such as the un. there are key issues including development issues which rely upon many voices at the table to get a point of view across.
in writing. the eplp welcomes close coordination of member states in negotiations inside the imf. it believes that, in the absence of full recognition of any eu representative bloc, with delegatory powers agreed by member states, individual eu member states should continue to represent themselves inside the imf. this is in line with many other international bodies such as the un. there are many key issues, such as development issues, which rely upon many voices at the table to get a point of view across. reducing the eu's voice to one may, in certain circumstances, have an explicit effect on the weight of international opinion.
in writing. i welcome this report on relocation in the context of regional development. through the principle of partnership, it is the member states’ and the commission’s responsibility to deny any involvement in the structural funds to companies which, having received european union aid, relocate their activity to another member state or third country within seven years after the granting of the aid. in this regard, it is essential that the eu establish a european strategy to combat relocation in coordination with all the member states as well as a european relocation observatory to study, evaluate, follow up and make concrete proposals on the subject of long-term agreements in the field of employment and local development. given the rise in statistically affected regions in scotland, it is now more important than ever that positive measures are taken to ensure that allocated funds are spent effectively and respect the length of the entire programming period.
in writing. i welcome this report on the community strategy for dealing with the impact of mercury on the environment and on humans. mercury is a highly toxic substance and it is vital that scientific evidence is used to establish where it can be used safely and where it should be banned. i urge the commission to bring forward the results of its investigation as a matter of urgency.
in writing. labour meps support the strategy to control mercury proposed by the commission. mercury is a highly toxic substance which must be subject to strict controls. however, we believe that bans/restrictions must only be introduced after dialogue with interested parties and after a thorough impact assessment of the consequences, with industry being given sufficient lead time to adapt to change.
in writing. my grounds for voting the way i did on the matsakis report on a commission strategy for dealing with mercury in the environment are that the commission has identified the areas it wishes to investigate further before recommending further eu legislation/action. my approach is to recognise that mercury is a highly toxic substance and to support the commission strategy and impact assessment.
in writing. i welcome this report, which was launched in june 2005 to foster growth and jobs in the information society and media industries. the report has three main priority objectives. firstly, to promote an information space without borders, secondly to stimulate innovation through investment and research, and thirdly to make icts accessible everywhere and to everyone in the eu. despite concerns over further regulation, i am encouraged by the fact that i2010 should benefit all citizens in helping to bridge the digital divide and narrow social and regional imbalances.
member of the commission. mr president, in response to the very welcome questions, let me stress that i am strongly committed to developing the two-way trade and investment relationship between europe and china and with other asian markets, including vietnam. there is no greater prize, in my view, for european trade policy in the coming years than the prize of getting those relationships right. i believe that europe must respect and adjust to the natural advantages those economies have, shifting our own focus to sectors and to products where our own skills and technologies give us the edge. that is how trade grows and that is how europe’s economies have grown over centuries. the european footwear industry is in the front line of global competition. for all their ingenuity, creativity and excellence, europe’s leather-shoe makers are faced with an extraordinary challenge from asia’s producers. however, the case of dumping requires me to distinguish between this tough new competition, on the one hand, and genuinely unfair trade on the other. europe’s trade defence measures target unfair trade. they cannot protect us from tough competition. they cannot shield us from asia’s natural and legitimate low-cost advantages. however, when those comparative advantages are topped up by unfair and uncompetitive practice, we have a right and an obligation to act. that is why, having been presented with a preliminary analysis and assessment by my services, i have recommended to the commission and to member states provisional duties in this case. there is clear evidence of serious state intervention in the leather footwear sector in china and vietnam: cheap finance, tax breaks, non-market land rents and improper asset valuation leading to dumping. that dumping is causing serious injury to eu producers. the dumping duties that i am recommending will ensure that retailers with goods in transit are not suddenly faced with unexpected costs at the border. i am suggesting that they be phased in over a period of five months, beginning at about 4% in april. it means that importers can plan ahead over the next six months with a maximum of transparency and predictability. it nevertheless means that after six months the full duty will be in place and the damaging effects of dumping will be counteracted. as i am required by law to do, i have pondered the question of consumer and retailer interest in this case very seriously. i have proposed to exclude high-tech sports shoes which are no longer produced in significant numbers in europe. i also propose to exclude children’s shoes so as to be sure that even small price rises are not passed on to poorer families. i know that some are worried about the possible impact on consumer prices. i believe, on the basis of the facts, that there is a margin within the supply chain to absorb a small duty on import costs by spreading it across product ranges and the distribution chain. as i have said, these are proposals for provisional measures. they will be discussed with member states and must be confirmed by the college of commissioners. i believe that i am proposing a balanced solution that deserves the backing of member states and this house. it corrects the injury but allows maximum predictability for importers and passes on minimal additional costs to consumers. there will be no quotas, no limit at all on imports of leather shoes from china and vietnam. i have told the chinese and vietnamese governments that i want to work with them to see how they can address the concerns raised by the eu investigation. imposing a duty on dumped goods is not protectionism. it is not a question of asking consumers to subsidise uncompetitive european producers, because the easy comparison is too often made. it is also worth being clear that shoes are not the next textiles. the textile issue concerned fairly-traded textile imports. our proposed anti-dumping measures on leather shoes tackle, in contrast, unfair competition. the commission has a legal obligation to investigate such a claim and a legal right to protect european producers against such practice. some of your questions address the overall situation in the european footwear sector. let me address this briefly. the contraction of the footwear sector is a long-term process that began long before trade in footwear with china was liberalised in 2005. nonetheless, it is clear that there have been winners and losers from this change. some producers have increased their exports and others, including turkey and some of the acp countries, have seen their exports to the eu and elsewhere hold steady or fall. clearly, it is china, equipped with a staggering production and export capacity, that has benefited most. here in europe, more than 40 000 footwear jobs have been lost and more than 1 000 footwear companies have closed down since 2001. european production of leather shoes has fallen by 30% and profit margins have been heavily squeezed to just over 1%. however, we should not pretend that this intense competitive pressure on european footwear producers is related solely to dumped goods. in large part, these are the consequences of changing production and consumption patterns in the global economy. i believe we should accept this, while helping those affected to adjust to these changes. we should also acknowledge that european producers have significantly contributed to the change by relocating their production to asia in quite a number of cases. as a result, we need to take into account a range of european producer interests in assessing our interests in this matter. rising to the asian challenge places great demands on our businesses and workers. the commission’s growth and job strategy is built on the idea that europe must commit itself to equipping today’s europeans to respond to this challenge and to create tomorrow’s jobs. we cannot block globalisation and economic change. i do not believe it is in europe’s interests to try. those who think that the trade commissioner can reverse global economic change are asking king canute to hold back the tide. however, we can shape globalisation, even harness its dynamic potential for renewal and, indeed, for innovation in europe. i believe that the broader footwear issue confronts us with that imperative. we must invest in change, invest in those affected by change, but face up to the changing world in doing so. we must also be robust in our defence of the rules and of fair competition. we need to recognise that if we want to win the wider political argument for free trade, we must be ready to defend and stand up for fair trade. however, we cannot deny asia its comparative advantages or the competitive industry that is lifting hundreds of millions in the developing world out of poverty. the only sustainable balance to that competition is the creativity, innovation and commitment of european companies themselves, reinforced with the appropriate help from political authorities. i am happy to return to any of these points in detail and to answer points that any member may subsequently raise.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i am a little bit worried that we, and the commission in particular, have not learned anything from the problem of the ‘bra wars’, as they became known, when we had to readjust our position. i fully understand the situation on anti-dumping measures and agree entirely with the commission’s outlook on it. however, commissioner, you said one or two things in your speech which concern me. you said that, when you looked at vietnam and china, there were circumstances where they had financing, special financial agreements and tax breaks etc. does that never apply in some cases in the european union? are there not cases where this quite often happens in the european union? in particular, have european funding, structural funds, etc. never been used? would there be a risk of us perhaps being taken to the wto on the extent of anti-dumping measures or support? could you also answer one or two other questions? i understand the situation with china very clearly and i would accept your position, but one of the things that we are trying to do in the western world at the moment is make poverty history. this is something that we have been talking about quite a lot. however, vietnam, 30 years ago and even 10 years ago, was a very poor country, probably poorer than many sub-saharan african countries. why have they had the need? surely they have been able to compete without actually putting in a support mechanism? could you answer that? this is a country which has dragged itself from being one of the poorest and now at least has some sort of infrastructure. i am concerned that we are going to be protective of the european shoe industry. you say not. however, i still feel concerned. i should like you to answer one final question. i think we as meps and you as the commission have missed an opportunity to get the message across about dumping. people see us as being protectionist. your staff told me that a pair of designer boots from china cost about eur 180 in europe and yet only eur 10 coming from china. if the effect of the 19% is passed directly on to the consumer, will the 19% be calculated on the eur 180 or on the eur 10 that it costs to bring them in?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, there is a certain sense of déjà vu in this debate. although anti-dumping is indeed different from the example of the multi-fibre arrangement, i believe it is no coincidence that this crisis follows the end of quotas. it is clear that in a world of completely deregulated and unfettered free trade the so-called ‘china price’ will drag costs and standards down right across the globe, with the harshest impact on the poorest. i believe we will see more cases of this kind until we recognise that the way forward is through a system of quotas that enables everyone to benefit from trade, rather than just a few. mr mandelson talks about europe being able to adapt by moving up the value-added chain, but we have had this discussion many times. he knows my view that essentially china is going to do exactly the same, and why wouldn’t it? that is not going to provide a solution for europe and it is not going to provide a solution for the rest of the world either. what is interesting about this case is the extraordinary lengths that the commission appears to have gone to in order to give the impression that this is a much less serious case than it is. it almost feels as if the neo-liberal dogma and ideology are getting the better of the facts on the ground. there are, therefore, some key questions to be answered, including the level of duties, based on injury, that the commissioner has found: 19.4% for china and 16.8% for vietnam. those are apparently based on adjustments never used in the european community before. there is real concern in the industry that they will not be enough. the exemption of children’s and sports shoes has the effect of excluding around 42% of footwear imported at dumping prices, yet for which dumping duties will not be paid. i do not believe that is fair to european producers; but it is not fair to chinese workers either, who are working for pitiful wages – around usd 12 per week, as mentioned in reports of china labor watch – while at the same time social rights are reduced to an absolute minimum. unless we suppose that the consumer is benefiting, i believe it is worth noting that the anti-dumping duties are not likely to lead to increased consumer prices, but to decrease the profit margins of the importers. i believe that we need to be genuinely concerned about the impact of competition from companies based in china – not just on europe, but on poorer countries such as the euromed countries – and recognise that until we have a system of managed trade, the winners will always be concentrated in a handful of ever fewer countries and the losers will prove to be the majority.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i should like to express my sympathy to commissioner mandelson. commissioner, you have got an impossible job. how can 25 countries have one single trade policy? one size does not fit all, whether it is trade policy or shoe sizes. you have also got the problem that you yourself are a free trader, a globalist, a moderniser. you recognise what is going on in the world, but you are battling against the revived economic nationalism that exists within this european union. you simply cannot do your job and you are overseeing a regime that is laced with protectionism and sheer hypocrisy as we, of course, subsidise our own agriculture and will keep export subsidies in place until 2013. but, in line with what john blundell, the director-general of the iea, said just the other day: do you recognise that the overwhelming majority of british businesses now want british withdrawal from the common commercial policy and for us to get back to running our own trade policy? do you recognise that?
mr president, in september i stood here and called on the commissioner to demonstrate greater foresight in the first post-quota era. little did i know then that since june, the commission had statistics showing almost a 700% increase in imports of footwear from china, which indicated the serious state intervention in the sector that the commission revealed five months later. the cynic in me suggests that these statistics were swept under the carpet in order to end the ‘bra wars’, another sticking plaster when the eu needs long-term solutions. to add insult to injury, the commission then went to the press with its plans for anti-dumping duties on leather shoes before even the member states received the proposals, let alone this parliament. commissioner, eu manufacturers and retailers who fear the future in a market swamped with cheap asian exports need answers, which you hide from them. they need confidence and hope, which you take away from them; and above all they require innovation, ideas and management from you, which you seem unable to provide. commissioner, first it was textiles, now it is shoes, next it will be furniture. unless you demonstrate greater foresight and communicate fully with your eu partners we will not be able to work together and help european industry to face the challenge of these emerging markets.
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the commission for learning from its past experience. i am glad the decision has been taken not to impose quotas on import issues since this would have been disastrous for the whole supply chain and for consumers, and i think we all agree on that. however, we need to ask in whose interests these anti-dumping duties are being imposed. i cannot see how consumers will benefit. whether we like it or not, european citizens are voting with their wallets and buying imported footwear. imposing duties could punish consumers by increasing the price they pay for their footwear. i agree that some of the predicted price rises may be alarmist, but there will be price rises. we are told that a 20% duty on the import price of shoes should not lead to a large increase in the retail price. retailers and others in the supply chain are expected to absorb the duties. however, in this day and age i am astounded that the commission believes that it knows best how retailers and shoe companies should run their businesses and how much they should be charging their customers. what has happened to the laws of supply and demand between sellers and european citizens and consumers? if the commission truly feels that retailers are making too high a margin on shoes, then it should launch an investigation into the competitiveness of the shoe industry, not punish retailers and the supply chain by using the blunt instrument of anti-dumping duties. is pushing up the prices of shoes from china and vietnam really going to help european producers, or will it simply force retailers to source their shoes from other non-eu markets, such as india? finally, can we really take the high ground and complain about the chinese government subsidising the footwear industry when we spend so much of our eu budget on subsidising inefficient farmers? let us in the eu throw away the post-war protectionist model and take a lead in embracing globalisation.
i want to raise with the commissioner the plight of a factory in my constituency – 'dickies' in midsomer norton, near radstock in somerset – whose future and workforce are threatened by any adverse outcome from your services' current investigation of an anti-dumping complaint regarding protective footwear imported from china. i have met with representatives of both management and the workforce, including trade union representatives from gmb, and they are united in stating that jobs and livelihoods are at stake should the commission impose anti-dumping duties on this particular sector. the imported footwear from china underpins the distribution and manufacturing sections in the midsomer norton plant. those who introduced the complaint do not manufacture generally in europe, but source form other third countries rather than china. i believe the investigation will find that no damage has been done to european industry by these imports from china and in fact the plants concerned, most of which have applied for market economy status, have not engaged in dumping. stop this threatened tax on protection, relieve people's understandable concerns and close the file as soon as possible.
it is clear that the eu is facing new competitive challenges on the world market, challenges which cause anxiety and uncertainty for our industry, our workers and our consumers. yet as we adjust to the new global environment we must avoid the populist appeal of protectionist measures which are at best a short-term panacea for long-term ills. in this instance, however, it appears that there has been a well-documented case of dumping and injury to the european industry. whilst i fear that some eu companies with good employment standards and interests in the far east (for example clarks shoes) will be hit by these measures, i am pleased to see certain exemptions to the punitive tariff proposed by the commission have been obtained, namely in the sensitive children’s footwear sector. on balance i think that the commission has hit the right note here. i am inclined to agree with the commissioner when he states that consumers should be more concerned about the mark-up enjoyed until now by retailers on goods produced cheaply in poor employment and environmental conditions and then sold below the cost of production. our partners must now address these social and employment issues, issues which we ourselves have faced and dedicated much time and effort to overcoming jointly through the european project.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to congratulate mrs hazan, parliament’s rapporteur. my group broadly shares her assessment and her concerns. i was the rapporteur who took this issue through the house. i had the honour to do so in 2001. however, i would not be speaking here for my group today were it not for the fact that our colleague, mr duquesne, who was interior minister in belgium at the time and very supportive of this measure, is sadly seriously ill in hospital. at the time we took the measure through we believed that the european arrest warrant offered practical solutions to the issues of greatest concern to europe’s citizens: their safety and security. experience has shown that the warrant is europe’s chief asset in the fight against cross-border crime, allowing our judicial authorities to reduce the extradition process to an average of 13 days in over half of all cases. that is 13 days compared to the months of waiting that went before. it has been well used by member states and has generally worked well. nobody would deny that there have been some teething problems. in addition to delays in implementation, controversial court decisions in poland and germany have raised eyebrows – and accusations that this measure violates fundamental rights. nonetheless, all member states are bound by the european convention on human rights and by european court of human rights case-law, as stated specifically in this measure. i have two questions today. the first is to the council. will the council name and shame the member states that are blocking the framework decision on procedural rights, which would set to rest any concerns about violations of fundamental rights in this measure? what does the council believe is the likely timetable for agreement of the framework decision? the second question is to the commission. could the commissioner tell us if the warrant has now been correctly implemented in the country he knows best and whether any other member states are dragging their heels, and will he start proceedings against any member state that has misapplied the law or limited its effects?
mr president, the utility of the european arrest warrant was illustrated, especially for my constituents in london, when hussein osman, a suspect in the 21 july attempted bombings, was returned to britain to face justice in weeks rather than years. however, two thirds of member states have introduced explicit grounds for refusal: violation of fundamental rights. to the extent that this is valid, it justifies the welcome change of heart by the austrian presidency towards a conviction that there must be agreement on minimum standards for fair legal proceedings. however, we need to do more to invest in the criminal justice system, as the european parliament called for a year ago. sadly, many leading politicians give in to the temptation to criticise judges for judgments they do not like. last year the british prime minister, tony blair, boasted of how he had battered the criminal justice system. instead of questioning basic rights, such as the presumption of innocence and habeas corpus, and possibly colluding in torture flights and extraordinary rendition, we need to raise standards, not lower them.
mr president, those countries used to roman and napoleonic law have to accept that the state governs their lives, but in britain any such idea is an abomination. where i come from, the state does not exist in its own right and the government of the day answers to us: those who elected it. our safeguards against any attempt by the state to interfere in freedoms and rights go back hundreds of years and are protected by common and statute law. no european has the right to detain and remove a british subject from the uk without due process, and that means protection from imprisonment after three days unless a court hears the evidence and decides otherwise. it also means no offence can exist that is not an offence in the uk: xenophobia, for example, can stand as a charge in the uk. we still enjoy the presumption of innocence, protection of trial by jury and freedom from double jeopardy, despite the disgraceful efforts of the blair government to fall into line with what the eu chooses to call law. the people of your countries would be far better off enjoying the rights and freedoms of the british. learn that lesson and you might start winning hearts and minds. someone should tell mrs wallström ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i agree with the council that you cannot allow the poor people of ethiopia to suffer for the inadequacies of their government. how will the council support civil society in delivering aid within ethiopia? it is clear we should not be channelling any funds through the ethiopian government but we should continue to encourage ngos to be involved in ethiopia. however, they need logistical support to be successful there. how will the council assist ngos in ethiopia?
the question is specifically about strengthening democratic forces in iran. one of the larger democratic forces in iran is called in english the people’s mujahedin. it is currently on the eu terrorist list, presumably because the government of iran put it there. i should like to ask the president-in-office to consider raising in the council the issue of whether this anomaly can be removed at an early stage.
i was pleased to hear the council’s response, because megaphone diplomacy is not going to work in the case of iran. when george bush made his famous speech, naming iran as part of the ‘axis of evil’, iran was part of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. it is now no longer part of that treaty, partly because it feels exiled from the rest of the world. if you treat people as evil, they will act as if they are evil. will the council assure us that it will continue dialogue with iran but not get involved in the internal politics, not – as some of my colleagues have suggested – backing individual political parties, but opening up iran to wider discussion? eu backing for a single political party would be death to that party inside iran.
the president of the council. i am sorry if the honourable member has found my reply to be bureaucratic. that was not my intention. i think i made myself very clear. i have said that the council, at all levels and on all occasions, will say so in cases where we consider that there is conduct contrary to international law, and will not hide it. we have made it very clear - to give just a few examples - that we believe that the wall, the separation barrier, where it is being built on palestinian territory, is not in accordance with international law. we have been very clear in our criticism of the settlement policy and we have been doing so again and again. we will continue to do so. i hope you don't find this too bureaucratic. we are not doing it in a bureaucratic way either, we are doing it in a very political way.
since the eu relishes and promotes cross-border infrastructural projects within its own territory, would it not be incongruous and wrong for it to object to such a project in israel, since improved communication links can only bring cohesion and social and economic betterment to those disparate territories?
there are some difficult issues – such as holocaust denial and protecting freedom of speech – but it is scandalous that in 2006 there is still no eu-wide response to the alarming and increasing problem of racist violence. it must be possible to get eu-wide agreement on the core issue of preventing the day-to-day racial harassment and hatred suffered by many of our citizens and residents. some countries, such as greece, italy and portugal, currently fail even to record racial attacks. please name the obstructive member states that are holding up this framework decision agreement and make a big push during your presidency to outlaw race hate crimes. all power to your elbow!
mr president, on a point of order, the minister of justice of austria has come all this way. we were told to table questions to her. we had to wait until march. some of these questions were tabled in december, but we waited patiently for three months to put the questions to her. now she has been allowed to answer precisely two questions in three months! it is not her fault, we are delighted she came – thank you for coming, minister – but would you please convey to president borrell that this is a failure. it does not work. it is not a good system for the minister to come and answer two questions after three months.
on a point of order, i am not sure that the point has been understood. the austrian presidency chose to change the system for answering council questions, which meant a three-month wait for many people who are listed here, including myself. mr newton dunn made that point. we have waited for three months. the minister has been very gracious. it is not her fault that the presidency decided to change the system. the minister has been incredibly gracious in answering an extra question. i have never seen that happen before. however, can you please now review that decision and go back to the old system? this one simply does not work. we have put down serious questions on radicalisation and other issues, which have now not been answered after three months. please consider going back to the old system.
i would like to thank the commissioner for that. i think we are on the same wavelength here, and he knows that. we actually had the same objective. so thank you for that information, commissioner. i would just like to ask when you expect the results to be available. when will the programme be ready so that we will actually have some harmonised statistical collecting across the eu?
commissioner, if you really have not seen the evidence of the caged beds in romania, i refer you to the front page story of a recent edition of the london sunday times and to the well-documented cases published by the mental disability advocacy centre. i hope that you will say to romania, as indeed to the other countries that have engaged in this barbaric practice, that caged beds are inappropriate for children, the confused elderly or for people with mental health problems in any civilised country, and certainly in a member state of this european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i should like to thank mrs bauer for the work she has done on this excellent report, and the commission for its initial document. one of the points that comes through from the report is that there is multiple deprivation often linked to discrimination; that if you look at some of the groups that are particularly affected – women, as we have just heard, people with disabilities, those from black and minority ethnic groups and those both older and younger – you can see why the article 13 directives on anti-discrimination are so important and why they need to be implemented as fully as possible. the concentration on child poverty is welcome. we know that there are links between poor nutrition, poor housing, a poor environment – the poor often live in the worst environments – and poor educational prospects, which then follow through people’s lives and indeed those of their children. i welcome the call for a green paper on child poverty. we need to look at that in the context of social cohesion overall, because it has implications for the gap between rich and poor. mr de rossa mentioned the difficulties about education and employment. the real cause of poverty is not having enough cash. you cannot simply rely on a trickle down from growth in the economy. you have to take specific action to address those at the bottom. take the example of the uk, which comes out quite high in terms of risk of poverty. despite the number of efforts made by our government at the moment, you see that the share of the poorest 10% in the population’s net income is 2.8%, while that of the richest 10% is 28%: ten times as much. you can see it in my own region, inner london, the richest area in the european union, which also has tremendous levels of poverty. we need to change those percentages and increase that of those at the bottom. i agree about the importance of public services and the role that social security has to play within this. member states should be looking at whether their social security systems operate to allow people to go through training and to take up educational possibilities, or whether they in fact constrict them because these people have to be ready for work at any moment. i would also echo the comments made about the open method of coordination and the role that the european parliament should be playing in this, not least in reviewing the national action plans and their outcomes.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i too want to thank mr grech for his hard work and the excellent report he has produced on the guidelines for the 2007 budget procedure. i really hope, as the report suggests, that the institutions can submit realistic requests based on budgetary rigour in the light of the current tight financial situation. like the rapporteur, i am convinced that in all the institutions we can work more cost-effectively, without compromising standards. i would urge all those responsible – which means each of us and all members of all the institutions – to keep this in mind and change our working habits accordingly. i should like to highlight some other aspects of the report that i believe are particularly important. we have had a reference to the area of information and communication. i applaud the emphasis on results as opposed simply to spending. expensive solutions are not always the most effective. as the rapporteur suggests, we should not be afraid to discontinue tools or strategies that are not delivering the desired results. that means regular monitoring and clear and appropriate distribution of responsibilities. we have had a reference to information tools. one idea that has been explored is web-tv. i am firmly in support of that idea. very many young people actually get most of their information from the internet. if it is properly managed and properly handled, it could be a new way of connecting with citizens and pushing forward our objectives. we need to find better ways, but this needs to be properly handled. i am very much in favour of the idea of having web-tv and seeing how all the institutions can work together to get our information across to different members of society.
mr president, as a british citizen i strongly oppose the budget settlement that mr tony blair purports to suggest that he negotiated in december. i prefer to call it ‘the great giveaway’. opening your cheque book and asking how much is not my idea of negotiation. allowing britain’s contribution to rise from an average of gbp 3 billion net to more than gbp 6 billion per annum from 2007 is totally unacceptable and squanders mrs thatcher’s hard-earned rebate. i therefore voted against acceptance of the budget when it came before this parliament, but i suspect that my reasons were somewhat different to those of most of the other members of the institution who also voted against it. no major political party in my country, except my own, is prepared to campaign honestly and openly on european issues at election time. it is the famous elephant in the room that everybody avoids talking about. they are helped by a supine media that is only too willing to participate in what is effectively a cover-up. mr blair and his government may think themselves very clever in avoiding a proper debate on the eu at the last general election. however, there is a downside. how can they legitimately claim to have a mandate for giving away all this extra taxpayers’ money, most of which will be used to subsidise projects in eastern european countries, at the expense of under-funding our own domestic infrastructure? i have looked at the guidelines in this report and most of it is just a glorified wish list full of buzzwords like ‘european heart’ and ‘raising the game’. in my view, if the eu really is interested in raising the game, it could start by asking for less money, not more, and it should initiate a major study on the means necessary to return the powers it has taken from democratically elected governments. well, that is my wish list.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr ó neachtain, and the committee on fisheries for the constructive report on more environmentally friendly fishing methods and for the interest they have shown in the communication from the commission. i cannot agree more with what the rapporteur has just said regarding the honesty and integrity of fishermen; the abuses of the few should not be blamed on everyone at large and we need to clamp down strongly on the real culprits. the commission attaches great importance to the development of more environmentally friendly fishing methods. improving selectivity is one of the objectives of the technical measures that we propose in that context. in that regard, i am pleased to note that some progress has been achieved on the technical measures in the baltic that were adopted by the council in december, and the commission intends to increase selectivity and the new technical measures to be proposed for the mediterranean sea, the atlantic and north sea. i have noted your interest in combating ghost fishing. the commission is prepared to be at the forefront of this battle. following the deepnet report, measures were decided, in the last tac and in the quota regulation for 2006, to ban temporarily deepwater gillnet fishery in the areas covered by the report and concerned by this activity until such time as permanent measures – also applicable to other areas, in lieu of a complete ban – are adopted, hopefully, during this year. i have also reserved funds to support retrieval surveys of ghost nets. the commission will continue to follow these issues with particular attention. the reduction of discards will be a major objective of the new technical measures for the atlantic and the north sea. it needs to be underscored that, due to the variety of the catch composition and the level of discards in european union waters, the regional aspects of the different fisheries will be taken into account. the various areas to be considered will correspond to the spheres of influence of the different racs, thereby incorporating more easily the proposals made by those councils, a positive evaluation being made by the relevant rac. the commission is encouraging the industry to engage in pilot programmes by making use of the racs for this purpose. two such pilot projects have already been carried out in france and sweden. further pilot projects, in full cooperation with the industry, will allow us to test on a case-by-case basis possible measures to reduce discards effectively. the commission is also encouraging the development of efforts in fisheries management in the kattegat in cooperation with denmark, sweden and germany. this will hopefully lead to positive results later this year. this kind of management, among other objectives, is aimed at reducing or eliminating discards. bycatch reduction is linked to selectivity and discard issues and, at international level, the commission has promoted a global approach for bycatch issues within the fao. this could result in an international plan of action on bycatch reduction and/or technical guidelines elaborated by the fao. most of the measures to promote environmentally friendly fishing methods will be included in the new technical measures for the atlantic and the north sea. as you know, technical measures are considered as a complement to effort limitations, tacs and quotas, long-term management and recovery plans, and as part of the overall package of management measures. i have noted your request to simplify the regulatory system and can inform you that these new technical measures will be a fundamental test case in the simplification programme led by the commission. they are one of the principal points of the action plan on simplification. turning to the amendments: with regard to amendment 1 on centralisation and co-management, the commission would like to see substantial rac involvement in the elaboration of technical measures without, however, any change to the decision-making process. the commission agrees with taking into account initiatives of racs so as to improve fisheries management and can accept that point on condition that the positive effects of such measures are confirmed by scientific assessment. i would like to emphasise that we already have examples to illustrate that the commission takes into account proposals from the racs, such as the case of the french square-meshed panel, the swedish grid and the proposed new rule under which – for safety reasons – the cod line is to be placed as far as ten metres, instead of one metre, away from the meshes of the cod end when using an onboard pump system in pelagic fisheries. it is premature to give a definitive reaction to amendment 2, since discussions on depleted fish stocks are still under way. they will hopefully be concluded by april. however, the draft proposal from the commission already provides for socio-economic compensation linked to recovery plans, and i can assure you that this topic will be given the necessary attention.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, let me first of all warmly congratulate the rapporteur, mr ó neachtain, for a brilliant own-initiative report on introducing environmentally friendly fishing methods to the eu fisheries sector. he has produced a very fitting conclusion to an initiative that, as he reminded us, was first started by the irish presidency. i agree with him and i agree with the commissioner on the need to decriminalise honest fishermen. that is a crucial point that he brought out in his presentation. however, his report stresses two other points that i want to expand upon. first of all, there is the need for the commission to take a more wide-ranging view of measures to protect the marine environment and rebuild depleted fish stocks, in particular by studying factors other than over-fishing that may cause fish stocks to be depleted, such as pollution and global warming. as you know, commissioner, there is mounting evidence that over-fishing has not been the only cause of the collapse of cod stocks in the north sea. if that was so, the dramatic reduction in the number of fishing vessels that are now fishing for cod in the north sea – numbers have collapsed by 60% through decommissioning in the last five years – would have led to a remarkable recovery in cod stocks, but that has not been the case. it seems to me that the other factors – such as global warming or pollution or whatever other factors may be evident – should now be the basis of your review of the cod recovery programme, which i am delighted that you have agreed to carry out. indeed, the other point from mr ó neachtain’s report that i want to emphasise is the point he strongly made on discards, when he emphasised that over 20 million tons of fish are discarded worldwide every year. one million tons are discarded in europe every year. commissioner, you said that two pilot projects were already under way. i thought you were also carrying out pilot projects in the north sea. if you have any further information on the pilot projects and evidence concerning discards and how this may be tackled in the future i would very much like to hear it in your winding-up speech.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the alde group congratulates mr ó neachtain on his report. it is clear and succinct and yet comprehensive in its coverage of the issues. we particularly endorse the references to biodiversity and to the need for action in relation both to ghost fishing and discards, as well as the call for the commission to continue to promote the adoption of an fao international plan of action on bycatch reduction. on ghost fishing, we stressed the importance of monitoring the existing transitional measure, to ensure that it is not simply leading to displacement of effort, and the importance of the full involvement of the european parliament in discussions relating to long-term controls. we entirely agree with the report’s emphasis on the role that regional advisory councils can play in the promotion of environmentally friendly fishing methods and with the necessity of affording them increased technical and financial support. we regret that we cannot vote for either of the amendments. whilst we sympathise with the approach expressed in amendment 1, particularly on decentralisation and co-management, we have difficulties with some of the wording and feel that the points are effectively addressed in paragraph 19. in the same way we believe that the issue of compensation, as raised in amendment 2, is already adequately covered by the existing paragraph 6. in conclusion, we commend the report to the commission, the council and parliament as a whole.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i wish to thank our rapporteur, mr ó neachtain, and assure him of my full support for his report, which i hope will be adopted unamended. i know of no one with any interest whatsoever in fisheries who would not support the principle of environmentally friendly fishing methods: the people with most to gain, after all, from protecting the marine environment and ensuring a balance between conservation and harvesting of fish stocks are the fishermen themselves. most of the fishermen i know are not just fishing for today but are hoping that, one day, their families will be able to follow them into the business. however, there is much more to environmental protection than just technical measures, important as they will always be. the cfp itself, i would contend, is not environmentally friendly: tacs and quotas measure not the amount of fish caught but only the fish landed. discards are caused by the cfp, rather than prevented by it. many people in scotland’s fisheries-dependent communities are totally disillusioned with the european union’s management of fisheries; so much so that, today, the scottish parliament’s european committee considered a petition based on 250 000 signatures calling for withdrawal from the cfp. the scottish parliament agreed to ask for legal advice on this. that was not done lightly, but because there is a real and serious need for more radical reform than we have had thus far.
mr president, i shall be the last tonight to add my congratulations to the rapporteur on his very good report. however, one line jumped out at me, and that is that tacs cannot control fishing mortality because they control landings but not catches and discards. this has been central to the problem of the common fisheries policy for decades and nothing that has been put in place by way of improvement has worked to date. the cod recovery plan has not achieved the objective. fishermen in my region of northern ireland have faced closure in the irish sea for a long number of years and we have not seen any concrete evidence that this has been a success. we need to look at where we are going. let us put the past behind us and start with a clean sheet of paper. it is in every fisherman’s interest that future stocks are protected and, if we must have controls, then let the industry be part of the decision-making process. you cannot continue to shut them out and blame them for non-cooperation. we have that opportunity through the regional consultation process. let us bring everyone on board and let the industry be listened to and, above all, take on board some of its very good ideas. it is a nonsense that if a fisherman says something, it must be wrong. this cannot be the bottom line for us in the future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on behalf of the liberal and democratic group, i too regret the fact that mr abbas has had to return home in such circumstances and i express my group’s thanks to you for the statement that you made last night on this matter. it certainly seems to us that where the tectonic plates of the world’s three great monotheistic religions – christianity, judaism and islam – are rubbing up against each other and causing sparks to fly, we need to proceed with extreme caution. this house should not underestimate the risk of a wider conflagration in the middle east. the tragic events of 9/11 and the equally tragic response have seriously threatened the chances for continued peace in our world. just as european union diplomacy with iran is being undermined by george bush riding roughshod over the non-proliferation treaty in his dealings with india, so our diplomacy on the middle east is being jeopardised by the actions of israel yesterday. i hope that the european union, through the council and commission, will protest in the strongest terms to the israeli government about these actions. there are questions to be asked about whether there was a conspiracy between the british and american monitors guarding the prison who left shortly before the israelis moved in, and i hope the council will come back to this house with a report once we know the full facts of the situation. nothing can justify the attack on the prison. nor can anything justify the hostage-taking that followed. i hope we will be able to move quickly to restore calm and confidence and i hope that we will be able to see mr abbas back in this chamber in a much more serene set of circumstances, so that we can discuss seriously with all sides how we can create a secure and lasting peace in that troubled region. (applause)
chairman of the european parliament’s delegation for observation of the elections in palestine. – mr president, as you say, i chaired the delegation from this parliament to the presidential elections in january 2005, when president mahmoud abbas was elected freely and fairly by the people of palestine, and again in january 2006 when the parliamentary elections took place in such controversial circumstances. nevertheless, they were free and fair. we find ourselves with a man – mahmoud abbas – whose history you have described back to the 1970s, his commitment to peace, and his presence here today in an assembly of 25 nations, directly elected, representing the very values that we are seeking to encourage in other parts of the world and especially in the middle east: human rights, democracy, the rule of law, the free media, and so on. these are the values which i believe president mahmoud abbas was prepared to accept and of which he spoke in his inauguration speech in january 2005. speaking as a briton, and with a deep commitment to the process of peace and democracy in the arab world, i find it paradoxical, ironic and tragic that the two countries which speak so much about democracy in the arab world are the very countries – the united states and the united kingdom – which walked away from that prison, which abandoned their international responsibilities instead of reinforcing the prison’s security. we knew there was a problem; they knew there was a problem. it was their duty to deal with it. they did not: they walked away. i hope, mr president, that, when the euromed parliamentary assembly, over which you preside, meets in brussels in a few days time, we will hear a statement from the commission and the council on precisely what happened, why it happened, when it happened and who took the orders. there is a case to answer here and a case that may need to be answered to the international community, but starting in this parliament. (applause)
mr president, i rise on a point of order. i do not wish to delay the house long, but i have to raise this point because it is a serious matter. under rule 191(8), relating to the committee on petitions, of which i am a member, a petitioner to the parliament can insist on anonymity. however, in a recent case being considered by the committee on petitions, the anonymity of mrs x, a former member of lloyd’s, was breached, and as a direct result of that, mrs x is being pursued by the british government to the full extent of the law. this could not have happened if her anonymity had been preserved. it is essential, therefore, that this parliament protect her position, maintain the rights of petitioners and stand up to the british government. the chairman of the committee has written to you as a matter of urgency, but has not yet even had the courtesy of a reply. when will you respond, mr president, and will you protect the rights and privileges of this parliament and its petitioners?
mr president, i rise on a point of order under rules 166(1) and 121(2). i apologise for interrupting the debate, but before it began sir robert atkins rose on a point of order which you ruled to be out of order because it did not concern the business of the day. he was actually referring to an extremely important issue which is covered by rule 166. when the parliament’s rules are being disregarded, it is quite in order for a member to draw that to your attention. sir robert was stating that the british government may well be acting ultra vires and in breach of community law as regards a breach of confidence. the committee concerned has written to you. i ask you whether it is possible for you to give your reply to sir robert atkins before the vote. i should like to remind you once again that i am referring to rule 166(1) and rule 121(2). i apologise for this interruption.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, more than at any time in the union’s history there is a disjunction between those who seek to move forward and those who wish to turn back; between those who defend the single market and the lisbon agenda as the best means to guarantee long-term efficiency, competitiveness and growth, and those who reject free trade in favour of economic patriotism akin – as giulio tremonti said – to that immediately before the 1914-18 war. the irony is that this so-called patriotism – thinly disguised economic nationalism – will bring as few benefits to the citizens of france, spain or poland as it does to the rest of europe, for it is fair competition that drives the global market, raises quality and lowers prices, and it is fair competition that protectionism undermines. if any company can see commercial logic in merging with another, what business is it of ours to put roadblocks in its path? the great success of the euro, as the president of the commission has pointed out, is that mergers and takeovers are proceeding apace. european industry is gearing up for the challenges of competing in a global economy. these are issues for the spring council. they are issues for the commission because the commission is going to be tested in this climate as a defender and guarantor of the treaties. faced with an unprecedented assault on the internal market, the commission must hold firm to the treaties, hold firm to the basic freedoms and speak out when necessary – as you have, president barroso, and as commissioners mccreevy and kroes have too – and act to defend the union. but defence of the single market falls not only to the commission; the council has a role, as we stress in the motion we debate today. that means the spring council expediting transposition and implementation of the union’s directives to deliver a single market with free movement of goods, services and capital. we want to see the european council deal seriously with free movement of services, free movement of workers and free movement of capital. as they discuss the future financing of our union, let the heads of state and government find the funds necessary for the training of our workforce, for the trans-european networks and for research and development through the european institute for technology, which will secure future economic dynamism. it is time for our heads of state and government to formalise the council meetings that take place in march and october. these need not be billed purely as economic policy summits; the demands of energy security, of peace in the middle-east and of fighting internationally organised crime are equally urgent and should be on next week’s agenda. there should be public discussion too of the union’s burgeoning defence policy, currently being planned behind closed doors. the austrian presidency opened to public scrutiny a recent environment council meeting; why not make this openness universal practice in the council? my group welcomes the commission’s proposal to bring forward a concept paper so that we can discuss defence policy here in parliament and involve our citizens in the discussion of what our continent can become. president-in-office, a century ago your country had a foreign minister who studied in strasbourg, restored the old regime and dominated continental politics for 30 years. if mrs plassnik can emulate metternich’s achievements, europe will prosper. if she fails, she can always follow his example and flee to britain.
mr president, mr barroso wants the european union to engage with civil society; mr winkler wants to motivate eu citizens. but there is nothing more likely to cause observers of the european union to yawn or sigh or say, ‘oh, no, not again!’, than talk of the lisbon agenda. can we not accept that the lisbon strategy has sunk, just like the stability pact has sunk, which is most unfortunate because that is what underpins the euro currency? if the lisbon strategy has not sunk, why do we keep needing to relaunch it? we all want economic growth and jobs; we all want the economies of europe to thrive. however, it must be time to recognise that we do not have the right formula. rather than being the force that drives the necessary reforms, it is the eu with its endless regulations and interference that is holding back the economies of europe. recent modest improvements in some european union economies have been achieved despite the european union. they are more a result of global development. the economies of the eu do not need a lisbon strategy: they need to be left alone to let markets work and to let entrepreneurs create jobs. can we not see that by continuing to talk about the lisbon strategy, the european union is emphasising its own impotence? therefore i recommend a period of silence: stop talking about an agenda that, year after year, has been universally acknowledged as a failure.
mr president, the meeting of the council later this month will provide an opportunity for member state governments to affirm the vital need for reform to proceed more rapidly than it has before. on two issues i believe that the council should speak clearly and forcefully in its conclusions. in the light of the commission document ‘time to move up a gear’, launched in january, this is certainly not a time for drivers to now run out of fuel. i am delighted that mr barroso seems to be running on high-octane fuel and long may that continue, but the rising tide of protectionist rhetoric and protectionist actions by member state governments is unacceptable. it is extraordinary that the european union should still have governments wedded to an outdated protectionist mentality and the promotion of economic and industrial patriotism. i welcome the commission’s statements condemning that drift. i welcome the recent comments of the german economics minister, who said that we do not need industrial patriotism and said that foreign investors should be welcomed with open arms, not just tolerated. if the national reform plans submitted by governments are anything like those provided by the united kingdom government, then heaven help us. the debate on protectionism goes to the heart of the debate on future economic development. there is no room for the policies we have seen of late. the time for diplomatic niceties has passed. we must allow the voice of small and medium-sized businesses to be heard. on the services directive, the compromise package agreed by parliament must be improved upon by governments. we have made progress, but not enough. the council should get its act together on the doha round and work harder towards world trade agreements. i am afraid that at the moment the jury is out. i urge the european council to show the same vigour and determination as mr barroso. i urge it to avoid the usual fudge at the meeting later this month and give some real leadership. then we can judge it on its resolve and we can then give our verdict.
mr president, there are three priorities for the spring summit – action, action, action: action on the fact that over a third of our working-age population is economically inactive, which is a disgrace. you cannot embrace globalisation while abandoning large numbers of our citizens. we need proactive labour markets. we need to take action on the implementation of legislation: too many member states are not implementing legislation they have agreed to and, frankly, that is a situation which is unacceptable. finally, 13 years after creating the single market, it is time we accepted that there is a european single market which demands european champions, not national champions. so, let us see less of the talk of this summit and instead see many more plans for concrete action from member states. deliver, do not talk!
mr president, firstly i would like to thank president abbas for giving me this unexpected opportunity to contribute to this debate. i thank lisbon for giving us the agenda, and the son of lisbon on the commission front bench for his leadership of that agenda. there is nothing more important to europe than to ensure that the lisbon agenda succeeds. that is the way to give our people new hope that europe will contribute to their futures and that we can cooperate together to give new hope to other parts of the world as well. i want to highlight two aspects of the agenda highlighted in this resolution. the first is the health of the people of europe, because i believe that is a prerequisite of lisbon. without healthy people you do not have a healthy economy. it is important that we look first at some of the health threats that we are facing, including the possibility of a flu pandemic, and at health opportunities such as those now arising from patient mobility, and see these as part of the agenda. as my colleagues have said, we need to look at the ageing population to ensure that ageing is an opportunity, and not just a burden. we need to see a healthy environment too as a prerequisite for our economy. that too is not a threat. the opportunities for business to innovate and meet the demands of the higher standards that we expect in our environment will stand them in good stead vis-à-vis the rest of the world. we have the opportunity to lead the world on sustainability, on innovation, on eco-labelling and so forth, and i believe that is a challenge that the commission must take up with parliament. lastly, let me give credit and pay tribute to the austrian presidency for the work it has been doing in both these areas, in relation both to a healthy people and a healthy environment, because that will lead to the healthy economy that lisbon can bring us all in the very near future.
mr president, i just want to raise a small housekeeping point. some of us have received no e-mails since 11 o’clock this morning, except through webmail. i do not know how many this concerns, because there is more than one server. however, one server is down and it was down for a while yesterday morning as well. i believe this is a problem particularly related to strasbourg, which, of course, is another joy of coming here. (applause)could you please ensure that the administration gives priority to solving this problem, which is deeply inconvenient? (applause)
the spring meeting of the european council looking at europe’s economy takes place just at the moment of an outbreak of protectionism in a number of european countries, especially france. president chirac often tries to portray france as a champion of european integration and blames other countries for any perceived lack of enthusiasm. yet france’s record of applying eu law is one of the worst, its attitude to trans-frontier mergers is obstructionist, it has deliberately failed to meet its obligations under the stability and growth pact and it has consistently slowed down the pace of cap reform. the european council should be an opportunity for other member states to press france to put its house in order.
in writing. i welcome this report which attempts to evaluate the european arrest warrant (eaw), its effectiveness and the problems it has encountered since its adoption. the eaw's role in strengthening judicial cooperation and mutual trust is extremely innovative and improves the member states' ability to fight against organised crime and terrorism. i agree with the recommendation that the parliament should be more involved in the evaluation of the eaw and that fundamental rights in the context of the eaw need to be ensured in order to make sure eu citizens from different member states do not experience any discrimination.
in writing. i welcome this resolution, which, in preparation for the world cup, attempts to put a stop to the dramatic increase in the demand for sexual services by protecting trafficked women who are the victims of organised crime. the resolution stresses the need for an integrated europe-wide campaign and therefore calls on member states to launch and promote the ‘red card’ campaign in close cooperation with ngos, the police, law enforcement agencies, churches and medical services. as well as seeking to inform the general public, the resolution calls on the international olympic committee and sports associations, including fifa, uefa, the german football association and others, as well as sportsmen and sportswomen, to support the ‘red card’ campaign and roundly condemn trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution.
in writing. in voting for this resolution i am concerned that, in particular, the fifa world cup is producing a major and unacceptable increase in the trafficking of women. in tackling those incidents, and in general, the commission and others should ensure that the priority must be to tackle the gangs which force women into these situations, rather than 'softer options' of targeting often vulnerable women forced into sexual slavery.
in writing. i welcome the report written in response to the commission’s communication on restructuring and employment. the report agrees that restructuring is not necessarily synonymous with social decline provided that such measures are correctly anticipated and managed through good collaboration between the affected firms and trade unions, plus a suitable training policy for workers. it calls for support to be given to smes and proposes that the financial programmes under discussion for 2007-2013 should be geared more closely to anticipating and managing restructuring. to prevent ‘subsidy tourism’, the report argues that firms subsidised from eu funds should not receive any further community aid for a given period of time if they relocate part or all of their activities within the eu.
in writing. i voted for the cottigny report on restructuring and employment. i voted for paragraph 9, part 2, on the endowment of the globalisation and adjustment fund by businesses as this is a voluntary donation.
in writing. i welcome this report which focuses on a number of key policy priorities including: increasing labour market participation; modernising social protection systems; tackling disadvantages in education and training; eliminating child poverty; ensuring decent accommodation; improving housing standards and addressing the lack of social housing for vulnerable groups; improving access to quality services such as health and long-term care services, social services and transport; and overcoming discrimination and increasing the integration of ethnic minorities and immigrants.
in writing. i am voting for the grech report. i voted for both parts of article 47, because i believe there should be a statute for members’ assistants by 2009.
in writing. i will be supporting this resolution, along with my colleagues in the socialist group and the labour delegation, but nevertheless i must point out a key omission in the section on energy policy, namely tidal power. global warming pushes us away from conventional power, while safety and security concerns threaten nuclear power. the gap can be filled with renewables only with great difficulty, whether solar, wind or biofuels. the one opportunity that is being neglected is tidal power. the french built the power station across la ranche estuary demonstrating the technology; in the uk both the mersey, on a small scale, and the severn, on a massive scale, are suitable sites. the severn scheme alone could supply nearly 10% of britain's energy needs. why are we neglecting 'big' renewables in favour of covering our hillsides with windmills and our roofs with solar panels?
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues fully support all measures within the lisbon strategy which genuinely enhance the competitiveness of european economies. this requires real economic reform that delivers more growth, flexible labour markets and higher employment throughout the eu. while we are fully supportive of the efforts of the president of the commission and some member states to reduce burdens on business and impediments to job creation, we are concerned that some of the measures outlined in the resolution could lead to higher costs on business and detract from the over-riding priority of making europe more competitive in the global market place and thus significantly reducing unemployment levels. we cannot support those suggestions in the resolution that would lead to a financial perspective higher than agreed at the european council in december 2005. on these and other grounds, we have decided to abstain on the resolution.
mr president, first our misguided rapporteur welcomes the fact that the commission strategy paper ‘advocates an outward-looking union’. he does not really mean an outward-looking union; what he means is an expansive union and not, apparently, a period of reflection following the dutch and the french referendums – not at all! they were saying ‘no’, particularly to turkey. all we are getting here is more centralisation at the same time as more expansion to make an unworkable whole, and this in the very week that germany has been told to get its economic house in order! far from sending shiploads of money to eastern europe, they would do better to make sure that the prosperity of europe as a whole is not compromised. it is fashionable at this time to pretend there is a long queue of countries wanting to join this place. the fact is that the balkan countries have just left one bossy, bureaucratic, corrupt organisation called yugoslavia, and do not wish to join an organisation with similar characteristics merely for the benefit of their health. the truth is that they want money. they want yet more money. what they should not be doing in the balkan countries is trading their sovereignty as though it was a commodity, for that way lies great disappointment. i fear a great deal of disappointment lies ahead for them.
mr president, enlargement is europe’s greatest success story which has and will spread stability, security, prosperity and democracy across our continent. however, when majority opinion in seven member states, including my own, opposes future enlargement, it is time to make the case to the public and confront those who seek to block progress; to reject those who even in this resolution seek to use language like ‘operational possibilities’ or ‘redrawing borders’ to undermine europe’s existing commitments; to confront those like the british conservatives who say that europe has to choose between widening and deepening – we do not; to confront the far right who deliberately stoke fears that new migration threatens people’s jobs and livelihoods, when the evidence is just the opposite; to expose those who, even in this resolution again, welcome progress in croatia, but not the very same progress in turkey; to recognise that majority muslim populations in macedonia, bosnia and albania share a european destiny too; and to underline that a pause for reflection on the constitutional treaty cannot be an excuse to put a full stop on new enlargement.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, it is a great pleasure to see you in the chair at the beginning of this debate on the euromed parliamentary assembly, which you do so much to elevate and enhance. of colleagues here in the chamber, the pioneers of the euro-mediterranean policy are very numerous on the left, but not so numerous on the centre-right, with the distinguished exceptions of mr busuttil, mr kasoulides and mrs saïfi, but more may come. as was mentioned earlier today, veronique de keyser and i had the honour to meet the president of palestine last night. we profoundly regret the circumstances in which he had to return home. i believe it is ironic and tragic that the two countries who talk most about encouraging democracy in the middle east – the united kingdom and the united states – should be the very countries who left their posts in jericho yesterday. the governments of both those countries should have reinforced and not withdrawn their garrisons. it would be appropriate at the euromed parliamentary assembly that we should hear, particularly from the council, where the responsibility lay for the decisions, who took them, when and why they were taken. i hope that, if possible, we will get a statement from the council at that meeting, with the assistance of the commission. the work of the euromed is based largely on its committees. we are deeply grateful for the work that takes place there and for the opportunity that the assembly provides, uniquely in the world, for palestine and israel to work together. it is an unusual meeting, taking place on the eve of an israeli election, and following the election in palestine on 25 january. it may be that representatives from those two countries are not present, but that does not mean they have gone out of our minds. they are very much at the forefront of our concerns. i believe that this meeting – the last under your chairmanship under the presidency of the european parliament – will be a great opportunity for the commission, the council and parliament to underline our commitment to giving the parliamentary dimension of the mediterranean real substance. i hope that the work i am doing on my subcommittee may give the european parliament the opportunity to become the operational and organisational heart of the euromed assembly in the future. that is my intention. (applause)
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 19.50 and resumed at 21.00) written statement (rule 142)
mr president, i was present with parliament’s delegation in geneva at the human rights commission last year and saw with my own eyes how discredited that commission had become and how it was being held hostage in its proceedings by countries which were themselves the worst perpetrators of human rights abuse. so, like members across this house tonight, i welcome the creation of the new human rights council. i believe it will be a step forward by meeting all year round, by being elected by a majority from the un general assembly, by having a system of suspension for those countries which are members and then violate human rights and by maintaining the tradition of access for non-governmental organisations. i am very proud of the role that we as meps have played in the margins of the process. when we met louise arbour, the commissioner for human rights, in geneva, and when she made her return visit to us in brussels, we explored in detail her proposals for the universal review procedure now agreed, which will enable, it is argued, a much stronger, more objective examination of the record of all countries. we insisted in our resolutions that membership of the human rights council should be open only to countries which issue standing invitations unimpeded to special rapporteurs. that is part of today’s agreement. sudan, saudi arabia, nepal and zimbabwe will not and should not be members of this new council. finally, this un reform results from the millennium review summit and comes at a historic point in the defence of the principle of multilateralism in our world. we in the european parliament should send a message to the us – not simply to the government but to its people – that whether it is the human rights council, whether it is kyoto, whether it is the international criminal court, or whether it is the principle of multilateralism itself, the united states is deeply and dangerously isolated in this world and it is no role for the world’s last remaining superpower to play. if the united states wants to be nominated to this new council, it will have to allow unimpeded access to guantánamo bay. i wonder whether the us will stand.
mr president, i welcome these reports because protecting regional specialities is right and necessary. regions have a right to exploit and protect such specialities for their own economic benefit. i note that it is estimated that, in those member states where this is done, around eur 5 billion a year is raised, in terms of added value, by promoting such geographical indications. of course, there is also a knock-on effect in terms of impact and job creation and in population retention in rural areas. my sole regret is that, to date, my region – northern ireland – has not yet availed itself of this facility, though i would have to say, biased as i am, that we are rich in such commodities. ulster beef, which all europeans will soon be able to savour again when the beef ban is lifted, has a taste and quality which makes it renowned and which caused the greenfield label to be synonymous with the highest quality. our wheaten and soda breads are must-taste delicacies and armagh bramley apples have a very distinct reputation. i would therefore call on the british government in this debate to avail itself forthwith of the opportunities available under these regulations. in terms of these regulations, a complaint which i have encountered is that the process of application is unduly burdensome and bureaucratic. i would therefore make a plea that the maximum effort should be made to simplify the process so that regional products may be protected and promoted more swiftly, and i welcome what the commissioner had to say in that regard. in the context of the wto, it is vital that europe defends the rights accrued under those regulations and does not give in to the pressures coming from third countries. i agree strongly with our rapporteur that the eu must use all its clout and diplomatic skill to defend geographical indications. whilst we should take encouragement from the wto dispute settlement body's rejection of recent attacks by the united states and australia, we cannot afford any sense of complacency.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as will be clear, most of the members of the committee on legal affairs are very passionate about the legal profession. for many of us, myself included, it was our profession before we came here and, in that sense, we have an interest. yet however passionate i might have been about my former profession and its independence, i am more passionate about access to justice and legal services in general and how we make those services available to serve the public interest. the public interest in access to justice must, i believe, be our overriding goal and not the protection or convenience of lawyers who may find it more comfortable to continue to provide services in the way they have always done. the profession needs to be independent, but its protectionism should only serve the public interest. it seems to me that, in europe, we have a wonderful opportunity to look around and see what exactly best serves the public interest. for example, i have always thought that the fee scales in germany at the lower end work well to ensure that claimants with low value problems can pursue justice. in my own country, this is often a problem because the costs are so high and, where we have some form of fixed fee, the fees are so low that lawyers decline the work. these are delicate balances, but europe gives us the chance to look at many answers that may be available to these problems and to pick the best for the society we try to serve, and we should not be frightened or protective about looking for the best. i believe that so long as the commission shares that aim, we should be able to work together.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this resolution provides a vital opportunity for parliament to send a strong resolution to the parties meeting in brazil about the value that europe’s citizens place on the world’s natural resources and biodiversity. i want to focus on just two such resources. the world’s last ancient forests are being lost at a rate of more than 13 million hectares a year with devastating impact. a global network of protected forest areas must be established and funded, and countries must set measurable time-ban targets to ensure that the use, consumption and trade of biodiversity resources come only from sustainable sources. we must also urgently speak out on the issue of crops engineered using terminator technologies. these crops produce sterile seeds so farmers will be unable to save seeds from one year’s crops to sow the next, forcing them into buying seeds each year from biotech corporations whose control over seeds is already enormous: just ten corporations control more than 50% of global seed sales. the consequences for food security, especially in developing countries and for the livelihoods of poor farmers, would be huge. any proposals to undermine the moratorium on field testing and marketing of these suicide seeds must be firmly rejected, and that is what our group has tabled an amendment on tomorrow to strengthen that point.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i warmly commend my colleague’s report and indeed i welcome what he and the commissioner said in their opening statements about the budget. i think that is something parliament needs to listen to. at the moment we have an absurd budget of 0.15 cents per eu citizen – that is the total we spend each year on health in this european union – and yet we have so many health threats, health challenges and health opportunities. this week i met with iatrogenic patients. the commissioner and my honourable friend the rapporteur will understand what that means, because it is greek, but for other colleagues it means patients who have suffered severe disability or severe health problems as a result of accidents in hospital. it is one of the patient-safety issues on our agenda and was rightly put there during the british presidency. we face the challenge of an ageing population, with people living longer – mainly healthy – lives, but then becoming frail in older age and facing all the neuro-degenerative disease challenges that brings. we now have a drugs bill for parkinson’s disease higher than the drugs bill for cancer. we need to raise standards, and we raise standards in the european union by describing good standards, not prescribing them. that is the way forward; it is not very expensive; we have done it on cancer screening, starting with the irish presidency and continuing with the austrian presidency. we are calling for that on diabetes, particularly type 2 diabetes, and the commission itself is calling for something along those lines for mental health, one of the biggest challenges of our time. one in three of us will probably, at some point in our lives, have cause for concern, and indeed thanks are due if we have managed to make headway in that field. but the budget is a concern. one of the greatest threats at the moment is the flu pandemic. one of the greatest needs is the establishment of the effective running of the european centre for disease control. one of the problems, as we have heard directly from that board, is that it is under-resourced, under-financed and will not be able to do its job properly if the pandemic hits in the coming months, or even years. that must be a priority for us, but it must not be a priority which destroys the rest of our health work. we must devote time and energy and some resources to getting right the opportunities that are coming through the european courts for patient mobility. we need to concentrate on all those ranges of disease where there is public concern, whether it is heart or respiratory, rheumatological or brain disease. we also need to think of the entire range of medical science, including those newest areas, like complementary medicine, which can play their part. i recently benefited from a course of acupuncture to remove the pain of sciatica and can guarantee and vouch for the effectiveness of at least one type of complementary treatment. i also commend that element of this report to the house.
on behalf of the pse group . – mr president, firstly i want to join those who are congratulating professor trakatellis for his work and for the open and cooperative way in which he has conducted the drafting of this report. we all know that the eu has limited powers and limited resources, maybe even smaller resources than we would hope, to carry out work in field of health. it is, therefore, important that we focus our work on areas where the eu can add value and make a real difference. that is why the pse group has tried to ensure that we have real focus in the health programme. we need a health programme that forms part of a health strategy for the european union. at the moment we have a lot of ad-hoc initiatives, often coming from presidencies, on this or that condition. that is not good enough: we need a strategy and we need to define what the strategy should cover. for my part i say it should include trans-border health threats; we have heard about those, we know about the flu pandemic. secondly, it should include patient health mobility issues: with more and more people travelling, we have got to get the health card right. i get a lot of casework from people who still have problems with their health card. then there are people travelling, who want health care abroad with the e112. we have to stop letting the court make the rules about healthcare; the legislators have to make the healthcare rules. thirdly, there is the area of cooperation, of exchange of good practice on tackling health determinants. as mr trakatellis said, that is extremely important. we get a lot of lobbying on this from organisations asking us to include in the programme actions on one or other disease or condition. the pse group does not support including a list of conditions in the report, because we feel we should be focusing on the health determinants. we do not want to create a hierarchy of diseases and conditions, because many of these diseases and conditions are terrible for those who have them. keeping this sharp focus on health in the health programme is not going to be easy. we need only look at the number of amendments tabled for plenary – nearly 200 – and at the many competing demands that are being made. however, unless we have focus in the programme, unless we can show that the eu is adding value and not just making a series of declarations at summits or conferences, it will be very difficult to convince the council and the public of the need for an increased budget. so, it is over to the commission. i hope it will come forward with a health strategy, i hope we will have focus in a future health programme. we will be voting for amendment 64; we think it is very important to send a signal that healthcare matters. we know the public is sceptical about europe, but if people see us acting on things they care about, they might feel friendlier towards europe. i very much hope we will defend a good budget but also keep an eye on focus in the programme.
mr president, i warmly welcome mr trakatellis’s report. i thank and congratulate him for his excellent work on it. i also want to add my voice to those who deplore the reduced funding for the area concerned. my group will support amendment 64. in fact my group originally proposed an even higher level of funding, as you may recall. i should like to highlight, once again, one of the key issues that has already been raised and on which my group has tabled an amendment, namely the contribution of complementary and alternative medicine. over 100 million eu citizens are already using complementary medicine and its popularity is growing rapidly. improving people’s knowledge about complementary and alternative medicine can be an important way of enabling them to make more responsible and better informed choices about their health. therefore, i believe it is vital that we bring that area of medicine out of the ghetto and into the mainstream and recognise the very real benefits it can bring. heightened public awareness of the dangers of chemicals in the food chain, growing resistance to antibiotics through over-use and concern about the side-effects of some conventional drugs are all contributing to a massive re-think about the way we live and how we seek to regain our health. complementary medicines with a holistic and person-centred approach are attracting an ever-widening public. it is important to acknowledge that as a phenomenon. yet there is still a huge disparity between public demand for those medicines and the negligible amount of funding for research in that field. it is vital that we close that gap. i strongly support those amendments which refer to the seriousness of environmental pollution as a risk to health and a major source of concern for european citizens. that needs to be addressed urgently as part of a preventive healthcare strategy. as mrs breyer has already set out, our group believes that the participation of civil society is vitally important to the formulation and implementation of european health policy. i welcome the proposed increase in funding to enable its greater involvement, as i do the criteria outlined in amendment 53, which makes clear the need for independence from industry, commercial and business interests. amendment 141, by the liberals, however, muddies the water and takes away precisely the legal certainty that amendment 53 sets out. for that reason i would urge colleagues to reject it.
(the speaker spoke irish) mr president, current fears regarding any possible mutation of bird flu means that the public is aware of the need for a joined-up strategy in relation to communicable diseases. at the same time, we need to recognise that non-communicable diseases are by far the greatest causes of the burden of disease and we need to put our resources where they will be most effective. i also ask the house to support the amendment that calls for the involvement of disadvantaged communities in the shaping of future health policies. we cannot hope to tackle the inequalities in health without the active input of those whose life experience makes them experts in this field. i also support the inclusion of complementary and alternative medicine in the action supported by the programme and i strongly support health as a separate programme from consumer protection. the community action programme in health has the potential to support the mainstreaming of health in all community policies. the eu is in a unique position to complement the work undertaken in member states, to study the impact of other policies on health, to promote access to information, to improve the early detection evaluation and communication of risks and to make recommendations on best practice. (the speaker spoke irish)
mr president, i rise on a point of order pursuant to rule 151(3). when you asked if there were any objections, i stood up, but obviously you were unable to see me. rule 151(3) states: ‘the president shall decide whether amendments are admissible.‘ the president’s decision pursuant to paragraph 3 concerning the admissibility of amendments is not based exclusively on the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this rule but on the provisions of the rules in general.’ on the rules in general, there is another rule that says our business should always be transparent. we have here 140 different amendments, which mrs sinnott wishes to change – even as we are discussing them – with an oral amendment. how is it possible to vote ‘yes’ or ‘no’ on 140 different amendments? this is pure nonsense. i would ask you to interpret the rules to the effect that they are inadmissible and that we vote on them on an individual basis.
in writing. i support the community's action plan on public health. i believe it is a commodity of prime importance and its protection concerns everyone without exception. the objectives of the programme protect citizens against health threats, promote policies that lead to a healthier way of life and contribute to the development of more effective and efficient health systems. i particularly support the challenge to all to contribute to ensuring more effective prevention, improved health services, and a better quality of life. bridging the gaps between existing differences in member states' health services, in combination with synergy between the national health services, should be acknowledged as an important aspect of the programme.
in writing. we are voting against this report as we want to keep our sovereignty on the registration of the agricultural products. the application process is over-bureaucratic. we can not accept a community agency with responsibility for the registration procedure. however, we believe that member states should be responsible for the registration procedure. we do not want to have a community label as well. we want to protect clotted cream just as the greeks want to defend their feta. but to be even-handed. we do not understand why, provided labelling is clear, such as in the case of yorkshire feta, which is quite clearly not greek feta, we cannot allow both of these products to coexist in british food stores. we do not think that harmonisation is a positive idea.
mr president, like most of my british conservative delegation colleagues, i voted in favour of mr brok’s excellent report and i congratulate him. nevertheless, my party opposes the constitutional treaty for the european union and therefore we voted to delete paragraph 6, as it is clear that the current wave of enlargement from 15 to 25 member states has worked extremely well under the nice formula, without an eu constitution. british conservatives believe that the previous five waves of enlargement have been a success story, as will the accession of romania and bulgaria, in all probability scheduled now for 1 january 2007. enlargement beyond that can be accommodated by new intergovernmental conferences. we as conservatives believe in a wider, looser european union of cooperating nation states, hence our overall support for mr brok’s excellent report.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party supports a positive attitude towards future eu enlargement, in particular honouring commitments made to candidate and potential candidate countries. in this respect, it is inappropriate to propose other 'operational possibilities' in paragraph 10 of the resolution, as relations with neighbouring countries are clearly covered by the accession process and the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. i am a strong supporter of enlargement of the eu. while the report contains much with which i agree, i cannot support the negative slant given to turkey, in particular the inaccurate statement in paragraph 31 that turkey is in some way obstructive within nato. furthermore, along with other british conservatives, i am profoundly opposed to a european constitution and cannot accept the language of paragraph 6.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the european union wants to fund consumer organisations, both governmental and non-governmental, to the amount of eur 1.2 billion, to bring them into line with existing and future legislation. like so much that comes from this parliament, it is not possible to object to the subject-matter itself. who would object to better and more efficient consumer protection measures where they are required? in britain we already have high standards of consumer protection legislation and have had for many years. no doubt european countries should learn from each other and from non-european countries by adopting international best practice on a national basis, selecting that which is best suited for their particular needs. but as we would expect, this report speaks of uniformity, integration and harmonisation. the objective of this report is not the adoption of legislation – that is good in itself – but, like everything else that comes from this parliament, it serves the purpose and process of extending power and dominion to the european union. it will add to the acquis communautaire, the body of law that, once accrued to the european union, is never returned to nation states. there are also some disturbing overtones contained in suggestions that patterns of consumption, linked to sectors of the population, should be adopted. such intelligence-gathering in terms of consumer consumption could compromise the privacy of the citizen. that is already being done in britain by private retail companies using such devices as loyalty cards. however, the consumer has some choice about whether to participate, depending on where and how they choose to shop. that kind of information-gathering on the citizen is not something that should be undertaken by the state; certainly not in the form as represented by the european union.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i, like all my mep colleagues, am horrified by the brutal murder of opposition leader altynbek sarsenbayev on 13 february. i welcome the fact that president nazarbayev has called in the fbi to track down the culprits, and his statement of 21 february on punishing the perpetrators. i am also encouraged by the recent arrest of five suspects. of course there are still concerns regarding democracy and human rights in kazakhstan. we in the eu are rightly concerned about any instability in this key strategic central asian republic, which is anxious not to get too close to russia or china, but to get closer to us in the eu. as the rapporteur for the european neighbourhood policy, i have suggested including kazakhstan in that policy. this follows a tradition in which it was the european parliament that first raised the question of such a status for the three caucasus republics, which was duly granted by the council in due course. kazakhstan has a westward extension, which makes a strong case geographically for its european neighbourhood status. it also has a strong secular tradition inherited from its soviet past, with a very large european christian minority living in harmony with the indigenous kazakh muslim people. of strategic importance to the eu are its vast oil and gas reserves, which it is anxious to sell to the eu without depending entirely on russian pipelines to transport its natural resources. moreover, the kazakh diversification policy includes plans to liquefy its natural gas for export via the trans-caspian route. in this context, and less appreciated, is the vast potential supply of kazakh yellow cake uranium from mines coming onstream, which will be vital to supplying the eu’s future nuclear energy needs. the eu must extend every help to this vast, under-populated, geopolitically key country and we in the ppe-de group will not support the biased joint text unless our amendments are carried.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, normally if you invite the political group leaders to take the floor it is because of some tragedy which has afflicted our world. it is a pleasure today to be invited to celebrate something which can only be regarded as a victory. in western europe, thanks to the political leaders of the post-war generation, we enjoy democracy. in a democracy, a change comes through the ballot, not through the bullet. the actions of eta, the ira, the red brigades and the other terrorist groups we have known in the past have been unjustifiable terrorist actions. on behalf of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, i welcome the process through which eta has announced this ceasefire. i look forward to seeing dialogue and democracy as the basis for change in spain and across our continent. (applause)
mr president, i certainly join in welcoming this announcement. i also join in the expressions of regret and sympathy in respect of eta’s very many unnecessary victims. i do that somewhat from a personal perspective in that we, in northern ireland, likewise suffered unnecessary decades of terrorism. i would join in your words of caution from the experience in northern ireland. certainly it is good to see this ceasefire. we hope it is permanent, but mr poettering is absolutely right: there can be and should be no reward for doing what is right. the mistake that was made in my country, when the associate organisation of eta declared its ceasefire back in 1994, was that everyone rushed forward with political rewards for that which had been done. that proved to be disastrous, because it encouraged a belief that you could keep a foot in both camps. you cannot be a terrorist by night and a politician by day. there must be a total transition to exclusively peaceful means. the spanish authorities should therefore learn from the experience in northern ireland. they should test eta’s commitment and bona fides and realise that you should not and cannot give rewards for doing that which was necessary and right. in welcoming the ceasefire, i offer that advice and that caution from the experience in my country. (applause)
mr president, i would like to join with you and the people of spain in welcoming the good news you have received. i think it is very good for your region. as someone who also comes from northern ireland, during the earlier part of my 16 years in this house, i had to rise nearly every month to express condolences to the people of my area. it is the one thing i do not miss having to do in this house now that we have some degree of normality in northern ireland. i hope that goes for the people of spain as well. i would echo the words of mr poettering – and indeed i have learned from my own experience – that it is much easier to make war than it is to make peace. i agree with mr poettering when he said that those who have been waging that war and taking those lives should not be rewarded for bringing an end to that now. (applause)
mr president, i rise to commend you for ensuring respect for the rules of the house, for showing the flexibility to meet the demands of our colleagues for a vote tomorrow morning and i move that we proceed forthwith to next business.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, today we debate the commission’s priorities for 2007, but tomorrow our heads of state and government must find the means, the guts and the grit to make these priorities a reality. we have before us a blueprint for the future with its emphasis on knowledge, enterprise, jobs and energy. the 2007 annual policy strategy succeeds in putting flesh on the bones of the hampton court proposals, which could help make europe the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world, if member states would only move beyond the platitudes dished up at the annual lisbon spring council. i have seen the draft council conclusions. fine words from such faint hearts! europe deserves better. it deserves the shared responsibility of which mr barroso spoke. that is why liberals and democrats welcome the ambition displayed by the european commission. this paper promises what previous annual policy strategies manifestly failed to provide: practical proposals for european renewal by creating legal migration channels and a common european asylum system – and their corollary of better border management – to provide the workers and security that europe needs; by fast-tracking a european energy policy; completing the internal market for energy and gas; investing in clean coal technologies; and balancing flexibility and social protection with the demands of markets to boost growth and competitiveness. there is one thing that the commission has not learned. it puts the use of resources and environmental protection under the heading of solidarity. it should put them under the heading of prosperity, because until we learn that the environment and green growth is part of prosperity rather than solidarity, we will not have the correct perspective on such matters. add to these the enlargement of the eurozone and the welcoming of bulgaria and romania, and 2007 could be a seminal year for europe, particularly if we get the constitutional process back on track. however, success hinges on a factor that has been absent up to now, and cannot be replaced by any number of commission proposals: national ownership of necessary reforms by member states. who will trust leadership which says one thing and does another; which agrees policies, but then backtracks, disrupts and weakens their implementation? i refer not only to attacks on the services or takeovers directives from economic protectionists, i am talking about a more general myopia that prevents member states from seeing the bigger picture; the myopia which prompted the council to throw out proposals to name and shame poorly performing countries and refuse adequate funding for europe’s priority areas. it is also one reason why the ambitions of last year’s annual policy strategy to make progress on doha, on the lisbon goals and on the constitution came famously unstuck. so that is the challenge facing europe’s leaders when they convene for tomorrow’s spring council. europe needs them to construct a coalition of the coherent.
mr president, president barroso’s quotation from montesquieu prompted me to search the annual policy strategy for a clue as to what the commission proposes to do with the constitution. there are no clues. a policy strategy that fails to address the principal political blockage in front of the union should be assessed fairly critically. without the constitution, the union will fail to have the capacity to act to fulfil the commission’s ambitions for it. public opinion will remain sceptical about the european project and, without the support of public opinion, the commission will lack the necessary clout inside the council. the classical function of the commission would be to broker an agreement between the warring partners in a crisis. i hope that mr barroso, when he addresses the parliamentary forum on 9 may, will be able to lay out a comprehensive commission strategy towards finding a way out of the crisis. for all the value we find in plan d, the best way to boost trust through action will be to salvage the constitution. perhaps it is now time for plan b.
mr president, when i spoke on the commission’s policy strategy at the end of last year, i commented on the fact that we had no sense whatsoever of priorities in that strategy. we have 62 priorities in this splendid new document. i also see that we have now proceeded from ‘moving up a gear’ to ‘boosting trust through action’. i am not sure whether mrs wallström is still there, and i do not know whether she is responsible for inventing these wonderful phrases, but we need a much more structured and practical strategy approach from the commission than these gimmicky words. i also observe in here, mr barroso, that you are going to ‘take delivery up to cruising speed’! well frankly, that means that at the moment things are proceeding at a walking pace. we want some take-off from the commission, not just cruising along. the problem with your strategy is not that we are short of new ideas or new initiatives, but we are actually short of real delivery of the policies that are going to create the jobs and growth of which you are so fond. where is there a sense in here that you are putting some real resources and priorities into sorting out the problems of the internal market? there is a little paragraph in here that you are going to streamline the regulatory approach, that is great, but where is it in your priority actions? you used a great phrase – and i applaud you for it – about putting out the red carpet for small enterprises. there is not one single priority action, president barroso, that mentions small enterprises. so, it is very welcome that we are having a debate about this, but we need better-quality material; we need material that is much more focused on real strategy and resource utilisation, rather than on these gimmicky words that mrs wallström appears to be giving you. we want something with a real sense that you are putting priorities on delivering the real foundations of the european union and making the internal market work better, and not just coming out with a whole set of uncosted priorities that look good on paper but in respect of which there is no idea as to whether they are really going to work in practice.
mr president, i have read all 15 dreary pages of this document and believe it to be a report of the past rather than a document for the future. the phrase that comes to mind is one often seen on a schoolboy’s report: ‘could do better’. indeed, if your dream is to change the minds of the people of the european union, it is a ‘must do better’. we are treated to terms like ‘strategic objects’, ‘policy strategy’, ‘new directions’, ‘effective communications’ and ‘genuine dialogues’. we are promised that more money will be spent on regional funds, cohesion funds, social funds, globalised funds, fisheries funds, etc. – all this to gain the trust and commitment of the citizens. but where are the words ‘freedom’, ‘choice’ and ‘the individual’? george orwell’s 1984 comes to mind – except that i believe he got the year wrong, but it is just around the corner; then it will be ‘control, control, control’ of the individual. given the referendums on the eu, or even the elections, the true sentiments of the people will show that most want to say ‘no’ to this bureaucratic nightmare.
mr president, i am sorry that president barroso has been summoned by the belgian authorities. i am sure if he parks his car more carefully in future he will be able to stay until the end of our debates, but no doubt the message will be taken back to him. i welcome the title of this document: ‘boosting trust through action’. sometimes you boost trust through action, and sometimes by non-action. sometimes it is by withdrawing action, by sunset clauses, by reviews, and it is always by checking the small print of the proposals. we do nothing to boost confidence among our electors by having silly stories as we have had in the united kingdom this week about church organs, and the european union’s intention under the weee directive to ban church organ repairs and building because of the lead content. that is daft and i hope if there is any threat of that there will be a swift telephone call from the vatican to say that st peter’s basilica will not stand for such nonsense. however, that is the small print. i believe we should be reconnecting with our constituents, we should relocate that purpose of our european venture and we should communicate it to the public. you do that for example by the next debate on energy, by showing that we are working together in solidarity to face any threats that there may be. montesquieu has been quoted. as dumas wrote, ‘all for one and one for all’: we need the european grid of energy which can resist any attempt to pick off any one of our member states. it is also about working on health to make sure that we have the collective work done on the flu pandemic preparations. we must take up the austrian proposal for a diabetes framework; we must work hard on the commission’s own proposal on mental health. mrs wallström will agree with me that we must work hard to convince the public that we can get it right on chemicals and on pollution issues, eco-labelling and all those other things which would make sense to the public. they would see it as value added by the european union and then we will not have the same problems that some of our member states had recently in terms of voting in referenda.
author. – mr president, i am delighted to be putting this question on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy. it follows the question that was debated in january on the subject of security of supply of energy. the world has moved on a little since then. we have now the green paper from the commission and the conclusions of the council meeting last week. both of those are of great interest and show clearly that many of the points raised in debate previously have been taken on board. i would like to thank the commissioner and congratulate the council for doing that. it is also welcome that energy matters have risen to the top of the agenda. this is an issue crucially about import dependence on a range of fuels. therefore, our question asks what the commission will do in order to react appropriately to developments and changes in the geopolitical, strategic and diplomatic situation. however, i wish to emphasise that i feel those aspects are more within the purview of our colleagues in the committee on foreign affairs. i am very happy for some of my colleagues who will follow in this debate to make those points. the most important point to make about security of supply is the essential requirement of diversity: diversity of fuel, diversity of source and diversity of technology. this is absolutely essential. i should like to make the point that i was a little disappointed in the green paper – which we look forward to debating in full and due course – because perhaps not enough recognition was given to the crucial role of nuclear energy in providing the largest share of electricity in the european union. parliament recently adopted an amendment seeking an ambitious but realistic target of 60% of electricity in the european union coming from ultra-low or non-carbon-emitting sources. this is only possible with a combination of renewable energy sources and nuclear energy. i note with great pleasure that the council conclusions refer to ‘sustainable and efficient energy systems’. nuclear energy springs to my mind in that context. however, there are other energy sources that we must remember. since the eu enlarged, our proportion of dependence on imports of coal has gone down from 50% to 35%, because one particular member state is a significant producer of coal. we should not lose sight of the benefits and potential of clean coal technology when we have this significant indigenous energy source. the motion for a resolution attached to this oral question places emphasis, among other things, on greater efficiency in the transport sector. it places emphasis on the importance of researching and developing future energy technologies and it looks to proposals for improving energy efficiency in buildings. we have given the commissioner four questions and we look forward to hearing from him in due course. we want to know what we can do about reducing our dependence on imported oil and gas. we want to know what other sources he thinks we may develop. perhaps he has some thoughts on gas supplies, management of gas stocks and storage facilities for gas. finally, we look to the commission to weave into this issue of security of supply the related question of climate change and how we adjust our energy policy in a post-kyoto era to achieve our three aims of sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply. (applause)
mr president, the eu’s shambolic liberalisation of the energy market has already resulted in gross distortions. good europeans, like britain, diligently liberalise their markets but bad europeans, like france and germany, have refused to do so. liberalisation has directly resulted in enormous increases in the wholesale gas price in the uk. the eu has added more than gbp 200 per annum to the average uk gas bill. now the eu wants a common energy policy so it can get its hands on what remains of britain’s gas and oil reserves. mr chichester asks how the council and commission will react to developments in the world energy market and how supplies will be secured: it is the right question, but it has been put to the wrong people. he should be putting it to the british government. the conservative party, in the form of mr chichester, is yet again inviting the european union to meddle further and deeper in britain’s affairs. britain should follow the example of france and germany and protect its own national interests and those of its domestic energy consumers.
mr president, i am pleased the joint resolution is balanced and not a knee-jerk reaction. energy has shot up the political agenda, but geo-political initiatives are only one part of tackling the security of supply problem. the way forward still lies largely in our own backyard. we need to tackle the demand side of the equation by putting real effort into implementing energy efficiency measures and by developing indigenous sources of energy, particularly renewables. this is underlined by the paragraphs on sustainable energy sources and amplified by a number of amendments which we in the alde group will be supporting. even on the issue of gas supply, much of the answer lies close to home. heavy industrial users in the north-east of england have had to fight to get hold of gas supplies even at inflated prices because the market is simply not working. the spring council tomorrow needs to bite the bullet and name and shame those member states who have failed to open up their gas markets.
mr president, energy security and diversification of the source of supply has dramatically risen up the political agenda this year following the use of the ‘gas weapon’ by gazprom against ukraine and moldova over the new year period. it is no longer a technical matter confined to technocrats and has become as much a part of the cfsp as the remit of energy ministers. as rapporteur for the european neighbourhood policy, i was very conscious that many of the member countries – e.g. algeria and azerbaijan – were producers of oil and gas, and others were central to the pipeline transit systems of fuel to western europe, such as ukraine. i have repeatedly made a case for a stable kazakhstan to join the enp, as it is eager to get away from the risk of economic and political dominance by russia and china and could indeed supply not just oil and gas but also uranium to the european union, as we will inevitably have to build more nuclear reactors to satisfy kyoto and not be over-reliant on unstable regions of the world –such as the middle east, venezuela or nigeria, to name but a few – for fossil fuels. i respect the anti-nuclear countries, such as austria and ireland, but new technologies such as transmutation, will, i believe, one day solve the long-term, high-radiation waste concerns of the general public. obviously, a lot also needs to be done by the member states – preferably through intergovernmental cooperation – to work towards more energy efficiency, to develop more technologies in the form of renewables, but also to interconnect their electricity grids in a pan-european system, which will drive down prices and allow spare capacity. there is also a need to connect the existing oil and gas pipelines between the eu member states. spain is apparently virtually self-sufficient but isolated in this respect, and the baltic countries are too reliant on connections to russia, but have now agreed, much to their credit, to a new nuclear power station between themselves. i also believe russia must be encouraged to join the energy charter to prevent it from stopping third countries using its pipelines. there is also a clear gap in that the international energy agency allows only for strategic oil reserves, not for gas reserves. some member states of the european union seem to have no reserves at all.
mr president, i welcome this resolution as a recognition that there is indeed an energy crisis in europe. i can tell you that, as a mep representing the united kingdom – where gas prices are three times the price of gas in the netherlands and where factories have been warned that they may have to close for a while due to gas shortages. the single european energy market does not work. the answer is not to retract into narrow nationalism, but to cooperate and make the system work better. we need to develop the common european energy policy. hurricane katrina and gazprom/russia’s recent behaviour are two major incidents which have forced our hands on this issue. since the encouraging noises that we heard in hampton court, i am afraid we have seen some disappointing new moves from the member states: their continuing failure to implement current existing legislation in this field; price-fixing in the energy market; new protectionism and the establishment of new national champions. none of this bodes well for the forthcoming meeting tomorrow where we hope we do not see more back-pedalling by the council. this is the first time that we in parliament have had a chance to comment on the green paper. our first initial reaction must be one of disappointment: there are no new targets and no concrete proposals to establish a common energy policy. there is no way you are going to get investment of one trillion euro without more long-term planning. this paper entirely ducks the issue of transport and aviation and their contribution to the energy debate. it needs a lot of work by parliament. i hope that we will be able to cooperate in this field and that we do not need a third serious incident to make the member states realise we have to act in this field.
mr president, it is right in our resolution to wind up this debate that we put emphasis on an integrated strategy for the mission in the democratic republic of congo, a clear time-limit for troop deployment, together with an exit strategy, as well as stressing the need for protection for the forces themselves. however, i want to challenge the assumption in recital a that security in the european neighbourhood, particularly the balkans, should come first. of course the neighbourhood is crucial, but with balkan countries moving towards accession and stabilisation, we should be talking about fewer eu troops, not maintaining them at current levels. time after time this parliament passes resolutions for a common foreign and security policy with europe a leader in global affairs. we say that terrorism in our streets is generated from fragile states worldwide, why should we then seek to limit our ambitions to the european neighbourhood? we pass resolutions to combat world poverty, yet are we ready to apply them in the ninth poorest country in the world, with one of the highest rates of infant mortality? as the international crisis group says, ‘everything from elections, to humanitarian assistance, to economic activity depends on establishing a secure environment’. a decade of war in the drc has cost four million lives, and still a thousand people a day die from war-related causes. we receive daily reports of massacres, civilian killings, widespread rape and sexual violence. these elections are a moment of hope. europe is providing our biggest ever aid to support the election process. the request for them to be accompanied by security forces comes from all factions in the transitional national government. it is a request to which we should agree.
mr president, i am very much in favour of a developing common foreign and security policy in the european union. now that the european union is larger than the united states, richer than the united states and gives more assistance to the third world than the united states, it is only right and proper that we have a common foreign and security policy dimension to that. in that sense, of course, no one is questioning the value of the request from the united nations for a mission in the democratic republic of congo. the problem is that the mission is being discussed behind closed doors and we need some democratic scrutiny. as we are increasingly sending missions to aceh – which i very much welcome as the former chief observer to the indonesian elections – and to the democratic republic of congo, we need that democratic control. the problem is that unless we have some democratic scrutiny, in a post-election system where we may see deterioration of the situation in the drc, there is a danger of mission creep and being sucked into a quagmire. we are sending an election observation mission, but we are sending this mission as well. can we be reassured that there is some close coordination between the two?
deputising for the author. – mr president, i should like to thank the council for being here for this very important debate in relation to the european development fund. as the council is aware, because of the ongoing debate on the budgetisation of the edf, no provisions relating to the financial framework were included in the revised cotonou agreement. however, in annex 1 it states very clearly that ‘the european union will maintain its aid efforts at at least the same level as that of the ninth edf’. therefore, in my view, president-in-office, the acp countries were misled into believing that they should feel secure about future funding under the tenth edf. the commission’s assessment was that for the tenth edf, eur 24.948 billion was the appropriate sum. in december, however, the council in brussels agreed on eur 22.682 billion on current prices for the 2008-2013 period. president-in-office, i give this history because i think it is relevant to the position adopted by parliament’s committee on development, which is that the development committee requires reassurance and clarification before we agree to give our assent to the amended cotonou agreement. past agreements should dictate that both the council and the commission should understand that when the development committee takes a strong stance, as we have done on the dcci, we in that committee will maintain a very strong position on our principles. our principles centre around development, and if they are not addressed, then the council should understand that we will not give our assent until that is clearly part of the way in which you are operating. one of our concerns relates to the fact that certain members of the council say that we should accept that we deduct eur 0.3 billion for the eu’s 21 overseas countries and territories and that a further eur 0.9 billion should be deducted to cover administrative costs. yesterday in committee, the director-general of dg development made it very clear that the position that you may have on the octs was not shared by the commission. will the council therefore clarify what its position on the octs is? as a british member of this parliament, i am very well aware of the position of the uk, the last council presidency. however, president-in-office, i would like to know what your position is. also, on administrative costs, how can it be sensible for the commission to pay itself for the administration of its own resources? this cannot make sense and i am sure is not something that you are familiar with in your own administration. would the member states – the council – be prepared to consider giving additional money to cover the costs of the octs? these are not unimportant caveats. i am not introducing them in a casual way, because i really want to know exactly from you how it can be the case that you make these decisions which say that you do not want to give us the assurances that the money that you are giving to the acp for the acp’s use are funds for those countries to use in a clear and transparent way. i would also take issue with the assertion that the tenth edf represents a significant improvement on the ninth edf. in real terms i would argue that it is nothing more than a stagnation. the development committee cannot and will not be duped by what we see as double-speak on this issue. the ninth edf included funds left over from the previous edf: ‘unspent money’. once this money is added to the ninth edf, the figures touted by the council are comparable only in nominal terms. when things are finalised, the tenth edf will have to be ratified and that presents us with enormous concerns when you consider that 25 member states will have to be part of this ratification process. the results of an under-spend in the past have been that we have gone in for all these facilities – water facilities, peace facilities – which have had very limited democratic control. surely this is a matter of concern for you, president-in-office? our next debate will be on economic partnership agreements and one of the most contentious issues for us, and which we will raise, will be the financing of aid for trade in the economic partnership agreements. will you clarify, president-in-office, whether you will be offering additional funds for the epa negotiations, or whether you expect such funding to come from the acp’s tenth edf? finally, if the african union is to be included, how will allowances be made for the fact that many members of the african union are not acp countries? do you expect those countries to benefit from edf money if the council decides that you will support the african union from the tenth edf? we are talking about a binding agreement with the acp, and i trust that the council will reflect that in the decisions it takes on the tenth edf.
mr president, britain currently enjoys a tax derogation on red diesel that applies to leisure boating. that derogation expires in december 2006. if the derogation is not extended, the price of fuel for motorboats could treble. if this happens there will be an inevitable decline in leisure boating. the exchequer will receive less tax revenue, not more, and economic damage will be done to local communities. the continuation of the derogation is a matter between the council and the commission, but tax policy should be the sole prerogative of sovereign national governments. all british meps should lobby the minister responsible to ensure that the derogation continues. they should also join the campaign to save the derogation started by motorboat monthly magazine. i will be pleased to supply them with details of how to do so.
mr president, pursuant to the implementation of the nitrates directive, the agricultural sector in my constituency, as elsewhere, is being subjected to extensive capital expenditure for the purpose of radically increasing slurry storage capacity. to assist, a uk government scheme of grant aid was announced, with applications possible until the end of this month. then, unilaterally, the same department announced earlier this month that the scheme was closing, because the amount designated – a mere gbp 45 million – was already over-subscribed. farmers who in good faith were working to the stipulated deadline are quite clearly disadvantaged. the justification for the aid, namely the necessity to undertake excessively expensive work, still exists. the assistance, however, has now been withdrawn. this is as unfair as the gbp 45 million was patently inadequate. i therefore use this forum tonight to call on the uk government to release sufficient funds to enable this essential work to be done, otherwise the implementation of the nitrates directive will be impossible.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i should to like to thank the commissioner. i wish to begin by referring to his remark that talking about alternatives to economic partnership agreements is ‘academic’ – that was the word he used. it is very clearly stated in the cotonou agreement that alternatives are part of what the acp countries have an option on deciding to follow. therefore, commissioner, it is not an academic issue, but something that is very definitely an option for the acp. the economic partnership agreements are very complex and complicated for the acp and are the most complex and complicated negotiations they have ever engaged in. i suspect that they also present the commission with certain difficulties, if not only because of the tensions which naturally exist between dg development’s concerns and priorities and dg trade’s concerns and priorities, which are very different. we know from our own experience in this parliament that there is not always that necessary coherence between our objectives. my impression is that there are concerns that are common to all the regional negotiations and i am following them very closely. there are examples of the commission wanting a framework that facilitates trade as a first priority. the acp regions are far more interested in addressing supply side constraints and the link between epas and development support. market access remains absolutely central as an issue. the proposed opening of the economies of the acp countries – most of which are least-developed countries – is a major concern. the benefits of regional integration, market access and integrated trade and development, as my colleague mrs martens said, are absolutely clear. however, what we understand in the committee on development is that any potential benefits could be outweighed by the potential costs which they might be expected to pay. therefore, the agreements they might have to make on market access – market opening – may not be exactly what they need and perhaps they could get more from other kinds of arrangements. to be competitive and to market their goods, there needs to be substantial investment in their ability to do so. acp countries need training and their workforce needs to be improved; they need improved infrastructure, transport and institutional capacity-building. all these are major priorities for the acp. it must be said that it is not for the commission to tell the acp what a good epa is. it is up to the acp – in consultation with their parliaments, the joint parliamentary assembly and civil society – to make that kind of decision. any criteria we make on economic partnership agreements must be based on their relationship with the millennium development goals. i should like to ask the commissioner one question. the central africa negotiations are portrayed as a model of these regional negotiations. my sources tell me that dg development at its highest level – that probably means you, commissioner – is very worried about the capacity of the secretariat of the central african economic and monetary community in their negotiations. is it the case that you, commissioner, have publicly called for the executive secretary and chief epa negotiator in caemc to be dismissed? if that is the case, then how does this sit with dg trade’s description of this as being the absolute role model? finally, i should like to draw attention to the cape town declaration of the joint parliamentary assembly in 2002. benchmarks were put in place there to assess the conduct and outcome of the negotiations on the basis of key social and environmental indicators, including decent work, health, education and gender. the potential for this was confirmed last year by the acp council. will the commissioner act upon these proposals?
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, mrs morgantini’s report was very much welcomed by the committee on development because it is clear about the fundamental principles on which economic partnership should be based. as commissioner michel and commissioner mandelson have stated, economic partnership agreements must be development-friendly. that means that liberalisation must, of necessity, be asymmetrical. there can be no question of forcing acp countries to open up their markets to european goods until their own domestic markets are much more firmly established. from the european side, we can offer aid for trade measures to help with this market-building and with supply-side constraints. of the amendments tabled for plenary, the alde group will be supporting those which underline that the pace of market opening should be driven by the acp and that there is scope for the eu to work much more closely with acp partners in world trade negotiations. together, the acp countries and the eu form a substantial block. the alde group will also be supporting those amendments from the ppe-de group which offer improved wording and avoid overly restrictive definitions of, for instance, decent working benchmarks. some ngos have campaigned on a simple platform of ‘no’ to epas, but that could be throwing the baby out with the bathwater. the regional integration which is part of the epa process will help acp countries to prosper, to increase south-south trade and the removal of tariff barriers between neighbouring acp countries. the essential point at every stage of the epa negotiating process is to ensure that the outcome works in favour of development. i hope the commission will at all times be genuinely and consistently guided by that principle and by this report.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, thank you for giving me the floor in what seems, at this stage in the evening, more like an open meeting of the constitutional affairs committee, with some other members very welcome to join us. my group supports the report that has been put forward by our rapporteur, the chairman of the constitutional affairs committee. as we have heard, it concerns adjustments to the system that we adopted over a year ago now. these adjustments are necessary because of the teething problems that we have discovered in operating the system. they are sensible and pragmatic and i would urge the commission – for that parts of the report which are addressed to the commission, such as those pertaining to the financial regulation – to take them up. political parties are not ngos, they are fulfilling a different role and they are vital for the functioning of our democratic system. what we have set up and what we are hoping to improve is a system where we have – and the public can see that we have – a clear, transparent and fair system for funding the european level of work of political parties. this is something that recent events have shown is not always the case at national level. we should be proud that we are putting in place a sound structure at european level to finance the work of european political parties. it is important that we do so, because what political parties offer is choice to the voter, different visions, different programmes, different ideas, different proposals. it is that choice which gives life to political debate at european level. it does one more thing: it shows that the choices we face at european level are really choices of policy, not choices between national viewpoints and national visions. all too often, the press, in focusing on european council meetings, gives the impression of some gladiatorial combat between national interests. but the real choices we face are policy choices. do you want higher environmental standards but at a greater cost or not? do you want our markets to be a totally liberal free-for-all or to be regulated with protection for vulnerable people? these are all political decisions, political choices that are highlighted by political parties; they are often hidden away in the council. that is essential for our union to work effectively. we already have ten parties registering. that shows that this system is working. there were some who claimed that this would only be financing the big parties. well, some would say that ten parties is a very wide range of parties being financed. there were those who are not here tonight – including mr hannan from the ppe-de group – who said that this was going to finance only pro-european parties, as if there were a rule that we could bias the funding towards a particular political viewpoint. this of course is not the case. what we have seen and achieved and what we hope to improve is a sound system, one that is necessary and one that will enhance the quality of democratic debate at european level.
mr president, this resolution speaks of the gulf between the public and the european institutions. those who think that more europe with europe-wide political parties is the answer are, i believe, missing the point. it is the institutions, not the people, which are at fault. their expressions of disdain are clear enough: witness the lamentable turnout in european elections. indeed, most meps in this house come to this house with an embarrassingly low mandate. i do not see the citizens of europe out on the streets demanding the right to vote for european political parties, but i do find them demonstrably rejecting an ever-increasingly centralised europe such as in france and holland last year. european political parties, that it is hoped might eclipse national parties, may fit the template of european integration, but the rock upon which they will perish is that of democratic rejection when they have to face the harsh reality of seeking a popular mandate from real people on real issues. it is one thing to play at superstatehood in this rarefied house; it is quite another to face the real issues of our electorate. the narrow political vision of this venture is evident from recitals a and b. it is seen as the next step towards european integration and as building a european political area. clearly these parties are seen as part of the machinery of a federal europe. federalist parties for federalist politicians might make some intellectual sense, but i would welcome a fight with them any day in my constituency. i should also say that it is not right to try and buy success by throwing endless supplies of taxpayers’ money at european parties. do not kid yourselves! our electorate does not think that much of us that it wants the privilege of paying to have us as european political parties. i thought that maybe mr corbett, drawing on the experience of his own party back in the united kingdom, was going to suggest that we could fund this endeavour by creating an upper house and then selling the membership to the highest bidder, it would not be totally out of place with some of the things that go on in this place.
mr president, i greatly support the reforms which will provide for a fair, buoyant and transparent system of public funding of political parties, something which, regrettably, does not exist in great britain at present. the growth of truly european political parties is the vital key to solving the crisis of european democracy. why? because national political parties are clearly failing to respond to the challenge of european integration. they are failing to develop a fluent discourse about european affairs, or to act as a conduit between the european national, regional and local levels. i trust that european political parties, including the representatives of mr bonde’s party, will be galvanised during the period of reflection to contribute to a resolution of the crisis, and especially to publish european papers about those fundamental questions concerning the future of europe.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, i welcome very much mr leinen’s report, so much so that my own political group will vote against any amendments to it. despite all this agreement and it being so late in the evening, we are all of the opinion that it is essential to have a debate on this important report. in the opinion for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, we highlighted the fact that this is an exercise in better law-making. the cfr and the review of the acquis can make a huge contribution to the better functioning of the internal market. however – and this was our central preoccupation – the compilation of the cfr is a political exercise: it involves political choices. therefore, the european parliament must be fully involved as a co-legislator. we all welcome the setting-up of the project group, which augurs well for good future cooperation with the commission. however, we still have a concern that the commission should present a coherent approach. that means that not only dg sanco, but also dg justice and dg internal market should be fully involved in the process. above all, this project is of practical importance for the internal market, both consumers and businesses alike. in my own country – which is not known for its support of anything that might even start to resemble a european contract code – an independent survey by a big law firm highlighted the transactional costs of an incoherent contract law in the internal market. i believe this demonstrates what many of us have always felt: practical advances in eu civil law like this can assist to make europe more popular if we get it right. however, in order to do that we must have discussion and debate. this is not just a technical legal exercise, it is a political one. if we ever get to the stage of a european contract code, then we cannot risk that it suffers the same fate as the proposed constitution last year. it has to have political support, and i hope that we, together, have put in place the appropriate mechanism to ensure that we achieve that result.
madam president, belarus unexpectedly woke up to statehood in 1991. it has had a terrible history, suffering particularly badly from the fallout from chernobyl. indeed, i was one of the authors of an amendment in the last parliament to increase the funding to help the children who are still suffering the consequences of the radioactivity to date. belarus is now saddled with a paranoid, self-isolating dictator, mr lukashenko. i described the country as the ‘cuba of europe’. mr lukashenko has no time for fair and free elections. he goes through the charade only. he believes in the stalinist saying that it does not matter how the voting is conducted, but who controls the count. bizarrely, mr lukashenko may even have had sufficient popular support – 55 to 60% – to have won the vote in a free election. however, that was not enough for a man like him: he wanted a much larger margin of a majority as a dictator, because he would fear that, if he were to become more unpopular, next time round there would be no comfort zone in which to retreat back to 55% or 60%. regrettably, russia, under mr putin, supplies gas to belarus at usd 50 per thousand cubic metres and the belarus economy is rosy enough for mr lukashenko to be able to buy the votes of pensioners, the military, the police and all the apparatus of the state. fortunately, the young are more cynical and i salute the courage of all those who have taken to the streets in protest and faced the brutality and the wrath of the militia and the kgb under mr lukashenko. at the end of the day, mr lukashenko should be considered a pariah in the west and travel bans and financial assets must be tightened up on all the members of the regime: they must be frozen. we must support their civil society and their ngos and we need a very special and generously funded visitors’ programme in the european union to bring students, journalists and members of civil society – the movers and shakers and the opinion formers – over to our parliament to see how democracy really works in action. (applause)
rapporteur. – madam president, i welcome the priority given to this issue by the commissioner. this priority is recognised and supported by all political groups in parliament. the fact that there were over 200 amendments at the committee stage for what was and is an own-initiative report, is hopefully seen as a reflection of their priority and not entirely down to the inadequacy of the rapporteur in the first place. i wish to begin by thanking colleagues in the committee on employment and social affairs, especially the shadow rapporteurs for their important input. i should like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and in particular the committee on women’s rights and gender equality – with whom we had enhanced cooperation, both officially and in practice – for their valuable opinions and for the many ideas they have also contributed to this report. however, one direct consequence of all this is that the report is too long: a tribute perhaps to our collective enthusiasm. i hope, with the support of colleagues in the vote today, that we can make it a little shorter. however, the thrust of the report should remain clear: the challenges of an aging population, with more people living much longer, with more older people who are inactive and need the support of others, and more older people who are active and need to support themselves, are not just problems for the elderly, but for society as a whole. the challenges of a declining birth rate, with fewer people of working age, who are mathematically unable to fund the larger number of pensioners; with many parents who want to have more children grappling with the pressures of combining work and family life, but who are mathematically unable to make ends meet. these are not just problems for young people, these too are problems for society as a whole. they are challenges for governments; they are challenges for businesses. there are no one-size-fits-all solutions, but, as they say in the x-files: the truth is out there! there are many different ideas around and different experiences to draw upon, not just in the european union. a number of thoughts and pointers are in this report. we now need minds to open, but, above all, we need action to follow these ideas through. i hope the commissioner feels that this report reflects not only his own priority but also his own personal sense of urgency, and that all will agree that the real work starts now.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, in the words of commissioner špidla, demographic change is not only a topical issue, but also one of the biggest challenges facing europe today. that is why the report from philip bushill-matthews is both timely and highly relevant. the problem with politicians nowadays is that we only think in five-year time frames. it is not seen as politically expedient to deal with matters that will have a dramatic impact on our lives ten or twenty years down the line. indeed, in the past few months i have been chairing a ppe-de working group dealing with specific aspects of demographic change. we have come up with some fairly useful conclusions on the issue. first of all, in the field of demography and the family, europe should not resign itself to a decline in its population. improving the overall situation for children and for young people and enhancing the compatibility of work and family life for men and women, combined with tax incentives, could have a significant impact on birth rates. secondly, it is clear that more choice and flexibility in the labour market is needed in europe. in this respect we should enhance the participation in the workforce of women, young people and older people, by providing new opportunities through, for instance, flexibility of working hours, the promotion of part-time jobs and autonomous work. the education systems need to be reformed in order to increase the efficiency and pace of higher education, thus enabling an earlier entry into working life. thirdly, skilled workers from third countries should be attracted, but according to our working group, we should not consider immigration as a single solution to europe’s future demographic and labour market problems. immigrants have to possess talents and skills that europe is short of and must be prepared to integrate themselves into our societies and accept our common values. in order to be able to face the challenge of demographic change and sustain an ever-changing society, we need to ensure the determined implementation of the lisbon agenda. the status quo is not an option. to develop and thrive, europe needs – to use one of mr barroso’s buzz words – ‘flexicurity’ and innovation. security and flexibility of the labour market will enable us to respond to the challenges of globalisation. to achieve this we need to reform our pension systems and concentrate on growth and jobs by introducing innovative measures to support the birth rate and by a judicious use of immigration. only through innovation, through re-inventing ourselves, can we be sure that the challenge of demographic change will become tomorrow’s opportunity for growth.
it is clear that if europe is to meet its demographic challenges it must address more effectively in the future than it does today the issue of work-life balance. if we are to attract parents of young children, the elderly or other groups who find standard ‘nine-to-five’ work impossible, we must achieve more flexible working hours, have better and more accessible childcare provisions, more family-friendly tax policies and greater equality in the workplace. however, it is clear even if we attract more of europe’s existing residents into the workforce we will still face skill shortages. that is why we also need to have a balanced immigration policy.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am delighted to be able to present my report on biofuels. it is an own-initiative report from the committee on agriculture and rural development. it is great to see the commissioner here and i would like to thank her and her staff for the help they have given me while compiling this report. the exciting thing about biofuels, biomass and biogas is that there is a great future for it. when you hear the president of the united states say during the state of the union address that the american economy can no longer be an oil-based mineral economy, then it shows that things are changing, and here in europe we have great possibilities. historically, farmers have always provided fuel for transport back in the days of horses, so what is the problem now with supplying fuel? with the new payments for agriculture, the new reforms of the cap, the decoupled payment and the single farm payment breaking the link between production and subsidy, we also need to find new markets for our products and that is where, as i said, cereals and oil seed rape for bio-diesel and wheat for bioethanol come into play. we can also be sure that we can create more biomass. in many countries of europe you actually see that there are forests being used effectively. where there are no forests, then we can grow willows and miscanthus to make sure that we can produce energy supply. some of these can be big projects used for power stations, others can be small projects for local heating plants and for schools and hospitals. there can be a lot of flexibility. when it comes to not only fuel but energy as a whole, biofuel and bioenergy may not be the total answer, but it is one of the answers. where, for instance, russia could possibly turn off our gas supply at any time, i think we have to look to alternatives. the one thing we must always emphasise with all this is that these types of fuels and biomass are very environmentally friendly. that is the great thing: not only is it good for farmers, but it is good for the environment. we have the present generation of fuels and biomass available, but we are also seeing new generations coming on and we will see bioplastics coming into place. i think there is a big future for that. we have seen a new process of making paper from straw, again using much more environmentally friendly chemicals. out of a ton of straw you can create half a ton of paper pulp and a quarter of a ton of bioethanol. so it shows, as i said, that we are moving forward with all these projects. to mention the common agricultural policy, we have set-aside land on which we are growing nothing. some set-aside land is very effective for environmental enhancement, but i think we should look very positively at using other set-aside land for fuel. on biofuel, volkswagen in germany has been very sympathetic to mixing fuels and creating engines that will support biofuels, but we need to put pressure on the car companies to be much more sympathetic to this. i also think we need to mix fuels much more in order to get a quality of fuel that is good for motor engines. another point about putting land into production for biofuels and biomass, is that it keeps that land in production, so that in the future if we were to need it for food supply, then that it is in production and we could switch it back to food. this is a very great bonus. finally, i would like to thank all the members of the committee on agriculture and of parliament for their support. i have visited many countries to see what is going on. we have an exciting time in front of us. commissioner, i think now is the time for parliament and the commission, along with member states, to really pull together to establish the tax incentives and get everything in place so that we can deliver a very good biofuel/biomass policy for europe. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, over the past six months, energy has very much become the topic of the moment. this was confirmed by the heads of state at hampton court, and this is a window of opportunity that we simply must seize and that is what the commission is doing. i have been very encouraged to see that the european parliament is having the same positive approach and doing exactly the same. as commissioner for agriculture and rural development, the use of non-food crops is an area of particular interest. i see here a very interesting new outlet for our agricultural sector and an interesting source of income, not only for farmers but for the whole rural economy. i therefore heartily welcome the report that we will be discussing today. its timing is excellent and it makes a valuable contribution to the debate about the non-food use of agricultural crops. i would specifically like to thank the rapporteur, mr parish, and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development, for all the work they have been doing. the commission has recently issued two communications with the aim of encouraging the use of biomass: the biomass action plan and the european strategy for biofuels. the commission’s framework programmes for research have for many years supported pioneering work into renewable bio-resources, including plastics, agri-chemicals and pharmaceuticals. the seventh framework programme for research will place a particular emphasis on the development of sustainable non-food applications. as well as offering new opportunities to farmers, the development of non-food applications for agricultural raw materials is very much in line with the whole lisbon strategy. the approach is innovative and represents a high level of european added value. on the use of biomass for energy, eurostat and the joint research centre estimate that the potential for biomass production to meet our targets for 2010 is there. the cap reform gives farmers incentives to respond to the growing demand. as well as our specific support for energy crops of eur 45 per hectare, farmers can use set-aside land to grow non-food crops. last year about 900 000 hectares of set-aside land were used for growing biomass for energy purposes. the sugar reform has now made sugar beet eligible for all bio-energy support schemes. on the processing side, however, major progress and investments are still needed. in our new rural development programming period we have the opportunity to support investments and other actions in favour of biomass for energy and other non-food purposes. cohesion policy can also play an important role. as far as the environment is concerned, i agree that we must keep a careful eye on any unwanted impact from the development of the non-food sector. this must be carefully monitored. the use of biomass is on the increase in all regions of the world, in particular for biofuels. this can clearly have economic, social and environmental benefits, but we must also be sure to maintain a proper balance between the production of food and non-food. we do not wish to develop the non-food sector in such a way as to have a negative impact on our agrifood industry or on food prices for consumers, either in the european union or in the developing countries. this is again something that we must monitor carefully. i am looking forward to a discussion here in the european parliament on the ways of using renewable energies in a more active way.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – (the speaker spoke irish)i would like to welcome the report’s call for fuel tax exemptions to promote the production of biofuels. such a policy would move us closer to the eu’s target of 5.75% for the consumption of biofuels. the active development of renewable energy will go some way towards addressing the fossil fuel crisis. it can lead to environmental improvements, although i agree with both the rapporteur and the commissioner here this morning that we need to monitor this environmental impact. it can, and will, also bring economic benefits through developing new technologies, job creation and retooling in the agricultural sector, in particular where sugar factories are earmarked for closure. (the speaker spoke irish)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i am a supporter of the development of biofuels as one of the many answers national governments need to the impending energy crisis. since the european union has so profoundly failed to protect my country from price-fixing by european energy companies, the need becomes even greater. however, i do not believe in pan-european actions on these matters, particularly in relation to setting obligatory targets. the eu’s obsession with one-size-fits-all policy-making leads to the encouragement of quick-fix solutions from national governments. we are going down that route in britain with wind turbine technology. our countryside is in the process of being turned into a monstrous meccano set for the sake of meeting renewable energy targets dreamed up by the european commission. the other problem is the propensity for the eu to bring in legislative regimes well ahead of the ability of national governments to create the necessary infrastructure to support them. again my country has suffered, not least with the growing mountains of refrigerators awaiting disposal. interest groups in favour of bio-diesel development should lobby the national government, not brussels. our own government is much better placed to come up with suitable proposals for encouraging the sensible development of biofuels in britain than the eu, which is likely to introduce a regime that will not suit us all. each nation’s needs are different and it is about time the eu took that on board.
mr president, the momentum building behind green energy, combined with the pressure on traditional agriculture, unite to offer agricultural production for non-food purposes as an alternative for some, as they consider necessary diversification. eu-wide experiences of the use of biomass for producing energy, involving both renewable raw materials and organic farm waste, should be pooled so that the most viable initiatives can be replicated across europe. my government recently announced its intention to develop northern ireland as a centre of excellence in alternative energy. the eu should financially support that endeavour. tax incentives, increased aid in respect of land use to grow energy crops, and the focused use of structural funds: all have a part to play. likewise, planning policies must help, not impede, progress. in my constituency, an anaerobic digestion plant was recently forced to close because of rigid and unnecessary planning restrictions. we clearly need a joined-up approach by various departments.
mr president, you may have an appointment somewhere else later on, i do not know, but we are here to do a job and to vote. you are going at such a furious pace that we cannot put our hands up in time in order to vote. could you please slow down? (mixed reactions)
mr president, i rise on a point of order under rule 151 on inadmissibility of amendments. i would like you to rule that none of these amendments are admissible because at 10.45 a.m. this morning when we last checked, there was no voting list on the electronic system. we therefore do not have a voting list and we will be voting on something we cannot see. i would therefore respectfully ask you to move on to the next item of business and defer this until we have a proper voting list.
mr president, could you tell us whether any members of this house declared a financial interest before voting on the previous report?
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to say that, as rapporteur, i initially did not think this made any difference to the text. having looked at it, however, i think it does improve the text so, personally, i am in favour.
in writing. i welcome the community's action programme to set up a joint health and consumer protection programme. the action programme aims to deliver an opinion on the consumer protection aspect for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection - the committee responsible. it will do this by harmonising consumer protection throughout the single market, enabling citizens to move freely within the eu and buy goods with the same confidence as in their countries of origin. by providing a better understanding of consumers and markets, this action programme protects citizens from risks and threats beyond the control of individuals. i am also particularly in favour of this action programme as it will put health and consumer issues at the centre of policy-making in the eu.
in writing. the ppe-de group has decided to abstain on paragraphs 10, 22, 27 and 29 not because we have objections to the content, but because these paragraphs were clearly defined as originated by the verts/ale group. that group regularly abuses the process of negotiating joint motions. until the last moment they skilfully obtain the insertion of several paragraphs coming from their own resolution and the deletion of text they dislike, but at the end they refuse to sign the joint resolution, for some spurious reason such as one word in the text being unacceptable for the greens. compromise means giving and taking on both sides and at the end accepting something that is not exactly what you originally wanted. the ppe-de group believes that if the verts/ale group wants to play its role in a democratic and fair way it has to play the game.
in writing. i voted for this resolution because as a london mep i believe that recently published energy sector inquiries found that some continental firms have been guilty of price fixing. it is this kind of price fixing and long-term contracts which have led to disparities between london and continental gas prices. i want the european commission to respond to this robustly. i am also concerned about key issues of fuel poverty in my constituency not covered in this resolution.
in writing. british conservatives are opposed to eu involvement in military activities, which are an aspect of eu political integration, produce no additional military capabilities and undermine established military alliances. there is a tragedy brewing in the congo, but the proposed international deployments do not address this. the eu is neither designed nor equipped to handle such matters from a military standpoint. nor should it be. the eu has not even been able to fulfil its meagre security obligations to sudan, where it insisted on a role when nato was already committed. there have been two eu civil missions in the congo and it is not clear what the mandate of any eu military mission would now be. the congolese government has not requested it. clearly this exercise is cosmetic, designed more to publicise the eu label than to overcome the congo's problems. the eu should respond to un requests through use of its political, humanitarian, electoral observation and development assistance tools. depending on the context, these matters should be the responsibility of nations, nato or the un. british conservatives are supportive of the un in its many difficult tasks but not of eu military adventures. we therefore voted against the resolution.
mr president, whilst i would disagree with the previous speaker and say that also at european level we need political parties to offer choice to citizens, i should like to place on record that i disagree with one of the suggestions that has been floated in the context of the leinen report, namely that we should have european-level lists for elections to the european parliament. such a proposal would, for a start, need an amendment to the treaties to be made now, while we are still in a period of reflection about what to do as regards treaty amendment. i also think it is not necessary. there is a risk that such lists might place the members elected through them further away from citizens than those who are elected in the regions, as most of us are. where we could explore a useful way of linking the european elections to the idea of choice for citizens, is by taking up the idea that our rapporteur made just a few minutes ago, namely that each european political party should name its candidate for president of the commission. that would make a link between the vote for a parliament and the resultant composition of the executive that people are indeed used to when they vote in national elections in european countries.
in writing. i welcome this report which is a response to the trends resulting in demographic changes. according to the commission, in order to face up to demographic change, europe should pursue three essential priorities: a return to demographic growth, ensuring a balance between the generations, and 'finding new bridges between the stages of life'. in our society, it is more important than ever that we confront our demographic challenges and harness the knowledge of our older citizens to the best of our ability.
in writing. i welcome in principle this report by my colleague neil parish on the promotion of crops for non-food purposes. while these techniques will not solve our energy problems, they can make a small but significant contribution. fast-growing willows and poplars can be used, as i saw some years ago in austria, to provide small-scale heat and electricity supply in remote, isolated areas. oil-seed rape and wheat can be used in the production of biofuels whether diesel or petrol and save on co2 release. yet one warning: the schemes must be part of the solution, not the problem. where they make economic, environmental and energy sense, i will support them, when they merely maintain agricultural expenditure at the expense of common sense, i will not.
in writing. the report on the promotion of crops for non-food purposes is extremely timely given the rapidly declining reserve of fossil fuels. the cultivation of biomass, for example, can contribute efficiently in decreasing the greenhouse effect, which is primarily caused by co2, by buffering the co2 emission. i am in favour of the promotion of renewable energy through the production of crops. several current technologies, such as energy derived from biomass, are economically viable and competitive and will, in turn, open up new markets for farmers in the european union, thus stimulating economic, social and environmental growth.
mr president, i should like to raise the question of zimbabwe. as we all know, there has unfortunately been no change for the better in that country. on the contrary, the political situation continues to deteriorate and half of the rural population is surviving solely on international food aid. parliament has consistently taken the position that no assistance from the eu should go to zimbabwe other than through ngos; it should not be in any way in the hands of government. i am therefore a little alarmed to hear that apparently the commission is intending to release eur 1 million in aid to zimbabwe for so-called ‘parliamentary reform’, administered, admittedly, through the united nations development programme. the united nations development programme itself states that it is an ‘impartial and trusted partner with the zimbabwean government’. i hope the commission can give us an explanation before it releases any aid and that it can also give us assurances on this matter.
mr president, i want to draw members’ attention to a set of pan-european scams which target small businesses. the best known of these is the ‘european city guide’ from spain, but there are others: ‘construct data’ in austria, ‘novachannel’ and ‘intercable verlag’ in switzerland, ‘deutsche addressdienst’ and ‘tvv verlag’ in germany. they all mail deliberately deceptive documents to small businesses across europe. these are disguised as free update forms, but hidden in the small print is a notice indicating that signature of the form will incur huge costs. recently a swiss newspaper revealed that there is just one man – meinolf lüdenbach – behind most of these organisations. he also controls the debt companies that pursue victims once they have been duped into signing. his network amounts to a conspiracy to defraud small businesses in europe. these scams hop from country to country, taking advantage of our divergent legal systems to escape justice. i am therefore delighted that commissioner kyprianou has agreed to look into this matter and i would urge all colleagues who have examples of these in their constituencies – and there are many of you, i know – to write to him with information so that he can complete his dossier.
mr president, one of my constituents, alexander litvinenko, was formerly a lieutenant colonel in the russian federation’s fsb, the successor to the kgb. mr litvinenko’s exposure of illegal fsb activities forced him to seek political asylum abroad. before deciding on a place of refuge, he consulted his friend, general anatoly trofimov, a former deputy chief of the fsb. general trofimov reportedly said to mr litvinenko: ‘don’t go to italy, there are many kgb agents among the politicians. romano prodi is our man there’. in february 2006, mr litvinenko reported this information to mario scaramella of the guzzanti commission investigating kgb penetration of italian politics. this allegation against a former head of the european commission is one of the utmost seriousness. it should be thoroughly investigated. the european parliament should conduct its own investigation.
i am suggesting it would be appropriate for parliament to conduct such an investigation in view of mr prodi’s former position as president of the european commission. it seems that the much-vaunted democratic credentials of this parliament could be enhanced by such an investigation.
mr president, i want to raise the case of a company in my constituency. hygrade – a subsidiary of the danish company tulip – is proposing to close two factories in chard and chippenham with the loss of 300 and 500 jobs respectively. this will devastate those two market towns. at the moment they are going through a consultation on the proposed closures, which is frankly farcical. already residents in new neighbouring housing in chippenham have guarantees in their mortgages that the company will close. in chard, it is already planning to remove equipment. i hope you will raise that point with the commission. at the same time, this is a company that is not facing bankruptcy but is making massive profits. in the negotiations, it is offering people who have been loyal to it for as long as 22 years the minimum redundancy payment available. it supplies its goods and services mainly to the co-op and tesco – they are food processing companies. i hope that people will put pressure on those companies, which talk very often about fair trade, to ensure that the workers at the factories that supply them get a fair deal.
mr president, i am sorry i was not here earlier: it was air france’s fault. i would just like to mention that air france has cancelled flights from london. i want to raise the issue of the 84 lisbon directives that have been approved by parliament. seventy-six of them should have been enforced by now and fully implemented, but only 13 of those 84 lisbon directives have been fully implemented by all member states. the directive on the common regulatory framework for electronic communications should have been fully implemented by 24 july 2003, but belgium, greece and luxembourg have yet to notify the commission of their implementation. the lisbon strategy is in jeopardy through such lax behaviour by member states. however, i am encouraged to see that the commission will open 50 cases against member states that fail to implement the liberalisation of the energy markets. it is about time we saw that happening.
member of the commission. – mr president, the problems faced by malta affect the european union as a whole and call for a global approach to the management of migration and asylum. the external borders of the european union are under permanent pressure from irregular migratory flows, and many people who undertake such journeys require protection. in december the european council identified a series of measures that would boost the eu’s external policies on migration and asylum. the commission is actively seeking to find structural answers to the pressure of heavy migration on the european union and its partner countries. in that respect, the eu-africa ministerial conference held on 10 and 11 july in rabat, reinforced cooperation with the african union and dialogue with the main countries of origin have been important new political initiatives designed to discuss migration issues in detail and, at the same time, to find durable joint solutions. the commission is aware of the particular situation in malta and is taking the following action to improve the situation. the most immediate assistance available to malta at eu level is through the appropriate eu financial programmes. the european refugee fund already provides financial support for member states in bearing the consequences of receiving refugees and displaced persons. support for the development of adequate reception conditions for asylum seekers is a priority of the european refugee fund, and malta benefits from the fund’s assistance in that area. the european refugee fund allocated to malta eur 114 000 in 2004, eur 500 000 in 2005 and eur 600 000 in 2006. in addition, the commission most recently agreed to provide financing of eur 120 000 for a project to improve reception conditions on malta as part of the argo programme. in order to address specific situations, such as those faced by malta in recent months, amendments will also be proposed to the european refugee fund to enable member states to access funds more quickly, and with the minimum administrative burden, to deal with the consequences of sudden arrivals of large numbers of people who may be in need of international protection. specifically, the amendments will aim to support emergency measures to grant appropriate reception conditions for asylum seekers, including basic needs and fair and effective asylum procedures. the commission will also shortly be making a proposal for a council decision to ensure practical cooperation between member states, as set out in the communication on strengthening practical cooperation adopted on 17 february. that proposal will initiate the setting-up of expert teams to assist member states in situations such as those malta is facing with reception conditions and asylum processing. the directive on reception conditions, now applicable, sets a minimum standard for the accommodation of asylum seekers, including those held in detention or with restrictions on their freedom of movement. the commission is monitoring implementation of the directive and particular attention will be paid to how malta is applying it, also in the light of the reports from honourable members of this house following last week’s visit. a report on the application of the directive and possible improvements will be presented to the european parliament in the autumn.
on behalf of the verts/ale group . – mr president, i would like to add my voice to that of mrs roure, who has painted an extremely vivid picture of the situation that parliament’s delegation found in malta. i would also like to add my voice and that of my group to what we have heard from mr zappalà and mrs roure about its implications, not just in malta but in various other places our delegation has visited, including dublin. what seemed like an extremely logical system at the time to the majority of parliament – not to all of us – has real problems that need addressing. we have heard that a number of these problems are due partly to a lack of resources and a lack of expertise. the commission has said that in the framework of the continuation of the asylum policy one of its aims would be to ensure that all member states were operating to the highest possible standards and best practice. so i am pleased to hear about the expert teams, but the commission should not underestimate how many of them will be needed in many parts of the union. i assume that they will be working together with agencies such as unhcr and others that have such expertise. that in itself has budgetary implications in terms of the money that the european union gives unhcr. we are already a large donor to unhcr and if we are going to ask more of it, we will need to take that into account. i also have a question to the commission about the timescale in relation to malta: how fast does it think expert teams can get in there? furthermore, what other resources will be needed to help the maltese in the long term to treat people with the dignity they deserve?
mr president, the revised guidelines will extend the european union’s current gas and electricity transmission networks to the new member states, and i welcome that. we have already seen what happens when the internal market does not work, when it is not fully completed, when supplies are not secured. europe’s main gas supplier, russia, has shown that it is willing and able to turn off its gas supplies to its own political advantage. that leaves us extremely vulnerable, and i am glad to see that at last the european union is taking the whole issue of energy seriously. gas prices around the world have soared, but there is no reason why gas prices in the united kingdom need to be three times those of the netherlands. we have been told in the united kingdom that factories may have to close for the short term. the reason is that the high prices have caused a shortage of gas supply through gas pipelines, which is due to the lack of access to other european union markets. gordon brown has said that the lack of liberalisation of european energy markets has cost the united kingdom gbp 10 billion a year. how can united kingdom companies be competitive in the face of that kind of inequity? european union leaders have recently backed the green paper suggestions on developing gas and electricity interconnections. that is all very well, but we should not avoid a debate on issues such as price fixing, national champions, the resurgent nationalism and member states’ failure to implement european union legislation. on that note, i am encouraged by the announcement that the commission will open 50 new cases tomorrow against european union governments that have failed to implement european union laws by failing to open up the eu’s energy market. that is great news, but may i ask the commissioner why it has taken so long to take this action?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i wish to begin by saying that i very much commend the report as it emerged from committee and i thank mr lipietz for his work. i think it is the general view that the report has been improved by a number of the amendments made and i want to focus quickly on some of them: the emphasis on consumers, with specific proposals adding that we support the idea of private competition and enhancing the role of the consumer liaison officer. we welcome the first year of implementation of the process of reform undertaken by the commission and we are also looking forward to the completion of the article 82 approach – the interpretation of which is currently the subject of consultation. i do not, however, propose to go through all the provisions in the report in detail. i just want to say that, in welcoming, for instance, the sectoral inquiries that have been launched, i draw attention to the aim of the commission and of commissioner kroes to tackle protectionism. in this context, i make no apology for highlighting something of great concern to all of us, which has arisen since this report was drawn up, and that is the vote that has recently taken place in the united states senate to extend the process for dealing with merger cases in a way which amounts to blatant us protectionism. in my view, this amendment of the rules of the committee on foreign investments in the united states could place new and damaging restrictions on foreign investments. those are not my words, but the words of six of the leading financial services institutions in the united states. the commissioner, along with her colleagues, has been working very closely with the us government to deal with issues of regulatory cooperation. i have in front of me a copy of the agreement of last december. item 8 of this states: ‘we – that is the us government and the commission – agree to discuss any significant remaining obstacles to transatlantic investment that the other party identifies, and will consider how to address and reduce such obstacles with a view to promoting closer transatlantic economic integration’. in my view, the proposals in the united states strike a blow against that proposition and i would say that it is so serious that the commissioner should make it clear to her counterparts in the united states that if they proceed in this way then retaliatory measures in europe may be necessary.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, in 2004, the commission issued its decision on microsoft. press reports since then, concerning attempts at compliance, have presented conflicting information. this is not the first time that progress, and even the right of defence prior to hearings or to appeal, seems to have been compromised by the commission denying undertakings access to full information or evidence against them. in effect, undertakings are told: you must do more, but no, you cannot have the evidence and we will not tell you exactly what we want. is such lack of transparency necessary, useful or, taken to its extreme, even in line with the principles of justice that one associates with an advanced democratic community? with some reservations, i welcome the article 82 consultation, which draws on recent experience, but it seems to me that there should also be more consultation with regard to commission procedures and regulation (ec) no 773/2004. this should include comparison with other countries, including the united states, keeping our aim of fostering a competitive business and investment environment. the microsoft case is particularly difficult because it includes interoperability in a highly technical field. it is very important to define the general procedures for interoperability and it is with some regret that we lost those in the cii directive. however, the general procedures for interoperability must not be defined by a hard case. hard cases make bad law, and at present it is even difficult to reconcile the proposals in the consultation document – such as paragraphs 238, 239 and 240 – both with themselves and with the apparent demands on microsoft. there are also further concerns in paragraph 242, concerning trade secrets.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i wonder if parliament and the commission would be so keen to applaud the competition commissioner mrs kroes if they knew that for some 13 years she was a member of ballast nedam’s welfare council, which was set up to protect employee welfare. she would therefore have been aware of the situation that would result when ballast nedam, owned by a dutch construction company, unceremoniously pulled the plug on the uk subsidiary, leaving some 2000 employees with a grossly under-funded pension fund. many in my constituency are now almost destitute. if this is the type of behaviour which results in people being awarded positions in the commission, it is little wonder that europe is doing so fantastically badly in everything it turns its hand to.
mr president, before i start might i ask that someone remove the ‘t’ from my name up on the screen because it is quite unnerving really! i would like to associate myself with the comments made by mr stubb and mrs bowles, but i would like to talk about transparency in these issues. am i the only one here to think that the behaviour in the commission in relation to transparency in competition cases has been quite odd? it is bizarre in a way, because the commission seems to be conducting prosecutions in the media, rather than in hearings or in courts. before christmas we had the strange outbursts from the commission spokesperson in relation to the case concerning the collective selling of uk football premiership tv rights, and this tactic has been repeated in the commission’s ongoing anti-trust investigation into microsoft. i certainly find it a matter of concern that the commission, whilst acting as investigator, prosecutor, judge and jury in competition cases, can make public statements condemning the people it is investigating, or happily allow confidential documents to enter the public domain without any apparent concern or investigation. those of us interested in transparency in the european parliament, and indeed those of us interested in justice in the wider world, are becoming more worried that the commission seems to be willing to ride roughshod over natural justice in its bid for a judicial and public relations result against those it is pursing. madam commissioner, you have made a number of very sensible statements about the future direction of competition policy in the eu, including the statement on 13 december 2005 on improving rules for access to files in merger and anti-trust procedures. can i humbly suggest that you circulate this more widely throughout your department, because in the recent microsoft case and in others before that – in the general electric case, in the tetra laval case and in the tv premiership football case – access to information and files you are keeping has been one of the commission’s weaknesses.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to associate myself wholeheartedly with the statement by my friend mr hammerstein mintz. i was the original rapporteur on regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on public access to documents and i well remember the heated debates, not only within parliament but within the council and within the trialogue, as we set out to win the arguments for what was at that time a groundbreaking regulation. i remember – and it is worth naming some of the old eu-15 – the vehement opposition from france, spain, italy, germany and austria. i am pleased to say that the austrian presidency has now changed its attitude, but i mention this because it shows what a long way we have come. there are different approaches to openness and transparency. we have the wonderful nordic example, and then we have the rather suspicious view taken in other member states, but arguably we have nothing whatsoever to fear from transparency. what is there to fear from opening our decisions to external examination? what does a member state have to fear from explaining to its own parliament why the minister voted as he or she did? i make several recommendations in my report and i call upon the commission to take action. we recognise that regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 was not the end of the game but merely the beginning of a long – arguably cultural – journey to win the argument for openness and transparency within the three institutions. we come from different traditions. that is why i have called for a further review of the regulation. this review was provided for in the original recommendation and there are several areas concerning the regulation’s implementation which now, several years later, could be substantially improved on the basis of the lessons that we have learned from its implementation. we need to look again at the definitions of legislative and non-legislative texts in relation to public access to documents, in order to ensure that all the institutions are working in an open and transparent manner. access to documents is not a gift – it is a right. this is especially important when parliament and the council are working in a legislative capacity. increased interinstitutional cooperation and increased use of the codecision procedure necessitate greater openness by the council in particular. citizens must be able to see what is being agreed in their names by national ministers of national governments so that they and opposition parties can hold them to account. we need to look at the way we define the circumstances in which specific documents can be classified completely, or in part, as confidential. these rules should provide legitimate derogations for specific clearly-defined reasons, but should not be interpreted in a broad sense, which would essentially have the result of denying public access to documents. here is the point on which i shall finish: we won the argument from 1999 until may 2001 when the regulation was adopted. time and time again we have won the argument for a review of the internal rules of the institutions so that the council in particular, when meeting in its legislative capacity, should meet in public and vote in public. the arguments have been won. i know the vice-president is personally committed to the whole notion of openness and transparency. the house is committed, but that is not enough. we have a wonderful window of opportunity on 9 may, europe day. let us make europe day a positive day when we can announce how we will improve the citizens’ right to know what is done in their name. finally, there is a rise of anti-europeanism, not least in the ten new countries that joined us two years ago. often governments which bring a country into the family of the european union suffer as a result; they are not re-elected. we would be a friend of anti-europeanism if we continue to cloak what we do in secrecy. let us take on the anti-europeans. let us promote our institutions. let us celebrate what we do. let us bring forward that review of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, not reluctantly but with enthusiasm.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i shall not detain the house by taking up two valuable minutes but would like to commend to the house the very valuable work of mr hammerstein mintz. he has worked very closely with all of us, and on behalf of the pse group i would like to say that he has the full support of my group. if you would allow me, i failed to thank my good colleague mrs cederschiöld with whom i worked very closely, as with others, on my report, and i thank the house for its patience.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, there is widespread public suspicion of the european decision-making process, and no wonder when ministers meet to make laws behind closed doors. it does not have to be like that. we may never make the european union perfect, but we can at least make it better. the ombudsman has given us great moral authority and has added moral authority to the cross-party campaign that exists in this house, which has commanded an astonishing degree of support. in the case of my own country, it has managed to get pro-european liberals and anti-european united kingdom independence party members united on a platform together in common cause – a unique event. there is a simple principle behind this: laws should be made in the open. ministers should voice their opinions, do so honestly and do so in public, so that citizens can know what they are doing and national parliaments can hold them to account. in signing the constitutional treaty, every head of government committed himself to that principle: the council should meet in public when debating legislative acts. but it does not require treaty change, it just requires an alteration in the council’s rules of procedure: not even one of 25 votes, just 13 votes – a simple majority – can bring about that quite fundamental change and the introduction of that principle. the british presidency came out with some warm words but, at the end of the day, fudged it. (interjection from mr cashman: no!) well, they have not changed the rules of procedure, michael, that is the reality. the austrian presidency now has the opportunity to make the difference. when i put the question to the austrian foreign minister in january, she said: well, we will do what we can, but we are conscious of the delicacy of the matter. why is it delicate? this is about openness and transparency, a fundamental european principle to which every head of government has committed himself. i look forward to the austrian presidency taking the initiative now and putting it to a vote. if the reality is that some member states – france for example – which are behind the scenes trying to block this initiative, then let them be named and shamed and let them answer to their people and to the people of europe. (applause)
mr president, the uk independence party is probably going to be helpful for the first time ever, so it is nice to be able to make my one-minute speech. we have repeatedly condemned the council for its lack of transparency. the remedy is very simple: to change the council’s rules of procedure, as mr hammerstein mintz makes clear in his report. such a move would certainly ensure that in future the british people could see when british ministers renege on what they have pledged before entering such meetings. but that is not enough. the commission will remain as the unelected government of the eu, formulating and dictating laws without any democratic mandate whatsoever. meanwhile, this parliament continues farcically pushing through vote after vote on dubious shows of hands. above all, france and holland’s democratic rejections of the failed eu constitution are viewed with complete contempt by the council, commission and parliament alike. so let us stop lecturing the rest of the world on democracy. throw open the council’s doors, and the commission’s too.
mr president, i wish to begin by making a few comments about mr knapman’s absurd remarks. he said that the commission is an unelected government. of course, everybody knows perfectly well that it is not a government at all. would you like it to be elected? would you like it to be a federal europe with an elected government? come on, which way are you facing, mr knapman? then he uses this ridiculous word: the commission ‘dictates’ laws. it does not dictate anything: it gets its powers from the council and parliament. just tell the truth to the british public – that is all we ask. i am going to abandon mr knapman now. the alde group is totally supportive of these reports and we want more openness. under the british presidency we fought very hard to persuade mr blair to do something. in his usual way, there were big words and promises but very little action in the council of ministers under the british presidency, which was very sad. we want the council to legislate in public. it is perfectly clear and simple: only north korea and beijing behave like the council of ministers in brussels. that must change if we want the public to understand what is happening in europe. secondly, we want legal opinions drafted within the framework of a legislative process to be public, not just to parliamentary committees but also to the public, whom we represent. i have run out of time. however, we will all vote in favour – i hope even mr knapman.
we have already come a long way in opening the council to the light of day, but we must go still further and i therefore welcome the thrust of this report. the council used to deliberate all the time behind closed doors, with no right of public access to documents, and did not even publish the results of its votes, thereby making it impossible for national parliaments to see how the ministers representing their country voted. over the last few years, that has changed significantly, thanks to pressure from the european parliament. now, the council at least publishes the results of votes, grants access to most documents and, thanks to the initiative of the uk presidency last year, deliberates on codecision legislation in public. it is now time to go further and to establish the principle that all the legislative activity of the council should be in public, as it already is for the other chamber of the eu’s legislature, the parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wish to begin by formally thanking mr papastamkos for the approach he has taken to this work. his approach has allowed us to reach right across the chamber in order to produce a very fine piece of work that i believe moves this issue forward for parliament, the commission and the european union as a whole. the wto has taken concrete steps to improve the transparency and democratic participation in its decision-making processes, yet there remain basic flaws, which many of my contributions to this report have sought to address. in hong kong some 450 meetings were organised, yet elected observers were invited to just a handful of them. only two featured the whole wto membership and the majority were exclusive and secret ‘green rooms’. this may make for efficient negotiations, but leaves little opportunity for public oversight of the most vital institution in the global trading system. this culture of closed decision-making is a major setback in the fight to peel back the layers of secrecy, one which parallels our own struggle with the european council. whilst conference leaders congratulated themselves on a transparent and bottom-up process, there are no records or minutes of these meetings. who said what, which countries were invited or present, will never be known by the public. these concerns only increase with the organisation of mini-ministerials and ‘super green rooms’ where the majority of developing countries are either uninvited or unable to attend. increasing membership and consensus-based decision-making, whilst seemingly more democratic, still does not compensate for the influence of industrialised countries compared with that of their developing counterparts. despite over three-quarters of the membership being developing countries, the wto still pits heavyweights against flyweights. lack of access led to the collapse of talks in seattle and cancun when ministers exercised the democratic right and said ‘no’. yet lessons were not learned. the 2005 talks were still structured so that discussions took place in different sites at the same time. this benefits the large eu and us delegations, but leaves some developing countries’ ministers – those unable to split themselves in two – feeling helpless, often knowing less than the omnipresent ngos and corporate fat cats. ngos have forged a greater role for themselves in the wto negotiations on the basis that they represent civil society, but do they? who are their constituents and how can they possibly benefit from narrow, single-issue-driven campaigns? more importantly, how can democracy prevail when non-elected ngos enjoy more privileged access to the key players than democratically elected representatives? the commission may have made conscious efforts to communicate with observers in hong kong, but that is no substitute for the direct input of elected parliamentarians to redress this clear democratic deficit.
mr president, although the current round of multilateral trade negotiations has been going on since 2001, the ambition to conclude them this year looks increasingly unobtainable, certainly if we judge it by the incremental effect of hong kong. hong kong failed to make any substantial headway on the liberalisation of the international trade in services or non-agricultural market access. the eu got nothing that matters in return for its commitment to eliminate export subsidies by 2013. this concession, which comes on top of the pain of cap reform, involves sacrifice for europe’s rural communities. for example, in northern ireland our milk production industry is heavily reliant on export refunds available on whole-milk powder. this concession should be taken off the table in a short period of time if there is no reciprocal response on non-agricultural market access and on services. my second area of concern is the lack of real democratic control over what is negotiated on our behalf by the commission. as one of the terms of eu membership, each state surrenders control of trade policy to brussels so that no member state can independently negotiate trade agreements with any country anywhere in the world. national interests are made totally subservient to what is perceived to be the eu’s overall interest. that involves a massive surrender of national power, compounded in its folly by the lack of real control over what the commission then does in our name. yes, we debate it here, but realistically we can change nothing. there is no effective mechanism to hold commissioner mandelson to account. such democratic deficit is one of the design defects of this eu.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the report on employment policies is over-laden with key phrases, the tone for which is set very early on: legislation, ec monitors and enforcement. then we have got the special importance of younger and older workers; then the eu without barriers – remove them, it says – with clear and measurable priorities; review the guidelines every three years, but parliament must be more active between times; examine member states’ national reform programmes. well, let us do that. the french took a 35-hour working week, not a 48-hour week. but when the working time directive was given flesh last year, many of their workers protested at eu interference. port workers protested earlier this year at more eu interference. french cities are now under siege due to new youth employment policies. who is going to tell mr chirac or mr de villepin that they are wrong, they are not conforming to guidelines? of course you will not. the french will govern themselves, as all of us should do, as grown-up democracies. but most sinister of all in this report is guideline 19: continual review of incentives and disincentives resulting from the tax and benefits systems. already a colleague has spoken this morning of a single fiscal policy. is this the start of eu harmonisation of tax policy across the union – something they said would never happen? ladies and gentlemen, your tax systems are under threat. you have been warned!
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i am astonished that there should be a report on this at all. i thought the eu was all about the free movement of goods, services and labour. what do we find? when the ten new member states joined in 2004, they did not get parity. only three member states of the previous eu of 15 admitted their workers without restriction: ireland, sweden and the united kingdom. this becomes very odd when you consider that these are three of the most reluctant eu member states. ireland rejected the nice treaty the first time and only accepted it later due to impressive gerrymandering in a second referendum. sweden only joined the eu after a bare 1% majority in its referendum. as for the united kingdom, you know all about us. none of you exactly welcomed prime minister blair last december, at the end of what you all considered to have been a rotten united kingdom presidency. you were right. you even threw out his seven-year budget – his precious rescue attempt – with an overwhelming vote on the böge report. so i am now in the very happy position of saying to you: do as the united kingdom, ireland and sweden have done. never mind transitional arrangements; obey your own rules; open your borders; take your share of, say, polish workers – in the united kingdom we have 250 000 of them, and they are not all plumbers.
mr president, i too should like to thank the commissioner and our rapporteur for their work on this issue. as many have said, equality of treatment is a key principle for european citizens, which should apply to employment conditions and access to services within our member states across the union. however, in a debate where we are talking about third-country nationals, it is crucial that we are also very clear – as the rapporteur has been – that we are not talking about rolling back the hard-won rights of those individuals, but extending the rights to which our new member states are entitled. we have heard a number of arguments over the past few months in favour of maintaining transitional periods. many of us here do not find them convincing. we believe that what we are seeing is – as has already been mentioned – evidence of irregular employment and false claims about self-employment. i am willing to bet that in all our countries we have a number of member states’ citizens in unclear situations. when the uk introduced its worker registration scheme for nationals of the a8 countries, it found that 40% of the polish people who registered were already in the uk. i believe that is evidence that people want to work legally. we need to encourage them to do that. we need better information in advance, more effort on inspection and supporting whistle-blowers, and greater clarity about people’s rights, so we do not see the exploitation that mr cottigny has referred to, which threatens to undercut working conditions and exploits individuals. it is much easier to demand equality of treatment when you have clear rights. the uk – as has been said – has opened access, with certain shifts on social security. we have had a range of workers, of all skill levels. we found no discernible statistical evidence of an increase in social benefit claims. the economic impact is seen to be modest, and the numbers started slowing towards the end of last year.
(the speaker spoke irish) the positive experiences of ireland should encourage other countries which introduced transitional arrangements to lift these restrictions. sinn féin and the trade union movement support the decision not to introduce transitional arrangements in ireland. i have signed the written declaration here in parliament calling for such restrictions to be lifted. i reiterate that call here today and i welcome mr őry’s report in that context. however, we must go further than this: we cannot ignore the issue of employment conditions and the exploitation of workers. even in ireland, unscrupulous employers have used the lack of free movement of workers in the eu to introduce discrimination as regards salaries and working conditions based on nationality. we must combat this strongly. mrs oomen-ruijten mentioned the restrictions placed on social security. we must also combat any discrimination in access to social protection for eu citizens who travel to another member state to work or to seek work.
mr president, of the many subjects we will be voting on this week i believe that this report and this subject are the most important. the fact that some 30 speakers from many different parties want to contribute to this debate is confirmation of that. many people have already referred to the basic four freedoms of the eu. amongst those freedoms, the freedom of movement of people is perhaps the most important. half a century ago jean monnet said of one of the key missions of the eu: ‘nous ne coalisons pas les états, nous unissons les hommes’. that was absolutely right then, it is absolutely right now. that is what we should be doing: uniting the people. mention has been made of the fears of some member states. i do not think we should criticise member states for having those fears: it is understandable. however, alongside those fears are facts and the facts should put the fears into context. the fact is that such immigrants who have come from central and eastern europe into the uk, sweden and ireland have not been a drain on the economy, but a benefit to it. the problem has not been the legal immigration into our countries, but the illegal immigration to other countries that has propelled the growth of the black economy. the people who are afraid of the problem should be mindful of the fact that this is a much bigger problem than opening up borders at this stage. i am glad that there are already three further countries – spain, portugal and finland – which have said that they will be removing the barriers. i should like to ask the commissioner to use his great personal authority as well as that of the commission to encourage finland to maintain this issue as a very high point on its agenda in its forthcoming presidency and to report back at the end of its presidency on the progress it has made so that it can inspire others to follow its example. meanwhile, i hope that we will all inspire others with a strong vote later this week. i hope we can say to new member states ‘there are no second-class citizens in europe’ and to old member states ‘it is time to open your borders and open your minds’.
mr president, i congratulate mr őry on producing an excellent report. i should like to make three brief points, the first of which concerns paragraph 1. as it came out of committee, it now calls on member states to abolish the transitional measures in force. for many that has become the main focus of the report. i know that the rapporteur has felt pressured to table a compromise saying that member states should consider abolishing those measures and specifically mentioning the three member states that did not introduce them in the first place. many in my group support the text as it now stands, feeling that we should be against any continuation of transitional measures. however, in saying that, they are reading it alongside paragraph 14, which says that member states that continue to use such measures should take all steps to ensure that they do not continue beyond 2009. my second point concerns equal treatment. the rapporteur and others here today have made the point forcefully that it is not just a question of making sure that a8 workers have the right to freedom of movement of labour, we have to ensure inspection and enforcement regimes grant them full equal treatment and prevent exploitation in the 15. there have been serious breaches in both the uk and the republic of ireland. my final point relates to directive 2003/109/ec, referred to by the commissioner. it grants full access to the member states’ labour markets for long-term resident third-country nationals. parliament’s legal service has said this poses no danger of creating a situation where third-country nationals have greater access than a8 citizens. the legal service points out that article 11 of the directive says that member states ‘may’ restrict equal treatment for third-country nationals in certain cases. saying that member states ‘may’ is not the same as saying they ‘must’ or that they ‘will’. the only way to guarantee equal treatment is to end transitional measures.
mr president, on a point of order, last week at the conference of presidents, the dates for the 2007 calendar were issued. the deadline for the tabling of amendments was yesterday evening at 19.00. in this house we have very strict rules that we must have original signatures for amendments to be tabled, but a whole bunch of my colleagues were held up in transit yesterday, did not arrive until after 19.00 and were therefore unable to sign amendments that had been circulated by the campaign for parliamentary reform, amongst others. i know that you will not be able to change the rule concerned at this particular point in time, but could you please look at it, because in just about every report we have a decent period of time to table amendments, but on the calendar of our sittings we have no time at all. (applause)
in writing. this report is a result of the european parliament ombudsman's inquiry into the openness of the council. the european parliament ombudsman considers that the meetings of the council, when it acts in its legislative capacity, are not open to the public and the council's refusal to decide to open up these meetings is an instance of maladministration. this timely report follows on from the british presidency's call for greater transparency. moreover, public opinion polls and statements by ngos, civil society and the academic world underscore citizens' wishes for increased accountability of their governments regarding eu issues. i agree it is unacceptable that an important lawmaking body of the eu still meets behind closed doors when acting as a legislator, especially at a time when the eu sees itself as a promoter of democratisation and accountability. i am therefore in favour of public meetings of the council to be broadcast and webcast, as well as for official transcripts of the legislative meetings to be issued. the requested amendments to the council should be regarded as a long overdue adaptation of the council to the european reality and institutional equality in lawmaking.
in writing. i heartily congratulate my group colleague, mr hammerstein mintz, on this crucial report, as it cuts to the heart of so many of the problems the eu faces today. in scotland where i come from, as in so many countries the biggest confusion about the eu is the lack of transparency and the feeling that the eu is somehow not accountable; and to my mind all of this stems from the council of ministers meeting behind closed doors, often in the dead of night. for an organisation that talks so much about openness, we see little of it in practice outside of this house, and opening the doors of the council would go so far towards informing the people of europe about what is being done in their name. this report is only the start of that process and we must continue to press this crucial issue.
in writing. since ratification of the amsterdam treaty and entry into force of article 255 of the treaty establishing the european community (tec), transparency has become a fundamental principle of the european union, the primary aim of which is to strengthen the democratic nature of the european institutions. this report calls on the commission to create a legislative proposal on the right of access to european parliament, council and commission documents. through this proposal, the report seeks to adhere to the principle of subsidiarity, the fundamental rights of citizens, the case-law of the european court of human rights, particularly on article 8, and articles 7 and 8 of the charter of fundamental rights. i am fully supportive of this report as i believe the eu not only has an obligation to be as open and transparent as possible to its citizens; it also has to take a leading role in setting an example to governments and parliaments of member states as well as to those of accession and candidate countries.
in writing. i congratulate mr cashman on this report and was pleased to support it today. the problems many members have had over access to documents have been an issue all across the house and it is only right that we should be starting to address it here. i only hope we will see the aims of this report backed up by action.
in writing. this report on the outcome of the hong kong wto meeting comes at a crucial time, as the negotiations currently hang in the balance. we voted today to send a strong political signal to the negotiating parties, including the eu, to honour commitments to a successful conclusion of this round geared towards the poorest countries, as agreed at doha. as labour's spokesperson on international trade, i submitted a number of amendments to this report at its committee stage. then, as now, i called for the exclusion of key public services (including water) from liberalisation drives. on the paragraph relating to nama, i called for flexibility in the number and range of coefficients used in formulating tariff cuts, so as to leave adequate policy space for developing countries to choose the rate at which they liberalise. i voted for a similar amendment today. on agriculture, whilst i agree with the commission's assessment that negotiations should be pursued in parallel with those of other sectors, i could not vote in favour of calls by some colleagues for the current eu offer to be made conditional and even retractable. i believe the current offer should at least be maintained.
in writing. this report has been amended so much that it was not possible for me to support it, even though i agree with some of the points. the aims of the 'make poverty history' campaign and the march in edinburgh last summer have so comprehensively not been met that it is a sorely missed opportunity. we could have sent a louder, clearer message today to our governments and to the european commission. instead we have virtually endorsed the status quo which i do not want to see continue.
in writing. i have supported this report in its intention to alleviate the costs for many of the poorest countries for healthcare and drugs. whilst i support the intention of amendment 3 in alleviating these costs, the amendment is inappropriate as it provides for a blanket limit to all patient protection for products related to this field which could distort markets at a global level and potentially harm further development.
in writing. whilst we support the intention of amendment 3 to alleviate the costs of healthcare and drugs for many of the poorest countries, this amendment is inappropriate as it provides for a blanket limit to all patent protections for products related to this field, which could distort markets at a global level and, potentially, harm further development. these issues are best dealt with at the level of the un and who. the eplp maintains its position on the issue of corporate taxation, which is not to support a recalculation of the corporate tax base. whilst we seek greater coordination of tax authorities in trying to assist smes involved in cross-border trade, we acknowledge that this issue remains the competence of the eu member states.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank commissioner mccreevy for fully living up to the pledge that he gave to us. he said that if we produced a balanced proposal with a strong majority from this parliament, then the commission would take that up and produce it as an amended text. and he has largely done that, as many colleagues have said. i am fully in support of that. it was a compromise. i make no bones about the fact that i would have liked to have seen a more liberal directive, but the fact remains that what is on the table is a major step forward in the internal market. commissioner mccreevy, the point i want to make to you is will you please from now on become the strongest advocate of this directive. we want you to go out there and sell the package. you did not say in your speech that this directive contains a hundred separate measures directed at member states to remove barriers to service businesses, to reduce bureaucracy, to simplify administration and to give more information. my colleague from poland seems to have ignored that entirely in what he said just now. we also have as a central clause freedom to provide services, proposed by this side of the house. i am absolutely convinced, and i am sure you will confirm it, that the formulation fully respects – and i use the word from the directive – the rules under which service providers operate in their own member state. that is a major step forward, but we need you to go out there and advocate it in a strong and positive way. please take that as the first message, because we need to win the hearts and minds of the people out there, who think that we produced a diluted and weak piece of legislation. if you read it, it certainly is not. in conclusion, i would like to thank commissioner špidla very much, because we asked for a statement on the posting of workers directive as part of the compromise for removing articles 24 and 25 of the proposal, and he has given us that. i think it could go further, but i am delighted that the two are linked together, which was a key demand from this side of the house. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, as chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection i very much welcome this joint debate on better regulation and the opportunity to discuss with the council and the commission how we can improve the regulatory experience for consumers, citizens and businesses that are at the sharp end of making sense of implementing eu laws. the confidence and trust of citizens, consumers and business in the eu itself is linked to their experience and perception of eu laws and the impact they have on their daily lives. i want to focus on improving better regulation for the internal market and ensuring that we achieve a sense of purpose in our law-making for consumers in the internal market. the internal market accounts for almost one third of the community acquis. good-quality, effective and simple legislation in the internal market should open up opportunities for cross-border trade and give consumers increased choice, while protecting environmental, social and consumer rights. at the same time, getting legislation right in the internal market is critical to achieving the lisbon goals of jobs, growth and competitiveness. i believe that the internal market will benefit most from a joint and coordinated approach by all three institutions to improving the entire regulatory cycle. that means that we also need to think of the consequences of the midnight deals and compromises that we make, and consider whether they are going to confuse or clarify laws for end users. that starts, in my view, with good, clear drafting of laws, high-quality impact assessments and effective, comprehensive and transparent stakeholder consultation. the member states too must take their responsibilities seriously and ensure good and correct implementation of internal market laws. they must resist the temptation often to gold-plate or add on national requirements. although transposition rates are improving, as shown in the internal market scoreboards, there is still room for much improvement. that is why we are asking for a fast-track infringement procedure for test cases in the internal market. we need to learn from the failures and mistakes of eu laws. that is why we would like to see both ex ante and, in particular, ex post impact assessments or evaluations of where we went wrong. has this legislation achieved its objective or, on the contrary, has it led to distortion and fragmentation of the internal market? some believe that the impact assessments should be handed over to an external body. i do not share that approach, as i believe that the internal market laws should be the responsibility of commission officials as part of the discipline of effective policy-making. however, the internal market committee insists that all legislative proposals be accompanied by a quality impact assessment, a summary and a better regulation checklist on internal market proposals. of course alternative regulation is a subject of much scepticism. while the interinstitutional agreement provides for this non-legislative option, we insist with respect to internal market laws that parliament is both informed of and consulted on such alternative approaches. they are justified by impact assessments. equally, we must have redress for the consumer and sanctions if these alternative regulations fail to deliver benefits for the consumer in the internal market. i want to stress the work of the internal market committee as an active partner in the better regulation process. i know that commissioners often say that parliament does not take its role seriously. we were the first committee to commission our own impact assessment, under mr whitehead’s chairmanship, for amendments on the toubon report on nominal quantities for pre-packed products. on the pyrotechnics proposal we are conducting an impact assessment on amendments proposed by our rapporteur. we will look at a cost/benefit analysis of his amendments to that proposal. we are conducting a hearing on the impact of public procurement laws on the internal market. eu public procurement accounts for 16% of eu gdp, yet the 1992 package of laws, as demonstrated in a number of ecj cases, has not achieved the desired opening of the market. let us be clear. it is the consumer, the citizen and businesses that pay the price when laws are not effective. bad drafting leads to legal uncertainty, poor or confused transposition and at the end of the line is a confused businessman or consumer who loses confidence in the internal market. the ecj, after years of deliberation, becomes the arbiter of better legislation. that is not the right way forward. finally, i want to quote the cases of solvit, which i believe is an excellent initiative of the commission. a qualified doctor tried for a number of years to register as a doctor in spain. he spent a large sum of money on legal fees, had lost confidence in the internal market, yet the solvit system intervened and helped him within ten weeks to get registration in spain as a doctor. that doctor said: ‘solvit has restored my confidence in the internal market’. so, the reality is that good laws that are well drafted, easy to implement, easy to enforce and police, are the key to restoring confidence in the internal market. i hope that today’s debate is the beginning of a process of close cooperation, sharing best practice between the institutions in a close partnership of equals, to build and restore that confidence that the doctor i mentioned was asking us to achieve for him as a consumer in the internal market. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on petitions. – madam president, directives and regulations all make up the law that is perhaps the main thing that our citizens see or feel as a result of our activities. law is, as it were, our main product. but lawmaking, especially at a european level, is a process – a lengthy process – not an end point. this continuum is well represented by the various reports that we are discussing today. there are the doorn and the frassoni reports, one focusing on lawmaking and subsidiarity, the other on monitoring the application of the law. but our citizens should be at the beginning, the end and at the heart of this process, helping us set the agenda, lobbying and informing us as we make decisions and overseeing how the results work. the doorn report has a special focus on the use of impact assessments. this is really welcome. but we have to take care. impact assessment cannot displace political decision making. of course, we need full and independent information from all sides on all aspects, not just the effects on business. then we as co-legislators can decide, but it must be our decision, not that of experts, nor of technocrats, stakeholders or lobbyists. give us all the information in a balanced manner, then, in full transparency, we can make a political decision for which we are accountable. no number of impact assessments or re-impact assessments should replace democracy. let me turn to one of the main preoccupations of the committee on petitions. it is perhaps the committee in this house that is most in touch with our citizens. they come to us when the law is not working. the job of the petitions committee is to help citizens highlight the problems with implementation and monitoring of eu law. this work should be given a much higher profile and recognition, especially in the commission’s annual report. for the umpteenth time, the petitions committee has emphasised the need for the commission’s infringement proceedings to be more robust and we welcome, therefore, the proposals made by mrs frassoni in this respect. i was also pleased to hear the comments on implementation made by president barroso. we have also underlined the place of our citizens in the lawmaking process. many of us would like to see them have a role in initiating law, as foreseen by the european citizens’ initiative in the draft constitutional treaty; but sadly, probably, this is a matter for another day. but we could at least ensure that our citizens understand what we are doing in their name. there seems to be broad support for the proposition that each directive and regulation should be prefaced by a non-legally binding citizens’ summary. in short, let us have legislation that is accessible in its form, the way we make it and the way we enforce it.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i particularly want to welcome all the reports. as coordinator of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i particularly would like to commend mrs mccarthy on the excellent work she has done, as well as our committee, which held a hearing on this topic. one of the lessons we must learn from this exercise – and i say this to the select group of colleagues around here – is that better regulation is a shared task for every single member of this parliament, whatever committee they belong to. it is good that we are broadening out the discussion, but too few people are engaged. the major point i wish to make tonight, linked to the amendments i made to mrs mccarthy’s report, which were accepted by the committee, is that better regulation is a process. i agree with much of what mrs wallis says. the problem is that the process is difficult, complex and very few people understand it. we have to try to explain and simplify it, but we need to explain it to our own constituencies as well as to people outside. how many people in this parliament can really say that they understand the procedures that have now been set up within the commission to improve the quality of legislation? how many of you know what your responsibilities are under the famous interinstitutional agreement, which was signed in this very chamber two years ago by our then president, pat cox? i suspect that if we had a questionnaire about it, most of you would have no idea what those obligations are. surely the first thing, colleagues, is that we should be putting our own house in order; that each of us should have that simplified checklist. we should say, when the commission sends us a proposal – and this again is a recommendation – that with each proposal there should be just a short checklist about the procedures that the commission has already gone through and the ones that it will go through in future. if there are documents and impact assessments, they should be clearly attached to that. that is the sort of practical definition and clarification of the process that we need. if we do not do that, citizens outside will lose belief in the process. the better legislation process is vital for the future of the whole way we do business here.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i have been campaigning for many years for better lawmaking, particularly in my committee, the committee on employment and social affairs. we need better and more comprehensive impact assessment and we need to look at whether legislation is really needed at eu level, or best left up to member states in many instances. if it is needed, we need to have a proper cost-benefit analysis of businesses, including small businesses, and the workforce alike. i would like to see the impact assessments being truly independent, better than what we have quite often at the moment: a justification for the need for legislation. once legislation has been passed, it has to be implemented equally, as we have all been saying, across all member states. if it is not being implemented, is it because it is unworkable? if it is unworkable, then, as the commission has said, repeal it. finally, we need to make sure the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking is complied with. in a reply just the other day, the commission admitted that little progress had been made.
madam president, i congratulate all our rapporteurs in undertaking this gargantuan effort today and shall focus briefly on two points: council transparency and mr doorn’s report on subsidiarity. as we heard yesterday, a lack of council transparency remains the elephant in the room; it remains the root cause of so much discontent with eu lawmaking in general. surely the council can take more steps towards meaningfully meeting in public. right now only havana and pyong yang operate in such an opaque fashion. we should be doing better than that in the 21st century. more substantively, turning to subsidiarity and especially paragraphs 25-29 of mr doorn’s report, i give my own country, scotland, as an example of the missed opportunity that subsidiarity currently represents. scotland is currently part of a member state not known for its enthusiastic eu engagement and yet our parliament in edinburgh would represent an enthusiastic partner in better eu lawmaking. our parliament has total responsibility for health, the environment, justice, education, fishing, agriculture and many more areas, yet the eu view of subsidiarity too often stops at the member state when, in fact, the more relevant partner may well be much more local. i would associate myself with all of mr doorn’s recommendations on impact assessments, although i echo mrs wallis’ comments on political engagement and stress that such engagement must be as local as possible. then perhaps we will see subsidiarity starting to work for the betterment of eu legislation in the future.
member of the commission. the commission recognises the importance of raising awareness on the new, more comprehensive eu regime against money laundering and terrorist financing. that is why the commission has already undertaken a number of information initiatives. in that context i would like to mention: first, the commission's participation in outreach efforts vis-à-vis european professional organisations initiated by the oecd financial action task force on money laundering and terrorist financing; secondly, the ongoing consultation on the impact of the second anti-money laundering directive on the legal profession, which will lead to the publication of a report this summer, probably in july; thirdly, an extensive consultation of all stakeholders in the context of the preparation of possible implementing measures under the third anti-money laundering directive; fourthly, participation in conferences organised by member states as part of their responsibilities for implementing eu money laundering directives. in view of those ongoing initiatives, the commission currently is not planning to conduct a further eu-wide information campaign. however, the commission continues to monitor closely the implementation of the directive, and it would not rule out further actions if there are shown to be problems in particular sectors and eu action would have added value.
author. – commissioner, that all sounds very good, but my eye was caught by something in the law society of england and wales’s new money laundering newsletter. it referred to an extensive industry that has developed around services aiming to help lawyers with their compliance duties. it struck me that, as the third money laundering directive brought in the notion of proportionate checks of risk sensitivity, we need to make sure that the compliance falls where the really serious risks are. often constituents come to me because as individuals they have difficulties opening bank accounts. i hope that you will convey that message. it truly has to be risk-sensitive compliance.
member of the commission. in this particular directive the point about risk sensitivity is well made. there are different categories of risk and the authorities should draw up their procedures on the basis of those risk assessments. that is clearly specified in the third directive, and the point is well taken by the mep. i would not like to see a whole industry developing around people charging exorbitant fees for what should be a relatively reasonable procedure. the levels of risk should be assessed. there is very little to be done for those at a low level of risk, and there are higher categories. that is clearly set out in the directive. i thank the honourable member for raising this question, because it gives me an opportunity to emphasise the point that she made in her supplementary question.
commissioner, bearing in mind that the ira is believed after its northern bank robbery to have exploited money-laundering opportunities in bulgaria, what specific steps are being taken to ensure that the authorities and organisations there, and indeed in romania, are ready and able to implement the legislative requirements on money laundering and terrorist financing?
author. – that was a very lengthy response, but with respect it was not really an answer because i appreciate what the powers are. my question is whether you really needed any more powers. specifically you said that the pre-litigation phase could be speeded up. i should like a specific answer please: as regards the post-litigation phase, would you not agree that sometimes that can take several years and then again several years before a penalty is applied? would it not be handy to have powers to cut that short and make it even sharper?
member of the commission. yes, there are two aspects to it: one concerns the action that can be taken in the short term to try to soften the impact of the temporary imposition of the ban on deep sea gillnets. we are discussing this with the north-western waters rac, and a meeting is scheduled for 7 april when, hopefully, we will be able to discuss this matter with the north-western waters rac. immediately afterwards, we will hopefully be able to take certain decisions on introducing the possibility of limited fisheries for hake and perhaps look at the possibility with regard to monkfish, establishing a system of supervision on board vessels. we are also looking into establishing permanent measures which would replace the driftnet ban to cover all community waters. later in the year, we could then come up with a proposal to withdraw the driftnet ban and replace it with permanent measures, satisfying ourselves that there is no longer any risk of irreparable damage to the stock of deepwater sharks as a result of fishermen leaving nets in the sea for extensive periods, fishing on their own account and causing significant damage to the habitat.
the commissioner probably finds himself between scylla and charybdis in this argument, but i am sure that he will bear in mind the great damage that drift nets and gill nets have done in the past to, for example, the wild salmon in the north atlantic, and that he will be robust in protecting the fisheries from that method of fishing.
draftswoman of the opinion of the committee on budgets. – mr president, first let me thank the rapporteur for his report. this is a key programme, be it citizens for europe, or europe of citizens. the last time we asked this question in 1992, half the eu citizens surveyed said that they never felt european. i think that figure has probably decreased over time, but not as dramatically as we would like. but whether we feel it or not, we are european citizens and we share the rights and privileges citizenship brings. this programme should make people aware and proud of their eu citizenship. however, it is important to remember that we already have invested in similar programmes aimed at engaging with citizens. the problem has been that the commission's strategy in this area has been piecemeal and confused. therefore, what i would like to ask the commission is: can it guarantee that this is not going to be just one more programme? will it really make a difference? will it be linking with other actions in a coherent, overarching strategy? i really hope so, but i would like the commission to explain how. speaking, as i am, on behalf of the committee on budgets, i am concerned that the ambitions are not backed by resources. therefore, once again we are raising expectations only to dash them. i can understand all the members wanting to address their preferred issues within the scope of this programme, but the funding for it, i believe, is far from adequate and we need to look very closely at some of the amendments that have been put forward. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for paying special attention to organised civil society at local level, including the disabled. however, i regret that we have not pushed enough for the commission to do more to reach the most disadvantaged communities. finally, i wish this programme every success and hope that the monitoring and evaluation issues that the committee on budgets has put forward are taken up.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i should like to conduct a little experiment. i ask people in the chamber to remove their headphones for three seconds. one, two, three. what did you hear? absolutely nothing! that is the sound of silence that heralds the clamour for this piece of legislation. are there demands to do something? no! will it address the fundamental concerns of 450 million people struggling to earn a living or find solutions to everyday problems? no, again. it is well known that something that you give but which cannot be disposed of has little value to the receivers since they have made no effort to get it. how cheap then is european citizenship, which is forced on people, is unwanted and cannot be refused or renounced. so here we go again! another huge propaganda project to distort and hide the truth. the hope and belief seems to be that this will cure the scepticism that is growing across the continent. low euro-election turnouts, vocal opposition to enlargement and the rejected constitution are all, apparently, to be remedied by throwing eur 235 million at projects to persuade the people that the eu is actually doing something good for them. this is pay-as-you-go citizenship. the price rises as your rights go. the eu will not listen to the people it is meant to represent. instead it attempts to bribe its way to a position of favour. yet european integration is exactly what the people are increasingly opposed to. why? because each and every country is slowly waking up to the reality that one size does not suit all in the eurozone, and neither now will one citizenship. i have said before that, if the eu is the answer, it must have been a stupid question. that millions of citizens in countries across the world agree with me is really quite comforting.
mr president, citizenship and statehood go together; hence the desire of the promoters of the european project to produce european citizenship. true citizenship, however, does not need money thrown at it to make it real or desirable. loyalty to it is born of the heart, not of the pocket. surely we could find better uses for the eur 230 million or even eur 290 million, as some want, than promoting this contrived notion of european citizenship. at the end of all this wasted expenditure, the french will still want to be french and the british will still want to be british, and no one but the political euro-elite will prize citizenship of europe above that of their own country. why then do we have to try so hard to defy the natural order and create a synthetic substitute, when in our member states we can all enjoy the real thing? gm citizenship may be for some; it is not for me.
mr president, an essential element of effective and engaged citizenship is an understanding of a society’s shared and common heritage. a heritage denied, ignored or distorted leaves a society divorced from reality, its true nature and character still oppressed, still deprived of its birthright. accordingly, the rapporteur’s amendment 29 is of enormous importance to those hundreds of thousands of central and eastern europeans whose families or family members were executed, were deported or died in stalin’s gulags, for no reason other than that their survival was judged to be a threat to the illegal occupation of their countries, agreed by hitler and stalin under the notorious molotov-ribbentrop pact. in this connection, there has been discussion of other amendments in the name of mr sifunakis: amendments 62 and 63, which refer to conflicts in spain, portugal and greece. it seems to me that these are important issues, but they should be considered in another context. i hope that the whole of parliament will support amendment 29, so that we do not dilute the message that hitler and stalin were joint criminals who vented their anger on the peoples of europe. the nkvd, the soviet union’s people’s commissariat of internal affairs, under order no 001223, entitled ‘on the operative accounting of anti-soviet and socially alien elements’, issued on 11 october 1939, was the prelude to the mass deportations ordered by merkulov, the ussr’s people’s commissar for state security, and put into effect by his deputy, serov. on the night of 13 and 14 june 1941, 34 260 people were deported from lithuania, 15 081 from latvia and 10 205 from estonia. this was just the most notorious of the many deportations which continued until 1951. it is significant that the eu will now support the commemoration of the victims of both those dictatorships. without truth, there can be no reconciliation. the russian people today are no more responsible for stalin’s crimes than are the german people for hitler’s. but european citizenship and good neighbourliness can only be based on respectful ... (the president cut off the speaker)(applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank mrs doyle for her excellent collaboration and for being so willing to try to find compromises on which we could all agree. but having said that, while my group can live with the directive on mobile air-conditioning – although in our view it is still too weak – we cannot accept the results of the conciliation on the regulation on f-gases, in spite of mrs doyle's good offices to try to get a better deal, but which ultimately failed. the european institutions like to pride themselves on their international leadership in terms of policy on climate change, the greatest threat we face, and yet this regulation is a tragedy of missed opportunity and sets back the potential of our climate policy by decades. we are talking about gases that have enormous global warming potential. they include sulphur hexafluoride, which is over 23 000 times more powerful as a greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide and yet will still be permitted in some applications. yet what we have in front of us is a regulation with a legal base that casts doubt on the ongoing right of austria and denmark to keep their stricter national laws beyond six years and that will actively work against the ability of other member states to adopt them. we have a regulation that fails to recognise the fact that alternatives already exist for most f-gas applications, that fails to promote substitution and that will set back the introduction of safe and innovative alternatives for years, not just in the european union but in the developing world as well, where f-gas emissions are predicted to grow enormously over the next few decades. we have a regulation that represents a shameful capitulation to the f-gas industry. so i repeat again the question that others have raised: would the commission clarify once and for all whether it will drop the proceedings against austria and denmark? at the very beginning of february my colleagues and i wrote to commissioner dimas to ask this question. we have still not received a response. this is unacceptable and the proceedings should be dropped immediately.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on behalf of liberals and democrats i too would like to thank mr böge and his team, messrs mulder, walter and lewandowski, as well as the austrian presidency, for the agreement that they have reached. i hope this agreement will commend itself for approval to my group, to the house and to the council and commission. i would not pretend that my group is satisfied with the outcome. we feel that we are not providing enough money for the research and development that our union needs for the galileo programme, for the trans-european networks, for lifelong learning: all of the things we should be financing properly to convince our citizens of the added value of the union. we know that it is fashionable in the national capitals of some of our member states to pour cold water on common endeavour. it started with the letter to mr prodi from six heads of state and government two years ago, envisaging reducing the budget to 1% of gni – a deeply corrosive policy. but if the centripetal force for our union is no longer coming from visionary leadership within, it will certainly come from developments beyond our borders. i hope that our member states will use the review of eu financing that they have agreed on to look again at providing our union with the resources it needs. our group hopes, too, that we can make progress – as suggested by the council – towards a proper statement of assurance, so that the auditors can finally sign off the accounts for the union. that is, it seems to us, a minimum for regaining public confidence. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i feel, having listened to what has been said this morning, that the european parliament is once again indulging in its favourite sport and pastime, that of navel gazing. all we are really discussing are the minutiae of interinstitutional agreements – or perhaps at this stage one should say ‘disagreements’ – but are we addressing the real issues of the european union budget? is anybody prepared to really talk about the fact that the auditors have refused to sign off the accounts for 11 years in a row? does anybody here want to have a bet with me that it will not be 12 years in a row, or perhaps 13 or 14? the whole thing is fatally flawed, is it not? we have a budget system that is overly complicated, but my question is: do we need a budget at all? (laughter)well, mr blair, having collapsed in the negotiations, having been totally outwitted, outclassed and outplayed by president chirac, has signed a really rather bad deal for the british taxpayer. and now a majority of british people are asking: ‘why are we paying gbp 39 million a day into an organisation which cannot sign off its own accounts’? why should british taxpayers be helping to build a new underground system in warsaw and new sewers in budapest? why are we paying all this money to a group of countries that sell us far more than we sell them? surely, to subsidise your economic competitors is the economics of the madhouse! nobody sensible would indulge in it. so it will not be very long, mr president, before the british are not going to be paying any money into the european union. i know that all of you have benefited for the last 30 years, but i apologise in advance. there will be no british cheque coming to any of you within a few years, but we have enjoyed ourselves whilst we have been here. (mixed reactions)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the cynics in liberal democrat ranks would say of last month’s council that it could have been worse. congratulations to the austrians for avoiding a row. the presidency conclusions were, as so often, pledges of economic reform in directly inverse proportion to acts of economic reform. but the optimists among our number note that the tone of these presidency conclusions is different. as mark twain said of wagner’s music: ‘it’s not as bad as it sounds.’ even socialist prime ministers have accepted that the game is up, that the market has to come in to give us growth and prosperity. all council members accepted that environment policy can make an important contribution to jobs and growth. we are making progress and, combined with the prospect of an interinstitutional agreement on the financial perspectives and the economic growth that we now foresee, there is hope again for our union. i welcome in particular the commission’s decision this week to mount legal challenges to those flouting the rules of liberalisation, because that is the kind of action that we need from the commission to make progress. the european union is remarkably resilient. progress may not be made in one area, but it springs up somewhere else: an energy policy for europe, a good step forward; or more countries wanting to join the eurozone. the drive for common endeavour may come now from the challenges from outwith, rather than conviction from within. but i hope that the austrian presidency and the finnish presidency that follows it can take this new spirit forward and help us to reconstruct a constitutional basis on which to build our union for the future. my group believes it is time to drop the focus of the spring council on economic reform. you need three councils a year. you need to discuss other issues – important issues such as belarus. you could have discussed, as proposed by some member states, the issue of guantánamo bay, where eu residents are still kept. an unwillingness to upset the americans prevented you from doing so. let us see a bit more european spirit coming out of these councils. let us start to rebuild the union with the active involvement of member states. too often in recent years we have seen in rome, in paris, in london and even in berlin attempts to unpick the community method, to pull europe apart at the seams – national capitals that risk enhancing global anarchy in the name of preserving national sovereignty. i was very surprised to see you, mr schüssel and mr poettering, and all of the glitterati of the european people’s party in rome, supporting the re-election campaign of a prime minister who has undermined europe’s values at every turn... (applause) frustrating progress in judicial cooperation, even judicial proceedings; overstepping the borders of propriety, of a free and independent media, or even of electoral systems; using the presidency of the eu to embrace vladimir putin, ignoring russia’s actions in chechnya. the european people’s party claims to be pro-european. that is hardly the action of a pro-european party. (objection)if the italians vote wisely on sunday there will be a pro-european government in rome and perhaps it can work together with the new government in berlin to re-establish the equilibrium that we need in our union and start to put europe back on an even keel. (applause)
mr president, i begin by welcoming the firm stand of the council on the situation in belarus and the sanctions that have been agreed. on the lisbon agenda, i welcome many of the presidency conclusions but, sadly, europe has yet to find an answer to its underlying economic malaise. governments find it easy to sign declarations of intent but harder to put into practice what they profess. on the services directive, i admit i am unhappy with the council compromise. i have always urged the british government and the council to go further in a liberalising direction, but my words have fallen on deaf ears. mr blair talks the talk; he says he is leading the way and that the rest of europe is falling into line, but i think he deludes himself – and not for the first time. a truly liberalising services directive would be the most fundamental sign of europe reforming, which it desperately needs to do now and not at some vague date in the future. the most disappointing aspect of the council was, however, the fundamental failure of leaders to speak forcefully on the rising tide of protectionism. we expected to hear something – at least a memorandum – from mr berlusconi, as he seems to have spoken on every other subject recently, and from mr blair. but what happened? the council meeting could have made clear its determination to fight the protectionist threat to europe’s prosperity and the functioning of the single market. it was the perfect time to seize the high ground and it failed to do so. again, it is left to president barroso to make the case. i congratulate him on his continuing determination on this issue. last week in florence he said that national governments were giving in to populist temptations. i agree. it is time to consider what action should be taken against those who seek to attack the basic rules of the single market. i also congratulate mr barroso on the action he took yesterday to clamp down on energy giants in europe, which are using their industrial muscle to hinder competition and distort the market. this legal action against those who are trying to restrict an open european energy market will be welcomed by all those of us who believe in free markets and the completion of the single market.
i should like to welcome a delegation of father christmases to the public gallery. it is slightly out of season – i hope you are going to behave yourselves! at least you are wearing the right colours for this morning – red and white, just like me.
i have been informed that the father christmases are from denmark. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 142)
mr president, this week we have debated the issue of better regulation. one of the biggest obstacles to better regulation is our calendar of meetings. we have 12 weeks a year of plenary sittings here in strasbourg. frequently there is insufficient business for those plenaries, so we pad out the agenda. as a result of that, the committee meetings are constantly under pressure and those codecision committees are now unable to legislate effectively. we need to have a debate about how we organise our work. this calendar has been introduced without any such debate. we would like to postpone the vote on this calendar to the next plenary session, so that those of us who have tabled this motion can debate our working methods, that is to say, how we can improve regulation in the european parliament and how we can better use the eur 300 million it costs us to be here for the pursuit of better regulation. this is a huge use of taxpayers’ money which undermines the work of this parliament. (applause)
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues have long supported attempts to ensure that the european parliament has only one official seat, and that it should be brussels. the cost to the taxpayer of the strasbourg seat is estimated at around £150 million per annum. this is a gross waste of public funds. british taxpayers deserve to have value for money. we want to carry out our work on behalf of our constituents where it is most effective and cost efficient, namely in brussels. the cost of having to maintain parliamentary operations in both strasbourg and brussels has now become indefensible, and we will continue to campaign to have parliament sit only in brussels in future.
in writing. ukip has voted against amendments 62 and 63 on the "citizens for europe programme" because they believe that the proposed projects, for which they have every sympathy, should be organised and funded at national level.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues agree that there is widespread alienation towards european institutions on the part of the citizens of the eu. this was demonstrated by the 'no' votes in the french and dutch referendums on the eu constitution. it is also demonstrated by the low voter turnout at the 2004 european elections. we believe that the european institutions need to become more transparent and accountable to the electorate. they must also become more efficient and cost-effective. parliament and the other institutions need to operate in a way that gains trust and respect. this report approaches those problems in fundamentally the wrong way. it will further undermine confidence in the eu with its call for a budget of nearly eur 300 million of taxpayers' money to be spent on arbitrary projects that seek to impose an artificial european identity. we wish to make clear that british conservatives are strongly in favour of solemn acts of remembrance and commemoration of the evils that nazism and stalinism inflicted on millions of people in central and eastern europe and the former soviet union. however, we believe that such acts are matters for individual member states and their peoples.
in writing. from 1 may 2004, three ‘old’ member states (ireland, the uk and sweden) opened up their labour markets without restrictions to nationals of the ‘new’ member states. the other member states of the eu-15 have opted to apply national restrictions under the transnational arrangements. in the uk, after the labour market was opened up, 60 000 job seekers arrived from the new member states in 2004; the two sectors chiefly concerned were agriculture and fisheries. given the high number of vacancies, the influx certainly did not increase unemployment in those two sectors. on the contrary, the immediate effect it had was of improving the profitability and competitiveness of the businesses concerned, raising their productivity and strengthening their financial position. in macroeconomic terms, the policy of opening up the labour market translates into a marked increase in the british growth rate. according to the expert reports available, migration of workers from the ten new member states has helped to increase production and create new jobs and has substantially reduced the number of illegal workers. i welcome these positive benefits.
in writing. this report on the free movement of workers identifies the improved profitability and competitiveness of businesses in ireland, sweden and the uk – countries that have opened their labour markets. the british experience has shown that the uk was right to take the bold step of opening up its labour market. british growth and productivity rates have proven that fears about opening eu labour markets are unfounded. a single market cannot function properly whilst labour markets remain protected and sealed off. the uk has shown how free labour markets, coupled with proper social protection, can boost a prosperous economy. this has led to the longest period of sustained economic growth in living memory in the uk. the european parliamentary labour party believes that european labour markets should be open, like the uk's, and should not fear tides of immigration.
mr president, you introduced mr solana as the high representative of the european union’s common foreign and security policy. which common foreign and security policy is that? perhaps it was the one contained in the proposed european constitution so roundly rejected by the french and dutch in last year’s referendums, and which would be rejected by the british, if they were given the opportunity. the european union’s common foreign and security policy has no legitimacy. mr solana has no legitimacy as the eu’s de facto foreign minister. mr solana speaks as though the european union common foreign and security policy is an accomplished fact. again and again the eu assumes illegitimately the role and characteristics of a political state. this is not a debate about how to solve the problems in the middle east. this is a debate about how to further an illegitimate united states of europe.
mr president, coupled with the election of hamas, the vote in israel will have a defining influence on the prospects for peace in the middle east. the israeli election was widely regarded as a referendum on unilateral action to establish permanent borders. however, 25% of the vote clearly does not give kadima such a mandate and, even if it could garner additional support in the knesset, a unilateral withdrawal from the west bank and the unilateral setting of borders not in accordance with the 1967 borders cannot be a solution. only a peaceful, negotiated settlement can address the legitimate and long-standing concerns of the roadmap process. all parties must pursue a path of positive engagement, as set out by the quartet, which includes talks with the new palestinian authority. it is no easy thing to expect the international community to engage with those yet to renounce violence, but until that time comes, we have no alternative if we wish to move forward. give them an alternative to hopeless violence and a reason to rise to the challenge. alternatively, make their situation worse and they will simply dig in more. if a constructive relationship with the eu and international pressure can bring ariel sharon from his early political career to the legacy he has given to kadima, this surely proves that positive engagement can shift seemingly zero-sum mentalities.
mr president, faced with the government of palestine being in the hands of the terrorist group hamas and with its refusal to give up violence and to recognise israel, it seems to me right and necessary that israel should unilaterally make provision to define and defend its own borders. to do otherwise would be to fail in providing security for its citizens and that must be the prime concern of any government. i would therefore encourage israel, whatever the international pressures, to be resolute and constant in this regard. no good ever comes from pandering to terrorists or their political apologists and i hope that israel, the eu and mr solana will not waver in following such a line and that they will not waver in insisting that the only way forward is for hamas to give up violence and recognise israel.
mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating the israeli labour party on entering into government. they are socialists, they are our sister party and i welcome their manifesto commitment that ‘the occupation erodes the moral fibre of israeli society’, along with amir peretz’s herzliya speech in support of respect for international borders. both provide very important commitments to the way forward. i thank both the commissioner and the high representative for restating this afternoon europe’s commitment to a negotiated, not unilateral, solution. to the commissioner, i repeat our private discussions that, whilst it is absolutely right for her to put conditions on european aid to the palestinian authority, i ask her to develop plans to avoid a humanitarian disaster in the palestinian territories if hamas does not move as quickly as we all hope. to mr solana, i ask him to consider how easy it was for the raffa crossing – supposedly guaranteed by the eu – to be closed during the recent israeli actions, together with the legality of israel withholding customs payments to the palestinian authority, guaranteed under the paris agreement. these are legal obligations to which the european union and the quartet have a duty to seek compliance.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i was privileged to observe the 26 march ukrainian parliamentary election on behalf of this house and the delegation from my political group, the ppe-de group. those elections, in all our views, were held on the day in an exemplary fashion. i formed the view, personally, that in many ways the elections were superior in design to those in my own country, the united kingdom. first of all ukrainian officials demanded rigorous identity checks from all voters, something we do not do in britain. secondly, the polling stations had transparent plastic, sealed ballot boxes, which were watched by official observers, as they filled up throughout the day, and were counted on the spot. in my country the boxes are of black wood, no observers are allowed into the polling stations and our boxes are transported by officials, but with no observers, to a centralised counting point. furthermore, ukraine has no postal votes, which have been implicated in my country, the united kingdom, as subject to fraud. the only minor problem we encountered, which reflected the large turnout of enthusiasm to participate in the election, was slight overcrowding in some polling stations. i also welcome the long-term observer and media monitoring reports, which stated clearly that the entire campaign was conducted in a spirit of transparency and fair access to the media, both by the government and by the opposition parties. i have always championed ukraine as a modern european country that is entitled, in due course, under article 49 of the treaty, to apply for eu membership. that is still some way off, given the enlargement fatigue that has now set in and the fear of some member states of offending russia. that does not represent the views of either my group or this parliament. nevertheless, in the meantime, the european union must collectively do more to recognise that ukraine has demonstrated political maturity in fully respecting european norms of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. we must now reward that irreversible process. a new government is being formed in kiev, but i am confident that whatever its composition, it will remain committed to european integration. that is why our resolution requests from the council and the commission that plans be made that go beyond the pca formulation towards a free trade and visa-free travel area, particularly if ukraine can shortly join the wto. ideally that should take the form of an association agreement, although the commission – and i have to say as enp rapporteur, i might agree with this – might logically argue for an enp neighbourhood agreement instead in the first instance. either way, ukrainians must be brought closer to europe, where they rightfully belong. it is now clear to all of us that the enduring legacy of the orange revolution, namely a lasting democracy and free media, is intact for all to see.
the president of the council. i say quite frankly to the honourable member that we can never be satisfied until all our international obligations have been fulfilled. the commission has therefore decided to make a number of enquiries and to refer to individual cases. the situation is not yet satisfactory. that is why we will continue to address this issue at all levels. if you are calling for more pressure, i have to ask you, mr president, what pressure should the european union put on china? political pressure, i.e. asking questions and reminding them again and again? i know! other ways in which the european union does not directly intervene in china are - and this seems important to me - international bodies, the united nations, and so far the commission on human rights. this will certainly be a subject for the un human rights council in the future. i have already mentioned that the un special rapporteur has a special role to play here. all these are levels and channels through which this question can be addressed. we will be satisfied only when full freedom of belief and religion is achieved.
the president of the council. i never said - because that would also be wrong - that our efforts are only for catholics or only for christians. freedom of religion is a human right which applies to all religions operating within a democratic framework. falun gong is a special case, especially because we know - and you mentioned this - that practices of humiliation, including torture, are used here. we are of course following this with great concern and we have repeatedly spoken about this. you mentioned the re-education camps. we have also addressed these, not just in terms of religious freedom, but in general. the re-education camps have been a thorn in the side of the european union for a long time, as they certainly do not meet the usual international human rights standards. you can therefore be sure, mr president, that we are also fighting against the suppression of the falun gong faith and its followers.
i thank the president-in-office. apart from representations which seem constantly to fall on deaf ears, is there not something more resolute that the eu could do specifically in the area of trade? in trade agreements with china and other countries we always have human rights clauses, but we are so timid about the implementation of them that they might as well not be there. you ask what more we can do. has the time not come to be more robust and to consider sanctions in trade, if that is necessary and is the only thing that will deliver implementation of human rights? what is the point in having the clause if we do not act on it?
last week the us supreme court started a case against the military commissions, looking into the matter. of course, they violate international fair trial standards, are not independent of the executive and evidence is withheld from the defence. they apparently admit to statements under torture, and there are no independent appeals. can the president-in-office of the council state categorically that it is opposed to these military tribunals? again, please answer very specifically whether you are going to put pressure on the united states government to shut down guantánamo bay. that is the answer we need.
author. – with enormous respect to the president-in-office, i have to say that answer was very inadequate, because all he did was repeat the european court of justice ruling, of which i am fully aware. we have had this, but still airlines are avoiding payment. i have a file full of casework on airlines which are not paying compensation that people are clearly entitled to. you said the council is looking closely at this, but that does not help. as i asked in the question, what is the council doing or what action is it considering to ensure that the decision is enforced and that consumers are helped and receive the rights to which they are clearly entitled, as proven by the ecj ruling?
i am pleased that the previous speaker had information given to him. when my flight was cancelled by air france on sunday night at gatwick airport, there were no instructions, no rights given to us at all. i understand that it is a question for member states, but can you please use your good offices to try and ask the member states to make sure that legislation is complied with. at the moment it is not. if passengers are not even given any information about compensation, what can they do?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i endorse every word that the commissioner has said tonight as we commemorate this year’s world health day with the who’s chosen theme of the appalling shortage of health workers. in europe we have three doctors per 1000 people and, as she has said, we are still short of health professionals. in africa they have under five doctors per 100 000 people. in europe it is our fault and in africa it is also too often our fault. and why is it our fault? because the developed countries take 63 000 doctors and nurses a year from developing countries and return just 1300 to those countries. that is an unethical, immoral imbalance. in europe we must do much more to recruit and retain health professionals through training, through pay, through working conditions, through research facilities and so on, but with developing countries we must do so much more and above all we must stop this recruitment rape of their skills. sub-saharan africa has some 750 000 health workers for 682 million people. europe has 15 times higher a ratio. sub-saharan africa is short of one million health workers. ghana has only 1500 doctors for its population of 20 million. two-thirds of the young doctors in that country leave the country within three years of graduation, and yet africa bears 25% of the world’s health and disease burden, and has only 0.6% of the world’s health professionals. in the united kingdom, my country, two thirds of new doctors and 40% of new nurses come from abroad. that is something of which we must be ashamed and we must pledge ourselves to show our guilt by stopping the recruitment rape and by ensuring that we can sustain, with the people of africa, the health services and the health professionals they so desperately need.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i welcome the commissioner’s summary of the complex aspects of this problem. world health day is a good moment for taking stock. we have the millennium development goals and many statements of good intent by governments and parliaments around the world, but unfortunately there is still a huge gap between the rhetoric and the reality on the ground. in too many places people are still dying simply because of the absence of basic medical facilities that could have saved their lives at very little cost. i will mention just one place: the equatorial region of the democratic republic of congo, where the population is suffering a catastrophic death rate, not because of famine or even because of ongoing violence and insecurity, as is the case in the east of congo, but simply because medical facilities are non-existent in that beautiful but inaccessible forest area. we need to take a hard look at commission spending on health and ask why such a low percentage of the edf budget is earmarked for the health sector, as mr van den berg has just pointed out. that is despite the fact that parliament has asked for one fifth of overall development funds to go to basic healthcare and basic education. i want to turn to the issue of health workers. it is not just a question of inadequate funding: it is an area where european member states are actively undermining the health services of developing countries by poaching their trained medical staff. member states may have signed up to commitments not to actively recruit health workers from the poorest nations, but in practice they are finding ways round those promises. for example, the uk has the national health service code on recruitment of health workers, but it only applies to workers recruited by the nhs directly. the code does not apply to nurses recruited by private agencies. often the agency jobs are lower-skilled jobs, so those nurses do not even have the advantage of gaining specialist skills while they are in europe. the result is devastating. in swaziland there are about 3000 nurses and swaziland is training about 100 per year. however, up to 80 nurses per year are leaving for the uk alone. that is on top of the huge number of swazi nurses who are dying of aids: 300 died of aids in 2003-2004. member states must close the loopholes in their codes on health worker recruitment and put in place effective health workforce planning so that they are no longer tempted to poach trained personnel from the very countries where better healthcare is so desperately needed.
mr president, it is an interesting statistic that there are more nurses from malawi living in manchester, in the united kingdom, than there are living in malawi; and there are more doctors from ethiopia living in chicago than there are in ethiopia. there is an estimated global shortage of 820 000 doctors, nurses and other health workers. obviously human resources are a central part of all human healthcare systems, but the reality is that the recruitment of health professionals and the scourge of hiv/aids are continuing to prolong the crisis already afflicting very fragile healthcare systems in developing countries. many leave developing countries – as you said, commissioner – because in developing countries they earn low wages, have poor working conditions, little prospect of advancement and a lack of training. in addition they have the pressure of dealing with high numbers of patients with hiv/aids and other very difficult diseases. this brain drain is the major obstacle to providing quality care in africa. countries are losing the most qualified and experienced nurses. last year kenya lost 3000 graduate nurses to other countries, mostly to the united states and the united kingdom. there is a net flow of skills away from africa, where individuals make decisions to go where they can earn and where they can take their careers forward. many women that i have met across the united kingdom working in elderly care centres, etc., are doing so because they want to earn money in order to send money back to care for their children in the countries where they come from. a consequence is that that the losing nations do not have that skill space that they need to educate their young people and develop their own economies. we in the european union have to look at ways to compensate those countries that are being so drained of the skills that they need. i welcome the commission’s urgent attention to the crisis. we hope that we will see strategies – and that is the next step – that can deal with the root causes of the problem we are talking about this evening. that problem is that in spite of the terrible burden of disease there, africa only has 0.6% of the world’s registered healthcare workers. how can that be acceptable when the healthcare and disease pressures are so enormous there? i am concerned by commissioner frattini’s recent proposal to promote the recruitment of highly educated immigrants, including the creation of a ‘green card’ for researchers, engineers and doctors. parliament must call for an active end to the recruitment of health workers. it rightly calls for the european union to press for a global code of conduct on ethical recruitment. commissioner, would you subscribe to the view that this is something that the commission should do in order to try to deal with this crisis, which is what this evening’s debate is all about? the other side of the coin is that in europe we have an ageing population and we have declining birth rates. we are therefore trying to suck in the health workers from other countries in order to deal with our own problems. raising wages to levels comparable with the industrialised world is very difficult for developing countries, but funding must be targeted at the health system and efforts must be made to decentralise healthcare and to support regional development. i also believe – and no-one else has mentioned this, but it is in the resolution – that tele-medicine is a very important way of dealing with this issue. i was recently in mauritania and saw how, in a very small hospital in a desert area of that country, health workers were making contact with french doctors in order to have some consultation on diagnoses for patients. that is something we could also look at investing in, in a more serious way than we do currently. with regard to nurse practitioners, nurses should be given more status in developing countries than they now have. that is very important, as it is to look at what countries such as uganda are doing, which is to decentralise the health service and take it out of the main cities, into the rural areas. if we are actually going to deliver on the millennium development goals we have a huge task. in relation to health, it is a major task and we need to make a contribution. in relation to the financial perspectives we are now discussing, we really do not have the options to deliver on the debates and on the commitments that you have discussed this evening.
mr president, world health day reminds us that access to health is the single most desirable goal that all humans wish to reach. yet the range of challenges to global health today is wide and the prospects of achieving the international goals are daunting. annually four million children die before they are one month old. another four million children die from diarrhoea or pneumonia. malaria is responsible for at least another million child deaths, and in total more than ten million children die every year as a result of conditions for which we have effective interventions. these problems are outrageous in the context of global wealth in the 21st century. yet there are new challenges to health associated with the accelerated globalisation of the markets, such as sars and avian flu. in many countries hiv/aids has already begun to destroy the modest progress made since the 1980s and is today threatening the survival of entire societies. the world’s response, while impressive relative to other areas, is far from that which is required. but not all is bleak. the world has also witnessed unprecedented progress in science and knowledge and today we know how to address the great majority of the world’s disease burden. many of the solutions are cheap and low-tech. even greater, therefore, is the responsibility upon us, the imperative to focus on how these interventions can be delivered to those who need them. health is at the very heart of the millennium development goals and it must be recognised by all that health is central to development and to the fight to reduce poverty, as well as an important measure of human wellbeing. the clear message coming out of 2005 and the millennium development goals is that of health systems. we will only start to make real progress when we finally get serious about health systems. without the basic systemic capacities in place in all countries, it will not be possible to do what politically has already been agreed upon: to scale up disease prevention and controlled programmes for reducing child and maternal mortality and roll back hiv/aids, tb and malaria. central to each and every health system are the people working in it and for it; having the right workers with the right skills in the right place doing the right things is fundamental to being able to address the full range of health challenges in a country. however, these elements also include health stewardship – the range of functions carried out by governments as they seek to achieve health objectives, sustainable health financing, efficient and effective health service delivery and the application of health knowledge, technology and infrastructure. while the lack of health workers is of particular urgency, the overall task is to improve all these aspects simultaneously.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, tonight we are talking about exceptional market measures for a very successful industry in the eu. we have some five billion chickens in the eu. it is an industry that is not subsidised by the common agricultural policy. we are, as the commissioner said, facing a reduction in consumer confidence with regard to chicken meat. in some member states we have seen that consumption drop up to 70%. there is no doubt that we need to promote how safe chicken meat is, especially when properly cooked. in the eu we have put together very good measures to help stamp out the disease when it comes into europe. at the end of the day, we really need to reduce production and sort out the demand for chicken meat. one of the benefits of the poultry industry is that the time from when you start to incubate an egg to the time the chicken is ready to eat can be as little as nine weeks. therefore it is possible to take production out. i do not believe that export refunds are the answer to this crisis. the problem is that if you put a lot of extra chicken meat on to the world market – which is already saturated – and if you are not careful about using public funds to subsidise it, you may find that meat comes back to the european market. i believe the way forward is to reduce the supply and then try to increase demand to get the industry back on its feet. it is not only the poultry sector that suffers but also the cereal sector, because five billion chickens eat an awful lot of wheat. at the end of the day i agree with you, commissioner, that 50% co-financing between member states and the commission must be the way forward. i believe that will be the way forward for a lot of agriculture in the future.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i am somewhat bemused by the european union’s approach to the bird flu scare. the eu has, it seems to me, made a mountain out of a molehill. there is no evidence whatever to suggest that bird flu has mutated and can be passed between human beings. in fact there is very little evidence that it can even be caught from birds unless there is considerable direct contact with the remains of dead birds. despite that, in britain there have been lurid headlines about 320 000 possible deaths and bodies being disposed of in mass graves. this very day, a full-scale bird flu outbreak rehearsal, involving several hundred people, has started in the county of norfolk, with the dramatic title of ‘operation hawthorn’. the theatrical way in which the matter is being handled is creating an atmosphere of hysteria, and the eu has played its part in that by holding well-publicised, international summits to discuss the bird flu crisis. it now wants to set aside eur 5 million over the next five years for exceptional market support measures to deal with the alleged crisis. there is even what appears to be an open-ended commitment for more funds in 2011. it seems to me that the eu and some national governments are guilty of creating a massive public scare that has severely damaged the poultry industry, with little or no justification. forgive me for being cynical, but it also appears to be a handy way for the eu to promote itself as a caring organisation. whatever we are actually dealing with here is a virulent outbreak of public hysteria, generated by a highly contagious burst of over-the-top publicity from the national governments and the european union. in short, everyone needs to stop flapping around like headless chickens and start examining this matter with a degree of objectivity. if we are going to allocate those large sums of money, they should be used for the production of educational literature that can be disseminated to the public. that material should let the public know that there is actually no risk from properly cooked poultry and that it is perfectly safe to buy it in supermarkets and to eat it in restaurants. let us stop making a crisis out of a drama.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, how to help the countries of africa and other parts of the developing world is a key factor in ensuring a more prosperous and therefore a more stable world. what africa needs in particular is respect for the rule of law, respect for contract law and the protection of private property. under those circumstances there will be economic development and prosperity. this is very hard to achieve when many of the governments are socialist or quasi-socialist or simply kleptocracies. the story of international aid to these countries is sadly one of waste, embezzlement and corruption. if the eu really wants to help these countries, it should not help consolidate corrupt systems through more aid. what it should do is embrace free trade and lower the trade barriers and tariffs – in fact remove trade barriers and tariffs that are holding back the economic development of these countries.
mr president, i thank mr cornillet for his excellent and wide-ranging report, which covered all the points raised in the debate this morning. anyone looking at our joint parliamentary assembly over a number of years, as i certainly have for around 12 years, has seen a very heartening increase in confidence, maturity and, indeed, in engaging on issues related to trade and to political dialogue, to which we attach great importance. someone said that everything in africa was terrible and things were not improving. i do not think that we can make that case. there are limitations, but we are there, working behind the cotonou partnership agreement with parliamentarians in a unique way. there is no other north-south parliamentary assembly such as ours that has this opportunity to press on governance, democracy and human rights, and that is what we do. on the edf, briefly, we are concerned and we had a debate at the part-session in brussels a few weeks ago. many of us are concerned about the situation of the overseas countries and territories in relation to the edf. we are concerned that allowance has not been made for the entry of east timor into the acp-eu relationship, and we have a number of other concerns. we are always puzzled about the 3% or 4% administration costs. i do not know why the commission needs to put money in to pay itself for the job it is doing. i find that rather odd. let me turn briefly to sugar, with which the commissioner has been directly involved. at the weekend i am going to africa – swaziland – and mauritius to look again at the issues related to sugar there. the commissioner must be aware that the figures we now have on the budget line, going from eur 130 million up to eur 170 million by 2013, are far short of what the commissioner and others had promised, which was eur 190 million. my own government talked about eur 230 million. they are going to get eur 1.1 billion at the end of 2013 and it is back-loaded. how can that be sensible? we urge the commissioner to look at this and to try to make this more workable. stop this back-loading and increase the amounts on the budget line for these countries. the issue is not just about employment in sugar, as the commissioner must know – because we made enough fuss about it in europe – but also about the other developments that depend on and grow around that source of employment. thousands and thousands of livelihoods are at stake in those 18 sugar protocol countries. you can rely on us in the joint parliamentary assembly to keep raising this issue. we have work in progress. our committees are working well and i think that we can fairly say that the joint parliamentary assembly can only grow in strength in future years. we will continue to fight on edf, trade and other concerns and priorities that we share with our fellow joint parliamentary assembly parliamentarians.
mr president, i think we see the acp relationship as maturing well, which may sound like the description of a long-term mistress, but it is true that we know each other, we understand each other, sometimes we excite each other, sometimes we see each other’s blemishes, but we grow to value each other’s qualities. my message to the acp is that we still wish on principle that acp delegates should only be from among members of parliament and not ambassadors, and preferably from government and opposition parties, which would better reflect the balance of the european parliament’s delegation. i am not sure whether one day we will have the ep meeting the ap – the african parliament, including, of course, the caribbean and pacific – but certainly we must play our part in sustaining and developing that african parliament concept. my message to the european parliament is that reach has shown us how intimately the work of each of us affects that of the other. we had valuable discussions in bamako and in edinburgh and this parliament, i am sure, will take the acp views into account. often, however, we legislate for all the right reasons in the european parliament yet we have not heard the worries of the acp, because we have not listened. that is why i say to the commissioner that the acp is not just for our good friend mr michel: it is for all the commissioners in the college. i am very pleased that this house overruled the presidency of parliament on the question of where the last jpa should be sited in the european union. it was right for us to site it in the country holding the presidency, just as we rotate our meetings in the jpa in the acp countries. that gives acp members an opportunity to see different aspects of different policies in europe, for example the malaria vaccine research in edinburgh. in the same way, we learned much from seeing the desertification of the niger; or the implementation of the vaccine fund on the ground in mali, where we could see the people who are most affected actually benefiting from the work being done. the flu pandemic threat and the avian flu pandemic reality show just how important it is that we continue to work closely together – europe and the countries of the acp – for our mutual benefit. (applause)
the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has done some great work in deepening our ties with acp countries and affords them a crucial link to our deliberations, particularly as we come to finally address our trade policies, which all too often hinder rather than help development. scotland has been at the forefront of calls for change in 2005, with the make poverty history march in edinburgh, the g8 summit in gleneagles in the summer, and of course we were delighted to host the acp-eu meeting in edinburgh. what we now need to see is our member state governments putting our fine words into action, and making development policy not just a matter of doling out aid but of working with developing countries in fair trade, to all our betterment.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating my colleague mr van den berg on an excellent and valuable report. there is no doubt that overcoming corruption in the allocation of development aid is one of the main obstacles that we face in achieving the millennium development goals. while concern mounts over a deficiency in funding for mdgs, we must ensure that the aid is being provided to developing countries and is being allocated efficiently. with increasing levels of aid, there is growing concern that politicians and officials will misuse money intended for the world’s poor. as mr van den berg said, corruption is widespread, affecting every sector and bureaucracy. we must remember, however, that it is by no means solely a problem for developing countries. there is a common argument that aid should not be channelled through government. however, we are increasing budget support and i am pleased to hear what the commissioner has said about strengthening institutions to eliminate corruption through budget support and the reform of the public sector. massive restructuring of civil service and public financial management is necessary. often these reforms are the sole responsibility of a few select civil servants. civil servants in developing countries, who live on low, public sector wages, are struggling to keep their families out of poverty. they are subject to bribes and often have to moonlight in order to supplement their incomes. how can we expect people to implement the necessary reforms if they are not paid accordingly? i suggest to the commissioner that we recognise and acknowledge about 200 civil servants in each developing country as the key players in the decision-making process and include them in budget support. why do we not follow singapore’s example and give these civil servants extra supplementary incomes, comparable to our standards, so that they are not tempted to take bribes to keep their families in the style to which they have become accustomed? we also need to deregulate. regulation is the mother of corruption. the power of the paper impels people to get permissions, and permissions are sought and bought by corruption. if we deregulate as much as possible in the developing countries, we will have a chance to address this problem. after all, regulation was used as a colonial instrument: the power of the paper, as opposed to the soldier in the village, to enact the imperial master’s wishes. when independence came, these countries kept those controls in place. they did not deregulate the imperial controls and, because of that, corruption has become endemic because regulation has been piled on regulation. we need to get the national parliaments in developing countries empowered with thorough investigative capacities to look at corruption in those administrations. we are on the right track. i congratulate mr van den berg on an excellent report and i am very pleased to hear what the commissioner has said.
mr president, in his opening remarks mr van den berg – and indeed others – picked up on the huge amounts of money we are talking about. in this parliament we have to be realistic about what we can do. the report looks at some of the aspects where we can make a difference. i would like to concentrate on the role of parliaments. the european parliament has well-established links with parliaments in many of the countries around the world, the countries with which we are concerned. sometimes parliaments are the problem. i accept that. but in others, as the previous speaker has mentioned, national parliaments can be excluded; they can be bypassed in the process and corrupt officials can get hold of the aid without the involvement of government. therefore, i believe we should do more to support democratically elected governments and help them to reinforce the mechanisms in their countries for distributing the aid and making sure that the money donated is widely used. mr ryan referred to a very interesting point in the report: that there is evidence that corruption falls as the proportion of parliamentary seats held by women rises. we can encourage that. we can do more in democracies to make sure that more and more women are elected. i was very proud to be part of the european parliament’s delegation to afghanistan to support their first parliamentary elections. there we saw women voting to elect other women. the more we can do to help women and parliaments to develop, the better.
there was an agreement on tuesday night by all the political groups to change one word in paragraph 8 from ‘integration’ to ‘perspective’, which brings it into line with the enp report, for which i was the rapporteur, and with mr brok’s report on enlargement. mysteriously, the sessional services, not realising perhaps the sensitivity of this, decided of their own volition to put the word ‘aspirations’ instead, without any consultation with the political groups. can we amend the joint text to the agreed word ‘perspective’? (applause)
in writing. mr president, the situation in belarus becomes graver by the day, and we must continue to keep a close eye on developments there. while it is the sovereign right of countries to run themselves as they see fit, that presupposes that there is a fair and free society, and in belarus this is clearly not the case. it is fitting that today we express our concern and continued support for democracy and dialogue in belarus, and we must consider stronger action in the future if the repression continues.
in writing. i will vote for this resolution. on boxing day 2004 i was in kiev as one of parliament’s observers for the re-run presidential elections that saw the orange revolution sweep all before it. but its promise has not been properly fulfilled as former allies fall out and corruption is found within the ranks of those promising to sweep it away. i can only hope that these new elections teach all of ukraine’s politicians the lessons that must be learnt if ukraine is to join europe’s democratic nations in going forward in partnership.
in writing. mr president, the orange revolution was a time of so much hope, yet it is clear that the transition to a functioning democracy remains a painful one for ukraine. we in this house must play our part, as we did in the orange revolution itself, though today we must continue to support the forces of progress and democracy within the ukraine. the eu is in the best position to play honest broker, adviser and even friend to the ukrainians; we must continue our engagement with this process and i am pleased to support this resolution today.
in writing. i welcome this report on aid effectiveness and corruption in developing countries. corruption is a by-product of weak governance. as corruption often involves an important role for the state, it is sometimes defined as the abuse of public power for private benefit. weak institutions and administrations with limited accountability often allow for the misuse of public goods by politicians or public officials. i believe that increasing the role of parliaments is vital to the advancement of reforms in public finance management and that there should be instituting or reinforcing mechanisms within parliament for bringing government to account.
in writing. mr president, i would add my voice of congratulation to our rapporteur on this report, which deals with an issue that is crucial to the aid agenda, yet it is often glossed over. the extent to which aid and development funding, so well meant, encourages corruption is often very disturbing, and to ensure value for money for our taxpayers and the citizens of the recipient countries, we must continue to look into this. i wholeheartedly endorse the recommendations in this report and am happy to support it today.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, clearly there is an unholy alliance – though an unacknowledged and unintended alliance – between the turkish security forces, the pkk and the european opponents of turkey’s accession. they are all doing their bit in their own way to impede turkey’s progress towards the european union. the turkish police and army are not serving the interests of the turkish government in their excessive use of force against protestors in diyarbakir and other towns. the deep state is not under the democratic control of that government. the fact is the military has a vested interest in the prolongation of the violence, because that enhances its power, its importance and its resources. the pkk does employ terrorist methods, and it has no doubt provoked and stirred up some of the recent violence, but its aims of achieving recognition of the cultural, linguistic and political identity of the kurdish people are shared by many kurds who do not espouse violence. to that extent, the pkk are seen as freedom fighters. the challenge, one where the turkish authorities are failing, is to separate the die-hard opponents of violence and those who want to pursue a democratic route to a political solution. a very hopeful development over the last few days has been the very moderate calls by people like ahmed türk and osman baydemir, the major of diyarbakir, for an end to the violence and for political discussions. i somewhat regret that the commission did not say anything about encouraging the turkish government to go down this route: not only of social and economic progress, which clearly is needed, not only of the recognition of linguistic and cultural rights, but of actually talking about political dialogue and a political solution in the kurdish region in south-east turkey in the construction of the turkish state. the commission seems to baulk at giving the turkish government that encouragement. we all need to rally round and encourage prime minister erdogan to carry on where he seemed to start last august but where he has stalled, no doubt because of the army. we all need to help him get the political dialogue for a solution going.
mr president, i declare an interest in this debate as patron of the peace in kurdistan campaign and a board member of the eu-turkey civic commission. i endorse utterly my group colleague mr özdemir’s remarks about dialogue and how this process is not black and white. all sides have their shortcomings and we in this house must continue to encourage where necessary, and criticise where necessary. we must also, i stress, keep an eye to our own integrity and ensure that legitimate concerns about the painfully slow progress of the peace process within kurdistan and turkey as a whole does not become a cipher for those within this house and within the eu who are more anti-turkish eu membership than they are pro-democracy. the copenhagen criteria constitute the roadmap. the copenhagen criteria on recognition of cultural, historic and political rights are clear, they are already laid down. we in this house must keep our own hands clean. the eu as a champion of dialogue and democracy must ensure that we always remember our own principles and our own role as honest, impartial broker, able to help and criticise where necessary.
mr president, in my view the greatest service that could be given to the people of south-eastern turkey is for kurdish extremist groups to cease their campaign of violence and terrorism. it is a characteristic of terrorist campaigns that their victims are, for the most part, ordinary civilians who want nothing more than to have a fair chance of bringing up their children in an atmosphere of peace, stability, freedom and increasing prosperity. none of that can be delivered while terrorists and insurgents pursue their own selfish ends, oppress, intimidate and mobilise kurdish communities at home and abroad, and seek to inflame international opinion against the turkish authorities. i do not imagine that there is very much freedom of opinion in those areas dominated by the pkk. from time to time the pkk, an organisation with its roots in the cold war, has declared a ceasefire. the most recent of those was last august, for less than a month. since then it has continued its campaign of violence and murder. since last weekend, as the commissioner and other speakers have mentioned, over a dozen people have died as a result of terrorist violence. over the years the victims of terrorism have numbered tens of thousands. turkey’s eu accession negotiations are now under way. that is itself a factor in the pkk campaign. the pkk is not interested in a stable, thriving and democratic turkey oriented to the west. it would prefer its own little marxist state, living in the past. of course we want to see reforms in turkey as part of a modernising agenda; of course we want to see great economic improvements in south-eastern turkey. i feel enormous sympathy for people that live in poverty and fear. we want reasonable kurdish concerns to be resolved in a just and fair way through negotiation. none of that can be achieved with a background of violence or the continuing threat of violence. the kurdish extremists must end their terrorism. the turkish authorities can then respond in a spirit of goodwill.
author. – mr president, when a mission from the committee on development visited darfur in september 2004, we were shocked to see at first hand people sheltering under twigs because their village had been bombed. we pushed hard at that time for a strengthening of the african union monitoring mission, and in october 2004 it was indeed extended to include the protection of civilians who were under imminent threat. the tragedy is that 18 months on, bombings, attacks and rapes are still taking place, despite the best efforts of the african union both in the abuja peace talks and on the ground in darfur. there are simply not enough african union troops to be able to control the high level of violence that is taking place, particularly near the chad border and in the corridor between tawila and graida. that is why the un must get involved in darfur as a matter of urgency. the un needs to back the african union during the remainder of its mandate and be prepared to take over in october 2006. the government of sudan says that this is colonialism. it is not. it is a sad recognition that earlier initiatives to rein in the violence have largely failed. even the humanitarian effort in darfur is now under threat, because access to the humanitarian agencies is being obstructed. with over 3.5 million people dependent on food aid and medical aid, we cannot just stand by. the violence has to stop.
author. – mr president, the motion in front of you focuses on two key issues of human rights, where two particularly vulnerable groups are gravely at risk in modern-day iraq. the first issue is that of religious minorities, the second is that of prisoners. turning to the religious minorities, there have been extensive assaults recently on christians and the concomitant lack of aid for the refugees who have fled – who happen to be christians and assyrians – into nearby syria and jordan. let me say immediately that religious persecution is non-islamic. the prophet mohammed, peace be upon him, declared that christians would be the best friends of his followers, the muslims. in the holy koran there are clear statements of respect for other faiths. those who are carrying out these assaults are anarchists: they misuse the name of islam for their anarchical aim to restore dictatorship with themselves in power. what can we do? we can urge, as we do in our strong and powerful resolution, the current government at all levels of iraq to protect religious minorities and – in this resolution – most particularly the assyrian christians. we in the european union could provide support and call upon the international community to provide support for the refugees now numbering hundreds of thousands, i understand, in neighbouring countries such as syria and jordan. i urge you to support this resolution. on the second issue – that of prisoners’ rights – let us remind everyone that the rule of law demands respect for the law on the rights of prisoners. that is something that all of the international community knows, as does the new iraqi government. let us demand, therefore, that the rights of political and other prisoners are fully respected and let the european union support the establishment of the rule of law from top to bottom, a justice system to support the iraqi-elected government.
author. – mr president, speaking on behalf of the pse group i should like to say that we are all aware of the awful situation in iraq’s prisons. we all know about what happened in abu ghraib and elsewhere. we very much support the resolution demanding the establishment of detention conditions that conform with international standards. we will be voting in favour of the amendment that asks for the names to be revealed of those people who are held in prison and that they be allowed family visits. we also urge the iraqi parliament to ratify the convention against torture. i mainly want to speak on the issue of the assyrians. as someone who supports and is supported by the ‘save the assyrian campaign’, whose honorary president is lord carey, the former archbishop of canterbury, i am well aware of the forgotten people of iraq. we hear talk about the sunni, the shia and the kurds, but who has been talking about the 800 000 assyrians that live in iraq? they make up 8% of the population, which would be considerably larger if it had not been for the fact that, because of persecution, many have fled to jordan and syria, where they live in terrible conditions. we urge the iraqi authorities to condemn all acts of violence against the assyrians, the chaldeans, the syriacs and other christian minorities in iraq. we urge the iraqi authorities and the multinational force to find the perpetrators of the crimes against them, to facilitate the return and resettlement of the assyrians in secure environments where their customs and way of life are respected, and urge the constitutional committee of the iraqi council of representatives to preserve the cultural and religious rights of all iraqi communities in its proposals for constitutional amendments.
author. – mr president, this powerful resolution calls parliament’s attention to the fate of a beleaguered parliamentarian, al-ghad opposition party leader ayman nour, and requests the egyptian authorities to respect our views. we in the european union are rightly proud of our deep and profound relationship with egypt. indeed, egypt co-chairs the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly and, with egypt, we have defined a european neighbourhood policy, which strengthens political dialogue and integrates us with egypt – primus inter pares as egypt is within the arab league – to promote peace and stability. egypt is instrumental in helping us in that task. we bitterly regret, therefore, that after the recent presidential election and the parliamentary elections in egypt in november and december last year, dr nour was arrested. it is hard to believe that the charges for which he has been given five years’ imprisonment could be true. ayman nour has hundreds, nay, thousands of supporters. it is very difficult to see why he would have bothered or needed to falsify some of the 50 signatures needed to have his candidature be legally effective. we are gravely disturbed at the deterioration of his health; deeply troubled that his appeal will be considered by a judge who could be considered to have a major conflict of interest; and indeed we wish to remind the government of egypt, and the courts of egypt, that human rights are a fundamental basis of the european union-egypt partnership and association agreement, which we value so very highly. indeed, we want to stress that our view is well in line with the laws of egypt itself and so we request the egyptian government to look at this again and to regulate the framework, so that opposition candidates can stand and perhaps even dr nour’s judge might be reconsidered.
author. – mr president, we need to realise that this is the third resolution dealing with human rights in egypt and dr ayman nour’s situation in particular. dr ayman nour was sentenced to five years’ imprisonment for the alleged crime of falsifying his political party’s registration documents. he came second in the last presidential elections and he remains in prison today where his health continues to deteriorate. it is positive, after a fashion, that his case will be reviewed by the court of cassation on 18 may 2006, but we must keep a watchful eye on this trial. in recital i of the resolution we commit ourselves to an ad hoc delegation at least trying to see him in the event that the trial continues his incarceration. it is clear, however – in the eyes of my group at least – that he should be released forthwith, because the crimes of which he is accused and indeed convicted do not appear to stack up in reality. the egyptian government should be in no doubt that we will watch this case with interest. dr ayman nour is an example of a wider difficulty in egypt with human rights in general, and it is in this connection that this resolution presents some concrete steps forward. in paragraphs 7 and 8 of the resolution, which i would ask the commissioner to comment on this afternoon, we call on the commission to create a specific subcommittee on human rights in the framework of the eu-egypt association agreement. there is a human rights deficit in egypt that must be addressed. the creation of a specific committee to monitor and enforce the action plan will be a concrete way to give teeth to the warm words that this house too often produces. egypt is a valued partner of the eu and this house in the middle east peace process, an ally in so much and a partner in development, but we must acknowledge that egypt does not meet our standards. we must pointedly, if necessary, use the association agreement to assist in the development and building-up of egyptian civil society for the betterment of the egyptian people and a more constructive degree of eu-egyptian partnership.
mr president, there seem to be many different recollections but it is certainly my recollection that we agreed in the conference of presidents that there would not be a resolution. however, i rise to ask you to put an end to this and allow us to get on with our business this afternoon, either by requesting a vote in the house to proceed with the agenda as proposed, or by simply going ahead.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, at 1.23 a.m. on 26 april 1986 an alarm sounded that signalled the world’s worst ever civil nuclear accident. the explosion at the chernobyl power plant spewed radioactive waste over vast swathes of the former ussr and western europe, and rendered an area with a radius of 30 km uninhabitable to humankind. it is fitting that we express today our solidarity with the victims of that accident and that we recognise the serious impact that it had on so many lives. official un figures predicted up to 9 000 cancer-related deaths as a result of that accident. however, a greenpeace report released last week estimated 93 000, which could rise to around 200 000 if we include other related illnesses. i want to speak, however, of the future, not of the past. chernobyl remains a symbol of the perils of nuclear fuel and the reason why we must work with the countries of central and eastern europe that have nuclear reactors based on the same design, to render those as safe as possible while they must function, and take them out of commission as soon as we can. i particularly welcome the commissioner’s commitment to the development of renewable technologies. the commissioner will shortly be visiting my constituency, where we are closing nuclear power plants and developing renewable fuels. with finite resources fast depleting, europe will have to radically re-examine its patterns of energy supply and consumption. this is especially true at a time of chronic instability in the middle east, of alarming hikes in the price of crude oil, and increased competition for resources. if we are to avoid being 90% dependent on russian oil by 2020, we have to achieve greater autonomy in energy supply and develop a common energy policy with an intelligent, balanced energy mix. money invested in clean green technology is not money wasted and if europe can lead the world in researching green technologies it will create more jobs, revive manufacturing, and generate greater export potential for our products. that is why my group applauds the council and the austrian presidency for backing plans to double the use of biomass, including organic waste, for energy purposes, allowing us to cut energy imports by over 6% and bring up to 300 000 jobs to rural areas with overall consumption rising, greater energy efficiency combined with the renewables could generate around 25% of our needs. we have got to increase that figure, we have got to make a genuine commitment to investment in technologies for the future. investing in projects such as hydrogen fuel might have the potential to achieve oil savings equivalent to 13% of global oil demand. given the substantial contribution that nuclear power already makes to our energy autonomy, there must be renewed momentum to invest in safety, both to ensure that nuclear power stations produce less waste and present less risk and to develop europe’s research into fusion energy through the euratom framework and the experiment in cadarache in france. lenin believed that progress could be achieved only through socialism and electricity. history has judged him wrong on the first count but perhaps not on the second. nobody denies that we need a sustainable and secure energy supply; they disagree only on the mix. the anniversary of the chernobyl disaster is a reminder of the challenges we face in delivering our energy requirements while minimising the risks. we owe it to the victims of chernobyl to develop safe, reliable and sustainable sources of energy. (applause)
author. – first of all i would like to thank commissioner rehn and the officials dg enlargement for the serious and assiduous way in which they have been guiding and monitoring bulgaria’s progress towards accession. it is important that we get this right, both for the sake of the people of bulgaria and for our own citizens. it would be unfortunate if there were any cooling of enthusiasm for enlargement at this stage. it would be quite wrong if the prospects of bulgaria and romania were damaged because of any mood change. after all, these countries complete the previous round of enlargement, the eu’s fifth round, and are not part of the next. the accession treaty signed by bulgaria and romania on 25 april last year, and already ratified by 15 eu member states, deliberately contains various sorts of what might be called ‘conditionality’. first there is the possible postponement clause allowing accession to be delayed by one year in very extreme circumstances. this is of course a political judgement. in my view, the consequences of postponement would be entirely negative: a slap in the face rather than encouragement; a bad signal to the bulgarian people. it would encourage extremist forces and shake business confidence, and nothing would be achieved that cannot be achieved by other means. secondly, there are separate thematic safeguard clauses. these were also included in the accession treaties of the last ten countries that joined the european union. they are for possible use once accession has taken place. two of them relate to economic and internal market aspects, the third to the justice and policing system, combating organised crime and corruption. this is perhaps the area of greatest concern and the focus of the oral question. there are of course other areas that need serious attention, not least the situation of children in care, the integration of the roma and animal health and welfare controls. in terms of justice and home affairs i do not think we should be looking for a harmonised system across the european union. that is generally undesirable, but in any case, what model would we take? but we do want a structure and process that give confidence and deliver the right outcome. among other developments in bulgaria there is now a new penal code, a new chief prosecutor, constitutional changes have been passed that allow the easier lifting of immunities, and the judicial system act is going through parliament. but it is concrete results that we want, not just legislation. yes, these have been a long time coming – too long perhaps – but they are there now. the clear-up rate for general crime in bulgaria bears comparison with that in many current eu member states. for example, the crime rate is lower than in germany, the detection rate higher. we should recognise that bulgaria and romania are being subjected to an unparalleled degree of scrutiny. there is much still to be done and the process of reform will continue for many years. the commission should be prepared to give a clear signal to the council: take the decision in june for accession on 1 january 2007; take the decision in december, in the light of further progress by the bulgarian authorities and in cooperation with them, on any monitoring and other safeguard measures that may be necessary. at the end of the day, what is important is that the people of bulgaria should have confidence in their administration and justice system.
mr president, i see the questions today as pertinent and important, because they reflect the general view that there are still concerns about justice, the rule of law and corruption in the two candidate countries under discussion. successive governments in romania and bulgaria have made superhuman efforts to comply with the advice and recommendations of the european union. much of this effort is not easy to see by outside observers. structural, economic and social reforms are by their very nature unglamorous and not of any interest to the media. however, in romania, for example, both the former nastase government and the current tariceanu government have shown remarkable commitment to the acquis communautaire, as well as playing a steady hand in spite of the cut and thrust of national politics. legal reform and the fight against corruption have to be carried through very carefully in order to succeed, so they are always slow to bring results. if too many high-level politicians are sued it may begin to look like a witch-hunt. however, in romania, minister monica macovei, backed up by her prime minister and her president against considerable opposition within the system itself, has made dramatic steps. in my view, to delay accession by one year would bring no real benefit to the european union, romania or bulgaria or to their electorates, as one year is not a significant timeframe in accession terms and no significant reforms at all could be expected in such a short twelve months. however, it would send a very damaging signal to these two countries, both of which have bent over backwards to accommodate the union’s advice and requirements in a spirit of real partnership and openness. the risk would be to alienate public opinion in these countries against the union and that would risk us being seen as vacuous and vacillators. currently both countries are strongly pro-european union. it would be a real shame to risk the high level of trust that those nations have shown – among both the governments and the people – being lost .
mr president, as a member of the delegation to the eu-romania joint parliamentary committee i congratulate the commission and the romanian government on their continued cooperation in moving close to preparedness for full accession. i believe every effort should continue to be made, because any deferment, any delay, would have a serious negative impact on public opinion in the acceding state and only encourage those interests most opposed to reform. there is, however, one area in which the commission should maintain its vigilance, and that concerns provision of care for orphans. it is the experience of many charities working in the field that they remain hampered by the failure to enact and implement envisaged legislation which would allow the government and the charities to enter into contractual relations, thereby permitting the charities to receive matching funds. it is also the case that the charities are receiving different advice from government inspectors about the provision of services and the necessary technical standards of equipment from that which pertains in state orphanages. would the commissioner impress upon the romanian government the continuing need to improve the provision of care for orphans? would he emphasise the need to enact the envisaged legislation, enabling charities to have proper contracts with the government and allowing them to have financial support? in the context of achieving the successful future enlargement of the eu it is essential that humanitarian conditions play a central role in the continued cooperation between the commission and the acceding states.
mr president, ‘wider still and wider shall thy bounds be set’. this is not a european union any more. what you are all after is a european empire, is it not? it does not matter whether they reform or not, they are joining – the political decision has been made already. i was one of only three british meps – all ukip of course – that opposed the last wave of enlargement. free movement of goods and services between countries with vastly differing levels of wealth is a plain different thing to the free movement of peoples. we have had over a third of a million people move into britain from countries like poland in the last 20 months, and when bulgaria and romania join there will be another flood of migrants into britain. it is not just bad for britain: it will be bad for bulgaria and romania because their brightest and best young people will be lured away by money. it is bad for us. it is bad for them. in fact the whole project looks like madness.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we are in a catch-22 situation. we supported democratic elections in palestine and ended up with a government run by a movement which figures on our list of international terrorists. continuing financial aid to the hamas-led government would lend support to a regime which denies the right of its neighbour to exist; stopping financial support renders the palestinian state unviable, puts the jobs of 140 000 public servants at risk and ultimately adds to tension. all political groups in this house are divided about what we should do. mine is no exception. we supported the palestinian authority with usd 600 million a year because we wanted to influence the peace process. if we do not, others will. hamas needs usd 170 million a month to pay its wage bill. iran said ten days ago that it will give 50 million; on saturday russia offered help; the gulf countries have promised some 80 million. by contrast, israel is holding back tax revenue which belongs to the palestinians and the us treasury tightened the screws on palestinian cash this week when it banned american nationals from doing business with the first democratically elected palestinian authority. what message is the european union sending by stopping aid to the palestinians? the council wants to stress that aid is conditional on an explicit political commitment. the answer that a delegation from this house was given by moderate palestinians and by eu officials working there was that we are perceived to punish palestinians for electing a hamas-led government. president-in-office, commissioner, people read the headlines, they do not always read the details. und sie wissen auch aus ihrem eigenen land, dass eine oppositionspartei in der regierung nicht immer das macht, was sie in der opposition sagt. mr president, liberals and democrats urge hamas to recognise the right of israel to exist; they must recognise that being a democratically elected government brings responsibilities. however, we must understand their perception as settlement after settlement is built on the west bank that israel denies their right to enjoy a viable state. the longer we delay recognition of that government, the longer ordinary palestinians will suffer and the longer israeli's will continue to live in fear in insecurity. it is incumbent on us all to create a new dynamic in the middle east, taking advantage in the change in the protagonists. hamas must be made to acknowledge that they will get no quarter from the international community until they renounce violence, recognise israel and recognise the commitments to the roadmap. israel must be told that its policy of settlement outwith its borders must stop and that parts of its wall must come down. officially hamas's ceasefire is unbroken although there are those who would wish to have it otherwise. as long as that ceasefire holds there is hope of bringing the two sides together again for dialogue and negotiation. let us, the european union take the initiative, not leave it to countries like iran. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, my party, the uk independence party, constantly criticises the european union, so it makes a pleasant change for me at least partially to be able to support the commission’s decision to suspend funding to the palestinian authority. the palestinian people have made the sad decision to elect hamas, a terrorist front organisation, to government; they now have to live with the consequences of that decision. the spending of taxpayers’ money in palestine by the european union has long been a scandal in that these monies have never been fully accounted for and have almost certainly found their way into terrorist pockets. the palestinian people as such may be a deserving case for humanitarian aid, but such aid should not come from the european union, whose own accounts have not been signed off by its own auditors for 11 consecutive years. the spending of international aid should be returned to national states.
mr president, i stand 150% behind the council and commission’s wise decision to freeze all direct budgetary aid to the palestinian authority led by an unreformed hamas. i always questioned western legitimisation and acceptance of hamas candidates committed to armed struggle and to wiping the state of israel off the map. i took the trouble of reading their 1988 charter, which is chillingly medieval, bigoted and steeped in incitement to anti-semitism and support for jihad and sharia law. with hindsight we should have spelt it out more clearly, as we were clearly warned by israel at the time that hamas candidates should not have been allowed to stand unless they foreswore terrorist violence and recognised the right of the state of israel to exist and they were committed to the undertakings of the plo and the agreements made by the plo on the oslo peace accord, with the quartet and on the roadmap for peace. after all, the muslim brotherhood, hamas’s spiritual mentors in egypt, were not allowed to stand on a platform advocating a violent overthrow of their government. furthermore, the entire generous aid package to the palestinian authority was predicated on a commitment to a two-state solution, achieved by peaceful negotiations. i personally find it abominable that the hamas government openly supported the suicide passover attack in tel aviv recently and continue to allow rocket attacks which fall indiscriminately and deliberately on civilian targets in israel: a war crime under international law. lastly, you know someone by the friends they keep, and last week allegedly osama bin laden himself, as well as president ahmadinejad of iran, endorsed the islamist agenda of hamas in their so-called holy war against israel. we must therefore find ways now to bypass hamas in the delivery of humanitarian aid to the palestinian people, perhaps through unrwa, ngos etc., and raise the visibility of the european union in the process. we cannot give direct budgetary aid to an unreformed hamas leading the palestinian authority, that is completely unacceptable to the people who vote for me in london.
mr president, funding is threatening the very existence of palestinian institutions and there is a very real risk that they will collapse. teachers and doctors have not been paid for months and it is the palestinian people, civilians, who are paying the price of the eu’s position, which represents a collective punishment against the palestinian people for their democratic choices. not only that, but it is also utterly counter-productive. to suspend funding is to undermine the very political and judicial reforms which the eu has been supporting; to suspend funding is to drive people into the arms of extremists and into the arms of iran in particular, with risks of much greater fundamentalist influence. you talk about principles, but it is vital that the eu is consistent. you cannot make demands of hamas that you do not make of israel. yes, mutual recognition and an end to violence on both sides are urgently needed, but it has to be on both sides. israel has to recognise palestine and to stop its state violence too. so my question to the council is this: in the coming days the israeli government will be formed. will the council ask the new israeli government if it is committed to the roadmap and to the past agreement as presented by the quartet, and will it ask if the israeli government is committed to a cessation of violence against the palestinians, just as we ask hamas to do all in its power to end violence against israel?
i would like to recall the situation of the palestinian people, who are at this time faced with hardships on a scale that we cannot begin to comprehend. the eu decision to end direct funding for the democratically-elected palestinian authority is likely to have disastrous consequences for the delivery of basic services in cash-strapped palestine. as a defender of human rights and an ‘honest broker’ in the middle east the eu should be consistent in its approach to third countries which flout international law. refusal to recognise another state or the rights of its people is a charge of great magnitude. yet it is a charge that could also be directed at the israeli authorities. therefore we should reconsider the decision to suspend gbp 340 million aid to the palestinian authority in the light of the precedent of funding for successive israeli governments. for its part, hamas should recognise that its ability to fulfil its duties and serve the people will be linked to its willingness to renounce violence and recognise the rights of the people of israel. i hope hamas will commit to peaceful means. however, my view is that cooperation is the only viable policy option and that isolation will only exacerbate the desperate conditions in palestine, conditions which give rise to frustrations and violence.
madam president, regrettably, in the last few years, particularly after the last wave of eu enlargement to the current 25 member states, latin america has ceased to be as much in focus politically as it was immediately after, say, the accession of portugal and spain in the 1980s and 1990s. let us hope, however, that the 12 may summit will change all of this. as enp rapporteur i have had to recalibrate and accept that clearly our strategic eu interests have by necessity refocused on our eastern european and caucasus neighbours and our euromed partners, as well as our strategic interests further afield in china and india. nevertheless, to neglect latin america would be at our peril. not only do we share a common cultural heritage and fundamental western values on democracy, human rights and the rule of law – as well as having a small piece of eu territory there in the form of french guiana. however, in the scramble for natural resources we must not for instance allow china to collar the venezuelan oil supplies, for instance, or cease to support the efforts of president uribe and his fight in colombia against the farc drug-dealing marxist terrorists. we face in the region a degree of potential instability now, with the rise of demi-gods such as presidents morales and chavez in bolivia and venezuela respectively, who cosy up to the castro communist dictatorship of cuba and reject western concepts of freedom and democracy. haiti is also a country which also remains lawless and unstable at present. fortunately, the huge recent rise in oil and commodity prices has benefited much of the region, but we should celebrate the success of the mexican and chilean eu free trade agreements and look to extend these to a deal with mercosur, because regional economic integration and multilateralism has to be the way ahead to prevent a breakdown in the fragile stability of the region. personally, i sincerely hope that we can eventually have a euro-latin american free trade area by 2010 as suggested, as the united states of america now seems to have lost all interest in the concept of a free trade area of the americas and instead is doing bilateral deals with individual latin american countries which i think in the longer term will undermine the regional integration which is so important for our latin american friends.
madam president, promoting trade and economic cooperation provides a proper objective of this report, but economic growth in latin america can only be sustained by rigid adherence to the rule of law and respect for human rights. i support what the rapporteur and his party colleagues say in condemning human rights abuse in cuba, but i call on them to be consistent including, yes, in colombia, where the organization of american states has already said that supposedly demobilised paramilitaries are returning to arms. i hope the commissioner will tonight confirm her agreement with the un commissioner for human rights that her office in colombia retain the double mandate, including monitoring, not restricting its duties to simply technical assistance. finally, latin america is europe’s strategic partner. i pay tribute to brazil in contributing to nuclear non-proliferation and to several latin american countries for contributing to peace-keeping operations in haiti, but i also hope that the vienna summit secures support from our latin american partners for a wto round which genuinely targets development, not least because countries from bolivia to honduras to nicaragua are themselves highly indebted poor countries and have most to gain.
mr president, i would like to bring to public attention another example of the european union’s hypocrisy when it comes to addressing environmental matters. it is reported in today’s moscow news that the publicly funded european bank for reconstruction and development is poised to support the highly controversial sakhalin ii project. this proposal to extract oil from the continental shelf off the russian island of sakhalin threatens not only the economy and way of life of the island’s inhabitants, but also poses a potential environmental disaster of alarming proportions. local fishermen and international environmental groups are pleading with the ebrd not to grant a loan of approximately eur 300 million to finance the project. now we see the eu in its true colours, which are by no means green. both the european community and the european investment bank are shareholders in a bank that proposes to finance a project which will have exactly the opposite effect to protecting the environment. this is hypocrisy in its saddest form.
mr president, it has been over a year since king gyanendra of nepal seized absolute power. on behalf of the saarc delegation, may i say how pleased we are that the king has now relented and yesterday agreed to the restoration of democracy. however, this is only the first step towards establishing real peace and lasting democracy. it is absolutely essential that the maoists now become part of the democratic process and renounce violence. i urge them, as the chairwoman of the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia and the south asia association for regional cooperation, to listen and act on this message. over the last three weeks, the world has witnessed intense protests and suffering in nepal and we are very relieved to see that peace is finally being restored to the streets of kathmandu. however, the eu and all the external partners involved in this process must be vigilant that this positive turn of events is a real watershed; this must not be another missed opportunity for democracy in nepal. we will have to watch developments very carefully. i strongly urge the commission, the council and all external partners to take the necessary measures to prevent any possibility of this country relapsing into confusion and violence.
mr president, at the last part-session i revealed the allegation that romano prodi had been an agent of some kind of the kgb. since then, mr prodi has become prime minister of italy. as such, he will be a member of the european council and will have access to confidential information. the kgb – now the fsb – is central for the institutionalised web of organised crime and corruption that dominates russia. it is not possible to resign from the kgb any more than it is from la cosa nostra. therefore, i repeat my request for this parliament to conduct an investigation into these allegations. former senior members of the kgb are willing to testify in such an investigation under the right circumstances. it is not acceptable that this situation is unresolved, given the importance of russia’s relations with the european union. parliament should not be constrained by the fact that former senior communist party members from eastern europe currently sit on the commission.
mr president, whereas there is much to be said about the deficiencies in budgetary discharge here in the eu and within the institutions, i wish to focus on national misuse of eu funding. there is a deception i have to say being perpetrated on both the regions of europe and the eu by some national governments, not least the government of my country, the united kingdom. eu funds are required by article 11 of council regulation (ec) no 1260/1999 to be truly additional, and not deployed to replace domestic funds. yet this is not how eu funds are being applied. i have in my hand a letter from the finance minister in my region which admits that eu funds acquired for northern ireland are diverted instead directly into the uk central exchequer and are thereby used to reduce the level of uk-wide taxation and borrowing that is then necessary. that defeats additionality and cheats a region like mine out of funds intended by europe to provide true additional expenditure there. i would therefore call for the regulation governing the new financial perspective from 2007 to expressly require member states to demonstrate that true additionality is delivered to the regions in whose name funding is claimed from europe. only then will the objective of obtaining genuine economic impact be secured for those regions. this cheating of the regions has gone on for years. now is the time to bring it to an end.
mr president, i congratulate mr mulder on his report, primarily because within this 2004 discharge he continues the momentum that we created in the 2003 discharge about national declarations. the wording within those paragraphs is very significant, especially in paragraph 26, which mentions encouraging national parliaments to be involved in monitoring european union funds. i would hope that the committee on budgetary control will pursue that and encourage our colleagues in national parliaments to have a real dialogue with us on this. i say that because of what the council’s attitude has always been towards this. we have also to congratulate our colleagues on the trialogue who got the agreement within the interinstitutional agreement on the declarations – although they do not use that particular word. however, i am informed – and perhaps mr kallas could confirm this – that five member states have said that they will not comply with what has been agreed in the interinstitutional agreement. among those member states i am told that spain, belgium, germany, france and perhaps italy have said that whatever it says in the iia about giving annual statements, they will not be doing it. it would help if we could have some clarification from the commissioner on that.
mr president, 2006 must be the commissioner’s lucky year! eleven years running with no positive statement of assurance, no signing off of the accounts by the court of auditors and barely a mention of this in this debate, which is much too short and exactly at the wrong time of the day for any interest from other members of the european parliament. but, alas, i have to talk about the hot topic of the day, which is, of course, the city of strasbourg. it is bad enough that we have to migrate with this travelling circus 12 times a year to the city of strasbourg – delightful though the place may be. but to be swindled for the pleasure of doing it is really adding insult to injury. then again, who can blame the city of strasbourg for trying it on with the european parliament? we have hardly shown more than a passing interest in the way that we or other eu institutions spend eu taxpayers’ money. just look at the blasé attitude we take on how money is spent in the committee of the regions, where we have had two internal auditors report problems to us and our action was, and is, to do nothing. we have a track record of ignoring whistleblowers and financial problems alike and we are now faced with this. for the last 27 years it seems we have failed to check whether we have been spending european taxpayers’ money properly. supposedly we, the democratic check of the european union, the pillar of the budgetary authority, have had the wool pulled over our eyes in what is essentially a simple rent scam. for the past few years i have tabled amendments for various reasons to postpone or not sign off the commission’s and parliament’s accounts. i did this because my party at home simply did not believe that taxpayers’ money was being spent properly or accounted for properly. alas, we have been proven to be correct. so what now? i agree so far with the measures taken and i fully agree to the postponement of the report. however, each of us, especially those who have served for more than one term here, should think about our actions or inaction in the past to properly check where money has been spent. this inaction has contributed to this current problem where we have not questioned whether the rent we pay is too high – a simple question really – and one that many of our constituents ask each and every week.
for years the european union in general, and the european commission in particular, have been strongly criticised for shortcomings in financial procedures by member states. it is indeed national governments who actually spend some 80% of the eu budget, and most criticisms of the court of auditors relate to them, rather than to the european institutions. even if the shortcomings of member states relate mainly to delays, incomplete paperwork and suchlike rather than to fraud, the general impression created is damaging, and damaging in practice to the eu rather than to the member states. that is why it is so important to oblige member states to take their responsibilities more seriously, and i welcome the progress made on this point, notably thanks to the parliament using its muscle during the negotiations with the council on the new financial perspectives.
i have serious concerns about the european budgetary procedures and no confidence in this system, but equally no evidence of wrongdoing or mishandling in the majority of cases. the only way to go on this is ‘not proven’. we need real improvement in the transparency of these accounts and in the way the eu administers funding. only when we have a truly transparent system in all eu institutions and over all eu funds can we have full confidence in these accounts. large amounts of european monies are actually spent and accounted for by member states, local authorities and external organisations, not the european institutions – it is this that has left auditors unable to prove that the budget is correct, but equally unable to prove it is not. this is not the same as finding evidence of wrongdoing, and the anti-europeans do the citizens of europe no favours by pretending that it is. there is much in the eu that needs reformed, but it is not all bad.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this programme assumes that research and development activity can be improved by taking tax from individuals and businesses, then paying it back to businesses to be spent on research that would not be otherwise undertaken. is there not something wrong here? if the research work would not otherwise be undertaken, then this is probably because the expected payoff from the research is too small to justify the expenditure. the eu deceives itself into thinking that it knows how to direct funding towards the right kind of innovation. it is more likely to direct the funding into waste and bureaucracy. i have a better plan: tax our businesses less and stop suffocating them with too much regulation and interference. allow them to reap the profits from their good ideas, and i believe we would see an explosion of innovation. we would also see greater employment and economic growth: all the things this place says it wants to achieve but will never learn how to achieve.
rapporteur. – madam president, i want you to imagine a scene: it is a dark and stormy night, it is cold, wet and windy, and you are driving along unfamiliar roads – possibly even lost – when, all of a sudden, something is in your way. you are forced to swerve and you hit a tree, knocking yourself unconscious. at that point, a relatively minor accident could become very serious: you could be in shock, you could develop hypothermia, you could have bleeding which if not stemmed could be fatal. if you are not knocked unconscious, do you know where you are? do you know anything about the emergency 112 number? indeed, do you have a mobile phone or is your battery flat? in all of those circumstances a relatively minor accident could be lethal. that is because of what is known as the golden hour principle: if you receive treatment within the first hour you are more likely not only to have your life saved but also to have a reduction in the intensity of injuries. that is why we need ecall, which is a pan-european in-vehicle emergency call system based on the 112 emergency number. if you have an accident, a device within the vehicle will be triggered by the airbag going off, by a sudden rise in temperature in the car, by the car overturning or by sudden deceleration. when it is triggered it will send data – such as the time, location and identification of the vehicle – to a public safety answering point, which will then alert the emergency services who will come rushing to your aid. this device could also be triggered manually and have a voice call so you could communicate with the emergency services. i know there are some issues about privacy, but let us be clear that this system works only when it is triggered in an accident and is not a device for tracing where you are when you are driving. this came out of the emerge project, which was funded by the fifth framework programme, and i should emphasise that much of the technology is here now and some cars already have it. however, there is no common platform. we need this because 40 000 people are killed on our roads every year and 1.6 million people are injured. the cost is eur 160 billion, or 2% of the eu’s gdp. we hope to halve the number of deaths by 2010. thus ecall is the first building block in the commission’s intelligent car initiative. most measures are designed to stop accidents happening, but accidents will inevitably happen and it is in those circumstances that we need ecall. research has shown that it will reduce the response time in rural areas by 50% and in urban areas by up to 40%. that will save 2500 lives, reduce serious injuries by 15% and so cut road-traffic accident bills by eur 22 billion a year. it will also cut accident-related congestion by about another eur 4 billion a year. therefore, it is a great idea. unfortunately, it is a very complicated idea, because a huge range of stakeholders need to come together – the car industry, the telecoms industry, emergency services, public authorities – to get this introduced on a coherent basis on a common platform. that is why the ecall driving group was set up. it has produced a memorandum of understanding, which binds stakeholders to implement equal and agreed principles and an agreed timetable whereby we will have full-scale tests in 2007, psaps will be upgraded by the end of 2007 and we will introduce this in all new vehicles in 2009. we have over 50 signatures, but unfortunately only seven are from member states and ironically one is from a non-member state – switzerland. if there is no commitment to this scheme from the public authorities it will not happen, because the industry cannot justify the research without the commitment of public authorities. what is needed? we need to publicise 112 as a lot of people do not know about it. this system requires enhanced 112, which involves caller location. member states have an obligation to have it under the 2002 directive, but many of them do not. we need to have psaps upgraded to deal with this. many countries are doing that at the moment, but there is still a long way to go. this will cost money: the device in the car will cost anything from eur 150 to eur 450, but, if done properly, the price will come down. we need the psaps to be upgraded. this will cost about eur 4.5 billion a year. however, set against savings of eur 26 billion, there is a huge cost benefit to this device. my message to you is quite simple: this is a great device, it will save lives, it will save money, but we need the public authorities to get their finger out and get on with this, because they are the ones who are dragging us back. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, mr titley is a good man and this proposal is full of good intention. however, i am against it. i am against it because there are better uses for this level of public expense. the case for the project is overstated and i do not think it is financially credible. in the uk we have a traditional saying ‘necessity is the mother of invention’ and here we have the eu, mother of inefficiency, providing no necessity but forcing a new invention. i believe that you are all looking for new uses to justify the huge cost of the galileo satellite project. what about the additional cost of this project both for the taxpayer and for the motorist? how many false alarms will this ecall system trigger? will it divert the currently under-funded public services from real emergencies? which expensive new service will it call? all this rings alarm bells for me. if you believe britain wastes public money, multiply that inefficiency when considering eu projects like this. this project provokes the expression ‘eu ain’t seen nothing yet’ or even the northern expression ‘ee, did you call?’
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, multilingualism is something that should be encouraged and developed. communication is a necessary and powerful tool. however, despite what the eu and many other charlatans wish to pretend, britain uniquely is a global trading nation of considerable status. thus the languages that should be appearing on the national curriculum – let me emphasise ‘national’ curriculum – should be those of the large and rapidly expanding economies of the world, which, in the case of brazil, is an eu language: portuguese. but the teaching of mandarin or cantonese chinese, arabic, hindi and russian would serve european countries far better than the insular concentration simply on eu languages. the suggested european indicator of competence has its focus only on eu languages. this ignores the real world and illustrates the typical short-sightedness of the eu. it cannot be denied that part of the motivation for the commission’s interest in this is that many, mr chirac included, resent the fact that the lingua franca of business throughout the world, and indeed the european union, is english. people are becoming defensive about the potential erosion of their languages. however, the principal reason why the commission is championing linguistic diversity is not any deep-seated fear that languages and cultures are being eroded, but the knowledge that their ultimate objective, a european federal superstate, is not possible until people can move only to be employable where the jobs are available. the content and organisation of national education systems is an area in which the eu, in theory, has no jurisdiction, and this report highlights why. member states have different priorities, different trading links and traditions, despite the eu’s detrimental attempts to change these. it is for this very reason that any attempt at harmonisational convergence throughout the eu should be opposed. the proposed indicator offers no tangible benefits to a global trading nation, simply one of the many tools to pursue the dreadful objective of a federal europe.
in writing. i voted against the change of name for the iranian delegation not in order to make our relations with iran any more difficult (on the contrary i hope we can have good and positive relations with this country) but simply because i believe parliament should be consistent. if we were to change the name of this delegation we should do the same for all those countries that have complex names. it is established practice that we use the geographic names of counterparts. i am not against revisiting this practice but we should do it for all countries.
in writing. i welcome this report on the unesco convention. the new convention aims to facilitate the development and adoption of cultural policies and appropriate measures for the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions and also to encourage wider international cultural exchanges. the convention acknowledges that cultural diversity is strengthened by the free flow of ideas and reaffirms the importance of freedom of thought and the diversity of the media. i welcome the fact that the convention recognises the distinctive nature of cultural goods and services as transmitters of values and identity and it establishes that they transcend their commercial dimension legitimising thus domestic and international cultural policies.
in writing. i voted not to grant discharge to parliament’s budget, not because of any problem with the administration of parliament itself, but because of the allegations that parliament, and therefore the people of europe, have been ripped off by the city of strasbourg. we have the absurdity of john major’s deal in 1992 during the then british presidency that gave germany the recognition of croatia and the consequent tens of thousands of deaths in the ensuing civil wars. that gave britain an opt-out from the social chapter threatening to deny, before the welcome arrival of tony blair’s labour government coming to the rescue, decent social standards to the people of britain and condemned, at french insistence, parliament to travel in perpetuity to strasbourg, at a cost of eur 400 million a year and the criminal inefficiencies entailed. now we learn on top of all that the city of strasbourg may well have been using the decision to exploit its monopoly to defraud the people of europe.
in writing. i voted against this report in order to give the committee on budgetary control more time to investigate the possible overcharging of the parliament for its buildings in strasbourg. it is vital that a full investigation be held into this highly unsatisfactory situation. parliament must do everything possible to safeguard taxpayers’ money.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the ombudsman. as a member of the committee on petitions i value the work of the ombudsman and believe he carries out his duties effectively and diligently.
in writing. i contribute to this debate as someone who was partly responsible, as parliament’s representative on the council of ministers’ consultative commission on racism and xenophobia from 1994 to 1999, for the establishment of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia. i have no serious quarrel with mr guidoni’s report on this monitoring centre, but i wish to enter reservations about firstly the underfunding of this centre compared to the raft of other centres with what i consider less importance to the people of europe such as translation or training. secondly the commitment without additional funding to widen its remit to human rights, making its already difficult task virtually impossible. i do not believe these events are unconnected with the politics of this institution. some are fellow travellers with racists and xenophobes, while others take the issue far too lightly. i do not see how they can with the rising racism in football, whether in italy, spain or elsewhere, the electoral successes of the far right in france and belgium, italy and denmark, plus the threatened breakthrough in 4 may local elections in britain by our own version of le pen’s front national, the british national party.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting the european centre on racism and xenophobia discharge. it is clear from the report that the centre was diligent in spending its existing resources. however, with racist political parties on the rise and a reported increase in racist incidents there is a strong argument for increasing the centre's funding.
in writing. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. however, with the flow of drugs apparently on the increase and the level of addiction rising particularly among some of europe’s most deprived communities i would like to see the centre raise its profile and make a more significant contribution to tackling these problems.
in writing. i voted to grant discharge to the european medicines agency. i believe the agency has a vital role to play in ensuring that new drugs get to the market safely and with the minimum duplication of effort on the part of individual member states.
in writing. i voted to grant discharge to the european food safety authority. with food scares on the increase the authority has a vital role to play in ensuring both the safety of our food and consumer confidence in the food chain.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues have voted against the parliament’s reports on the budgetary discharge because, for the eleventh year running, the court of auditors has been unable to give a positive statement of assurance of the overall eu accounts. conservatives believe that this must be tackled as a matter of urgency by the commission. there must be a zero tolerance of all cases of mismanagement and fraud and there are three main areas to focus on: first, the new accountancy systems put in place in january 2005 must be monitored closely to ensure that they will deliver world class standards of accounts. second, whistleblowers must not only have their rights vigorously defended, they must be encouraged to come forward. third, the issue that concerned the auditors most was the 80% of the budget that is spent in member states. the commission is responsible for the expenditure of all eu funds but, in reality, the power is delegated to paying agencies in member states. the objective, as the president of the court has suggested, must be the introduction of the principle of making member states responsible for this expenditure.
in writing. the eplp agrees with the general approach of the rapporteur to settle at a balance of regulatory and market needs. the eplp could not agree that the directive needs to be included as a ‘lamfalussy’ type of directive, which was the suggestion of amendment 6.
in writing. i abstained on this report, because i believe the distinction implicitly made here between discovery and innovation both misunderstands the nature of scientific discovery and the economic consequences that follow. if we are to compete in the world of high technology innovation and improve our post-innovative performance from its current lamentable levels compared to our competitors europe must support innovation with public money where appropriate. this report by mrs in 't veld does not accept that analysis limiting state aids, in my opinion, unreasonably. i therefore could not support it.
in writing. i have voted with enthusiasm in favour of this excellent initiative by my colleague gary titley. it proposes a pan-european automatic emergency call system. in the event of a road accident, the ecall device in the vehicle will automatically transmit an emergency call directly to the nearest emergency call centre, providing information on the precise location of the accident. this will result in a dramatic reduction in rescue time and make it possible to treat more injuries in the crucial ‘golden hour’ following the accident. the advantage of this system is not only that it will help save lives but also that it will reduce congestion time and contribute to the efficiency of road transportation in europe with a reduction of external costs. it is an excellent example of the advantages of action at eu level, complementing the common emergency telephone number (112) which i was involved in suggesting when i was a junior civil servant many years ago.
in writing. this report introduces a new system whereby, through the use of digital and satellite technology, emergency services are called directly ‘on impact’ to a car crash. the new system should be installed in all new cars from 2009, saving up to 2 500 lives a year across europe. a sensor in the car is activated by the impact of a collision and sends information on the location, speed and owner of the car through the pan-european emergency number 112 to the nearest police, fire and medical services. i welcome this report as it will save those hundreds of car crash victims who find themselves trapped in their cars and unable to reach their mobile phones because of their injuries. although the smart car system will cost eur 4 billion it will ultimately save eur 26 billion across europe in accident and congestion costs. according to the commission, the smart car system could reduce the numbers of fatalities on the roads by as much as 15%.
mr president, following what you have just announced, i must draw the attention of the house to the fact that there is an oral question to the council on wednesday night’s agenda regarding the energy community treaty, which we are due to debate that night. if the council cannot be there, i suggest we withdraw that item and the discussion of assent to the treaty from the agenda until the council can be present. (applause)
mr president, first i should like to add the support of my group for the statements made by mr schulz and mr poettering in favour of the austrian presidency looking again at its availability. the conference of presidents last week agreed on only two subjects for debate in our regular ‘urgencies’ slot on thursday; normally we debate three. my group put forward a proposal to the conference of presidents that we debate the issue of taiwan’s membership of the world health organisation. that proposal fell because it was not supported by either of the two major groups – the ppe-de group and the pse group. health is widely considered these days to be a human right. it is an issue that needs our discussion and therefore my group wishes to propose to this house that we use the third slot available on thursday afternoon for consideration of the issue of taiwan’s participation in the world health organisation.
(the speaker spoke irish) mr president, a version of the envisaged north of ireland assembly has reconvened today in belfast. the assembly and its power-sharing executive have been suspended by the british government since 2002. sinn féin is committed to seeing local ministers make local decisions. at present, british ministers make all policy decisions in the north of ireland, yet are not accountable to voters there. it is time for ian paisley’s democratic unionist party to move forward with the rest of us, on the basis of equality, to fully restore the north of ireland assembly and the power-sharing executive. the recent sectarian killing of catholic teenager michael mcilveen shows that much change is still needed in our society. continued assistance and support at european level are also needed.
mr president, i should like to ask those in this house to imagine themselves as an 18-year old on holiday in another country. you take a taxi, it turns into a nightmare. there are no witnesses, but the taxi driver ends up dead and you go straight to the first police station. you say he pulled a gun on you and what happened was self-defence on your part. that leads to a legal process lasting 18 years. you spend these 18 years in prison, away from your family, enduring a legal process that goes back and forth, condemning you to death, then finding you innocent, then starting again until every appeal is exhausted and you are finally condemned to death a second time. eighteen years – half your life – in prison, with some of that time on death row, is punishment enough. that is the terrible story of my constituent, mirza tahir hussain, condemned to death early next month. mr president, if there is anything this parliament can do, with its long history of opposition to the death penalty, i implore you to do so by writing to the president of pakistan appealing for clemency.
mr president, each village and town in england has a line around it for planning purposes, stating that it is a defined village or town settlement. however, we are now witnessing the erosion of the traditional communities and destruction of our landscape due to the total disregard for sensible and locally acceptable planning developments. you might ask who is responsible for this. have a guess: the regional assemblies accountable directly to brussels. is this surprising? not at all, when you consider that planning applications and projects are no longer discussed with the people that they affect. to protect england’s precious greenbelt land and to end overdevelopment and towns merging, we have to abolish these unwanted and undemocratic assemblies and return planning issues to where they have been dealt with traditionally: town halls. then, and only then, will our greenbelt land be given the protection and respect it deserves.
mr president, i should like to draw the house’s attention to the fact that this morning in belfast the northern ireland assembly came together, almost three-and-a-half years since it was elected. i should like to ask the president of parliament to send a goodwill message to the speaker of that assembly in view of the difficult role and task she has ahead of her. the european union has always been very supportive of my constituency of northern ireland. mr verheugen, who is here today, played a central role at one stage, a number of years ago. i thank the european parliament and the commission for their support in this regard. i would like to see a democratic, stable assembly in northern ireland, where we make our own decisions for our own people and are able to make those decisions work.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, that is one reputation that i will have to live up to, or should i say live down! my group, too, welcomes the report by mrs kaufmann. we believe it is an excellent report, which has got the balance just about right. the original logic of the treaties, in giving the right of initiative to the commission – in those days the commission proposed and the council disposed – was entirely right for that time. we wanted the council to work not on the basis of competing drafts put forward by different member states, but on a common proposal drawn up by an institution that belongs to all of us – the commission – and that is duty bound to serve the interests of all member states in the proposals that it brings forward. it was then up to the council alone to look at that proposal, modify it if necessary, accept it or otherwise. there was a certain balance. since the original treaties, though, we have seen the emergence of this parliament, which was first directly elected in 1979 and more recently has acquired co-legislative powers. because of their national experience, people in most of our member states expect that a parliament will have the right of initiative, that its members can propose legislation and that when they stand for election they say they will propose this or that. that is lacking in the european parliament. it is true that it is lacking in some national parliaments as well and many parliaments have that right in theory, but it is not exercised in practice. nonetheless it is something our citizens expect. so how have we tried to resolve that at european level? the maastricht treaty gave this parliament the right – and the council already had the same right – to ask the commission to bring forward a legislative proposal. in practice that has usually worked quite well. now the commission has told us that it will also listen very carefully to parliament and consult us before it withdraws proposals. i welcome that sort of not quite sharing but working closely together on the right of initiative, as regards both proposing and withdrawing. i believe the commission listened to us quite carefully on this recent package, although not, i regret to say, on the proposals regarding mutuals and the european statute for associations. there i believe the commission should review its position. but on the whole i believe the system has worked quite well. if the commission is going to be able to defend its monopoly on the right of initiative, it must continue to exercise it in that responsible way, to maintain a dialogue with parliament and take up the legitimate concerns expressed in this parliament. the commission must also accept that its right to withdraw should not be a right of veto at the last stage of the legislative procedure. the right to withdraw should exist right up to the end of the first reading in each body, parliament and then the council. once the council has reached a common position and it comes back to parliament, it is no longer the property of the commission. it is a council common position that we will be dealing with, and so on through the rest of the legislative procedure. the commission will still play a role, but should not at that stage have the right of withdrawal, which would unbalance the system. it should have it in the first stages, as it does. i welcome what has been put forward by our committee. it is a good balance in that it proposes that there be due justification, due dialogue, proper consultation and advance notice. if we can work together on that basis, i believe that is a reasonably correct balance in the context of the current treaties.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mrs scheele and mrs poli bortone, for all the work they have done on these two very important reports. as with the other speakers, my remarks concern the report on nutritional and health claims. this is an issue on which i am pleased to say parliament has performed a great u-turn. this time last year this house voted by a majority to follow the industry line and deleted elements which were absolutely central to the effectiveness of this legislation. the purpose of the whole proposal was almost totally undermined, but now, at second reading, we have been able to reach a compromise agreement, as the rapporteur said, which reinstates the crucial points and takes us much closer to our original aim: to outlaw untrue and misleading health and nutrition claims on food that deceive consumers into thinking that those foods are good for them when they are not. the verts/ale group has supported the system of authorising claims through an effective and efficient process. we have supported clear labelling, consumer involvement, banning health or nutritional claims on alcoholic drinks, as others have mentioned, and many of the other items on which we will be voting tomorrow. this new law will make a big difference to people’s everyday lives, because food is a very political issue. what can be more political than people being able to choose what food they eat? people have a right to be confident that labels on food mean what they say. it is not just a question of honesty on the part of food companies; it is also a question of health. people are much more aware nowadays of the need for a healthy, balanced diet and they are much more careful about the food they buy. food manufacturers spend a thousand times more on marketing than governments spend on fighting obesity. it is time we redressed that balance, and tightening these rules will play a part in that.
mr president, the previous debate in this chamber was about the screening of proposals for legislation. i suspect that if that had been in force before this health claims proposal came up, this one might have fallen at the first hurdle. in fact it nearly did fall at the first parliamentary hurdle and for that reason i congratulate our rapporteur and our shadow rapporteurs who worked with the commission officials to improve the original proposal. that is why we feel able to support the compromise tomorrow. however, we are still legislating in the dark when it comes to nutrient profiling, and that is not a good way of legislating. we do not know how this will be achieved; we do not know how efsa will run it. we have to rely on the experts sorting it out after this measure has left this parliament, and whatever they sort out will not come back to this parliament for approval, so that is not good legislation. nevertheless, i think we can say that what consumers want – and they are the only vested interest that matters – is confidence in the terminology of claims, such as low salt, high in polyunsaturates, and so on. we want to make sure that negatives are not concealed behind positives and we want to make sure that the whole picture is honestly portrayed. ultimately, any claim must stand up in court based on the science which purports to support it. so, i think we have made progress on those issues. we have removed some of the health claim anomalies – not least, may i say, on light ale, which no more claimed that people would become light than a cough sweet claims that people will cough. we hope that the council will agree to our amendments because we want sensible information in sensible format, which will lead to a better chance of people choosing a healthy diet and thus enhancing their own health and that of their families.
mr president, i am going to speak on the report by mrs poli bortone. i welcome this legislation because we need it. just look around the shelves in supermarkets and see what is claimed on so many products, including an increasing range of sweets and confectionery – some of those claims are frankly absurd. we have heard again tonight people in this house claiming that we do not need this legislation, that it is about the nanny state. however, what on earth can be wrong with asking manufacturers who make health and nutritional claims to give the scientific evidence for those claims? a recent survey carried out in my region by the national consumers’ association, which, showed that 99% of people want health claims on food checked before the food goes on sale. indeed, many are quite surprised to find that the claims are not checked properly. we have heard a lot of talk about article 4, with people saying that we do not need it, that nutritional profiling cannot be done. of course nutritional profiling can be done: experts have done it and it is being done in the united states. we must move away from the idea of banning this or that. nothing will be banned, but what you will not be able to do is to make a claim for a food substance if it is clearly not a healthy option for people. as my colleague mrs westlund said, people are fed up with buying so-called low-fat products only to discover by reading very carefully that they are high in sugar or some other ingredients. this legislation will mean that all claims should be based on sound and solid evidence. responsible retailers and manufacturers i have met welcome it. we seem to forget that without european standards we will have a plethora of national standards, and that is not good news for business. this is good for business, it is good for consumers and we should welcome it.
mr president, this is just another piece of legislation that seeks to increase the authority of the eu over member states. we already have directive 2002/46/ec, which requires safe upper levels for food supplements. however, those limits have not yet been published. a better example of eu incompetence would be hard to find. despite this, the eu juggernaut carries on with its overbearing legislation, which only serves to destroy small businesses and removes freedom of choice from the consumer. the uk has had enough of this misinformed interference. at present there is private members’ bill going through westminster, calling for the uk to be freed from the directive i mentioned relating to food supplements. i hope it succeeds and thus sets a precedent that is the beginning of the end in the uk for the authority of these damaging and unnecessary regulations. that would be a significant step towards the uk’s withdrawal from the european union.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – (the speaker spoke irish)i welcome commissioner borg’s comments this evening on the sensible proposals put forward in the report with regard to closure and member states’ abilities in this respect. i certainly hope that commissioner mandelson can move on the international trade aspect. the glass eel is particularly vulnerable, since large quantities of glass eels are exported to south-east asia, and this has consequences for the industry as a whole. today’s report contains very sensible proposals. in my own constituency, the lough neagh fishermen’s cooperative society has taken great care over the years to manage the fishery in such a way as to conserve stocks, and i will continue to commend this to the commission and parliament as a model of best practice, which should be supported at both national and eu level.
you began your speech in irish, which becomes an official language of the eu next january, so you were anticipating that event.
mr president, it is important to point out and to remember that river and inland fishing is not a competence of the eu, yet here we have in essence a proposal for eel management, which, in effect, asserts eu control over inland waters. so there is a question as to whether aspects of this proposal are ultra vires. within northern ireland we have the largest commercial wild-eel fishery in europe, centred on lough neagh and the lower river bann. it supplies quality eels to much of europe, particularly northern europe. efficiently run, it has been meeting its ecological obligations by already ensuring sufficient escapement of mature eels for spawning, and, at its own cost, funding restocking with junior eels. it would be absurd if it were now to be subjected to punitive restrictions because the greed and practices of others elsewhere in europe have radically diminished european stocks. the main cause of stock reduction is the export of elvers to the far east. last year, france alone exported eight tonnes of elvers. i therefore welcome the report’s attempts to curb this exporting of the future of the european eel industry. i also welcome moves to insist that eel farms should guarantee a percentage escapement of mature eels. all have a part to play in the recovery of the biomass, but particularly those who have to date squandered our resources. i strongly support the rejection of a 15-day closure per month and i favour eel management plans that are specific to each individual river basin, rather than established on a national basis. i believe that will enable areas such as mine, which have looked after their product well and properly, to continue and to avoid draconian and unnecessary restrictions. that self-regulation and control should be an example to others. i hope that under the eff there will be restocking funding available and that it can be taken up.
mr president, i welcome mr maat's report on eels, because i believe that we need to take action. the biggest problem is the fishing of elvers. the problem is that they are so valuable, probably as valuable as gold, and for this reason people collect them. if we could reduce the number of elvers being taken, then we would build up the eel population. on my own farm, people sometimes fish illegally by letting fresh water out into the salt water to attract the elvers and then catch them. it is not always easy to catch the people who are catching the elvers. we need to control the quantity of elvers sold in each member state. these elvers are collected in tanks in local towns and villages and it should not be too difficult for the authorities to clamp down on where they are being sold. it is a good idea to rejuvenate stocks and give money for this purpose. however, it is much more sensible to allow the wild elvers coming back from the sea to swim up the rivers and develop into large eels. then we can either catch them and eat them as whole eels or use them to replenish the stocks. the problem is not the lack of eels but the fact that we catch them when they are very small. i welcome this report, because it is time that we took action. otherwise we will be talking here for so long that by the time we have finished there will be no eels – either elvers or mature eels – left for us to catch.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30. written statement (rule 142)
the next item is the report by daniel varela suanzes-carpegna, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco (com(2005)0692 – c6-0040/2006 – 2005/0280(cns)) (a6-0163/2006).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, the alde group has continuing difficulties with the whole range of third country fisheries agreements, although we acknowledge that the new partnership model is an improvement on what went before. the agreement with morocco creates particular problems, given the situation of the people of western sahara. whilst the prevailing legal advice is that the agreement is not, on the face of it, in contravention of international law, there is a clear risk of the breach of peremptory norms in its implementation. that is why, at committee stage, we proposed amendments intended to build safeguards into the regulation. these make approval of the agreement subject to its being operated in conformity with international law, insist on that operation being closely monitored and require a suspension if there is evidence of breach. as included in the report, these provisions afford protections that would otherwise be sadly lacking. we are grateful to the rapporteur for his sensitivity to the issues and for the compromise reached, as also for the support afforded to the whole set of amendments in committee. i know, however, that many colleagues would have preferred a different outcome. i would like to reassure those who are uneasy about the mention of western sahara in the recital that it only recognises the fact of occupation and does not in any way imply its legitimacy. i can understand, too, the motivation of those who would like to see the waters adjacent to western sahara excluded from the agreement altogether, but i have to point out that this would have the paradoxical effect of depriving its people of the right to any financial benefit from the agreement, whilst not actually giving them greater security with regard to natural resources. i conclude, though, by saying to the commission and the council that, however members of this parliament individually approach tomorrow’s vote, concern for the people of western sahara is felt across parliament as a whole. please take heed of that.
mr president, i have become increasingly sceptical over the years i have been here about the value of fishing agreements in general: usually only a few of our member states benefit, while all our taxpayers foot the bill. i am far from confident that the european union can properly monitor fishing activity in these agreements or guarantee that our money ends up where it should. however, this agreement has an added dimension: the absolute right of a people to self-determination, the right, in this case, of the saharawi people to control their own resources. we should not be signing up to any deal with morocco that leaves any doubt whatsoever whether western saharan waters can be included by the moroccan government. if amendments 14 to 18, restricting the agreement to moroccan waters only, are approved – amendments which my group and i have signed – i would consider supporting this report, otherwise i would have to reject it.
i thank the commissioner, all the speakers and the chairman of the committee for their presence throughout these debates. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30.
mr president, yesterday evening you announced to parliament that the council was not going to be present after 7 p.m. tomorrow evening. according to our agenda, after 9 p.m. tomorrow evening we are due to debate whether to grant a cent to the energy community treaty and put an oral question to the council with regard to this treaty. if the council is unable, or unwilling, to be present to answer this oral question, i see little point in considering either the treaty or the oral question. i ask you, therefore, to gain an assurance from the council that it will be present. otherwise i will move that we defer this item until the next part-session of parliament.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, oh dear, oh dear, oh dear! what a sad, inward-looking, almost ostrich-like speech that was from commissioner wallström. i can only conclude that plan d stands for ‘delusional’. you really ought to get out more, because it seems to me that you are surrounded by commissioners, officials, sycophants and parliamentarians here, who clearly do not represent the view of at least half the citizens of europe. mr barroso himself is no better, because when he is not working in the commission he is off on luxury yachts, holidaying with the super-rich. i think perhaps i have a remedy for you. i should like to invite you, commissioner wallström, to come to my local pub one sunday lunchtime and meet some real people. i can do even better than that: i could invite you to the oval to watch a test match. come and watch some cricket and, again, meet some real people! if you do not have time for any of that, you could read your own eurobarometer poll, which shows that less than half the citizens of europe now think that the european union is doing a good job. you are ignoring all these things; in fact, you are developing a bunker mentality, and perhaps that is a good thing, because at least it shows that the end is in sight! an organisation with any sense of honour would have respected the french and dutch referendum results and there would have been a complete halt to further integration. instead, you have all conspired against the french and dutch people; you have conspired against your own rules, when you said here that it would have to be unanimous, and you are pressing on with this crazy project. the gap between the political classes and the real peoples of europe is getting wider by the day. shame on all of you!
mr president, the paper ‘citizens’ agenda: delivering results for europe’ is to be welcomed in the emphasis placed on policy delivery rather than on institutional grand designs. even if i do not agree with all the proposed solutions, in particular i welcome the commitment to a comprehensive review of the single market. i hope that this review will be heavily accentuated towards the opening of markets, liberalisation and tearing down economic barriers that still exist in europe. i know that the president of the commission is personally committed – as i am – to economic reform and liberalisation as the only way of ensuring growth and greater prosperity. i do not, however, welcome the proposed agenda in the field of justice and home affairs. it is true that people in europe want to see greater cooperation between member states to combat and defeat the threats we all face in the modern world – particularly terrorism – but i want to see more intergovernmental coordination in tackling crime and terrorism, rather than trying to make such issues the subject of qualified majority voting. they are matters that go to the very heart of the nation state and its responsibilities to its citizens in each case. the national veto should remain in those areas. the british government is currently playing with fire in its ambivalence on the subject. instead, i urge the commission to concentrate on delivering the economic reform agenda. people in europe want action; they want action on growth and they want action on jobs. there is no appetite for endless debate on constitutional, institutional structures. they do not want grand projects that erode the sovereignty of their nations or affect their chances of getting a job. so my message to the leaders for the june summit has to be simple: they should focus on people’s priorities, particularly the plight of the 18 million who have no job in the union. there is nothing for them in the current european constitution. europe needs to demonstrate clearly and unambiguously that it has learned some lessons from the votes on that. it needs to show that it is ready to move on to an ambitious reform programme that tackles those very issues that i referred to of low growth, high unemployment and threats to our environment. the social model needs to be reformed drastically. how can one speak of a social model that consigns so many to the misery of joblessness? my opposition to the constitution currently is not based on dogma, but it is known – as far as i am aware – that it would not be good for the people of europe. i believe that is what the people of europe have said, particularly in france and the netherlands. the time has now come for the governments of europe to wake up. we need reform. we need to be accountable, more transparent, and we need to reform priorities. we need to respond to the wishes and needs of the citizens, which was what we were charged to do at laeken and where we have, unfortunately, currently failed the test. as we move forwards to an eu of 27, let us celebrate the diversity of the modern european union; let us harness that diversity to work together for a true europe of nation states.
mr president, what we learned from the dutch and french referenda was that many people, sadly, see the eu as part of the threat of globalisation, rather than offering a safe haven from its colder winds. we need to stress how the eu offers both security in the classic sense and an internal strengthening and dynamism, which makes us able to compete in the world and deliver prosperity. the commission action on mobile roaming charges is excellent, by the way. i want to concentrate on security in the justice field. the single most visible demonstration of the eu’s usefulness to my london constituents that i have experienced came last summer. under european arrest warrants, a suspected murderer was brought back from latvia in four weeks and a suspected terrorist back from italy in six weeks. that was a real illustration of the eu delivering the increased security from crime and terrorism our citizens want. the british conservatives, incidentally, are playing a weak hand on law and order in opposing the european arrest warrant. so i strongly support president barroso’s push to improve decision-making on justice matters, with laws on police and judicial cooperation and legal migration progressed through more effective and democratic and open methods. but the eu should also be united, solid and active on human rights. there is a lot of support for the eu playing a strong role in the world, promoting peace, democracy and the rule of law. but there has never been a council common position or joint action under the csfp calling for the closure of guantánamo bay or even just for the return of our own citizens and residents. recently, our temporary committee on extraordinary rendition heard javier solana say he had no power to check whether member states were upholding their human rights commitments. i said that this conveyed a pathetic image of the eu. now tony blair, far from leading a national debate on the benefits of europe, is conniving disgracefully in a dangerous and populist attack by conservatives and the media on the european convention on human rights. let us concentrate on delivering a real citizens’ europe, security from terrorism and organised crime and from abuses of fundamental rights and discrimination, and promotion of europe’s soft power in the world.
mr president, i welcome the commission’s plan d. we need debates and i know from experience in my country that the more people are informed about the european union, the more positive they tend to be with regard to it. that is why people like nigel farage and ukip have consistently opposed plan d, the funding of it and its stimulation of debates about europe. they want people to rely on their ill-informed prejudices about europe. we must counter that. we must stimulate the widest possible debate. i think it is right for the debate on the future of europe to be prolonged. we need at least another year. we need wider and deeper reflection. it is right to say that so far the reflection has been less about the text and more about the context. however, we also know that we will, in due course, have to address what to do about this text. the debate will need more structuring and more focus, perhaps along the lines on which mr méndez de vigo and mr stubb spoke just now. we will have to address this issue. it is far too simplistic to say, as mr farage and mr kirkhope did, that the people have spoken and they have spoken against the constitution. that is simply not true. we have different answers across europe. a majority supports this constitution, even in countries which held referendums. if you add all the referendums together, more people voted ‘yes’ than voted ‘no’. overall, as commission wallström said, we will soon have 16 states in favour. in fact, if you add romania and bulgaria, 18 ratifications will be in the bag by the end of next month. that is going on. it is a question of divergence, not opposition to the constitution. when we have divergence in this union, we talk it through to find a solution to make it acceptable to everyone, recognising the majority trend and trying to find out what adjustments might be necessary to make the minority able to accept it as well. we have a duty to the minority to talk it through and find a compromise, but we cannot ignore the will of the majority either.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i will be brief. i would like to begin by thanking mr rack and your committee on transport and tourism, as well as the whole of parliament, for the work which has been done to enable the proposal to be adopted at first reading. the commission endorses the compromise reached in the informal trilogue with the council. the commission accepts the amendments voted by the committee on transport and tourism, which confirm the council's position, and the new compromise amendments proposed by mr rack and supported by the various political groups. they reflect the compromise reached in the informal trilogue with the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was struck by the convergence of views expressed by the various speakers. we are determined to avoid the dangers and risks of a steady increase in road traffic on europe's motorways and roads. to achieve this, we must actively promote, particularly through the marco polo ii programme, all the alternative formulas: motorways of the sea, inland waterways and a railway network that is truly european in scale. i share your regret, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not have more financial resources, but as one of you said, i believe that we must make the best of the resources we have. i therefore hope that, thanks to the incentives provided for by marco polo ii, we can achieve positive results. i would add that this same philosophy will be the inspiration for our choices of programmes for transeuropean networks. thank you again, ladies and gentlemen, for your good work.
the next item is the vote. (for results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mr president, i wish to raise a point under rule 151(3) of the rules of procedure. i wonder whether you can help me. should you declare amendments 8 and 16 of this doorn report inadmissible, since the treaty of nice is the only treaty that is in force? there is no such thing as the ‘constitutional treaty’. although there are many here who wish to forget that, the french and dutch voted ‘no’ in their referendums. no treaty has replaced the treaty of nice. these amendments should therefore be declared inadmissible. (applause from the ind/dem group)
i am sorry, mr bloom. i got your name wrong. i called you mr berlato. i apologise. how could i have failed to recognise you? (laughter)your point is essentially political and very well made. we all take note of it, thank you.
we now resume the vote.
that concludes the vote.
in writing. i welcome this report, which should lead to more honest and understandable food labelling. it should also make it difficult for companies to brand their products in a misleading way.
in writing. labour meps welcome today's agreement on nutrition and health labelling of foods. we accept that this is a compromise package and there are some elements, particularly on amendment 66, where we have reservations. we would have preferred the common position text, which allowed no derogations. however, the new law represents a major step forward in food labelling for consumers and improves the overall regulatory framework. it is on this basis that we supported the compromise package.
in writing. i welcome this report on the measures needed to protect the elver industry in europe. changing tastes and a collapse in stock have transformed what was a local, cheap seasonal delicacy into a luxury product, almost exclusively for export to the far east. the life-cycle of elvers is still not properly understood with gluts and shortages alternating in a not fully understood pattern. yet the drop of stock levels over past decades seems to be outside the normal range of variation. if action is not taken, this small but locally important industry may die. i support the restriction on fishing, while agreeing with the commission the need to identify when bans will fall needs investigation, as yields vary with the phases of the moon and not days of the month. i also support limits on exports to protect stocks, which i am sure the wto will support, and financial help from the eu to ensure rivers remain open for the passage of elvers. we may have to revisit this issue in future, but at least we are finally taking some action.
in writing. i voted today against the ec-morocco partnership agreement on fisheries because i am not satisfied that all steps were taken in respect of this agreement, which could and should have been taken to protect the sovereignty and rights of western sahara. instead, intended ambiguity prevails so as to facilitate morocco's abuse of western saharan waters and to avoid facing up to its illegal claim to the territory.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party is concerned over the impact of the proposed fisheries agreement on the position of western sahara and the prospects for resolving that long-running conflict. for this reason labour meps supported the amendments that would exclude western sahara from the scope of the agreement and voted against the agreement when the exclusion amendments fell.
in writing. i voted against the ec-morocco fishing deal because the people of western sahara are still under moroccan occupation and have had no say over the agreement which allows fishing in their territorial waters. i believe that the saharawi people should have rights over their territorial waters. it is for this reason that the ec-morocco fish agreement should not include the waters of western sahara, as the people have no power to opt in or out of the agreement. i do not support an agreement on trade that violates the rights of other communities to determine the use of their own resources.
in writing. in voting on this report i am extremely concerned about the impact of the proposed fisheries agreement on the position of western sahara and the prospects of resolving that long-running conflict. this is a campaign which some of my london constituents have been working with me on, under the guidance of the uk-based war on want charity. for this reason i supported amendments that would exclude western sahara from the scope of the agreement and voted against the agreement when the exclusion amendments fell.
in writing. mr president, the plight of the people of the western sahara will not be improved by the exporting of our own disastrous fisheries policies to their territory, under illegal occupation by morocco. it is a poor show that the eu, usually a guardian of the rule of law, is in this case using technicalities and weasel words to justify making ourselves in effect complicit in an illegal occupation. i voted against this poor report and am saddened that the house approved it.
in writing. mr president, i congratulate my group colleague mrs frassoni on this excellent report, which while perhaps not the talk of the town nonetheless deals with a crucial area of the union's competence. it contains a number of sensible proposals to make our law making more effective in terms of how it actually affects our citizens, which at this time of increasing scepticism over the workings of the eu is often not paid sufficient attention, and i was pleased to support her today.
in writing. mr president, i congratulate mr doorn on this report as i believe subsidiarity, properly applied, could make the workings of the eu so much more transparent to the citizen. coming from scotland, it saddens me that the scottish parliament is responsible for so many areas of life yet is effectively shut out of the eu deliberations as the definition of subsidiarity too often effectively stops at the member state capital. i believe this report represents a step forward, but we in the eu still have our work to do.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to pay tribute to commissioner rehn for his balanced and thorough assessment and his competent handling of this dossier. i also commend anca boagiu and meglena kuneva and their predecessors as ministers for eu integration for their unstinting hard work. the author mark twain observed, ‘we can change the world or ourselves, but the latter is more difficult’. tearing down the berlin wall was the easy part. building a new democratic culture takes much longer. but the bricks of effort and the mortar of persistence are working. the decision to proceed in 2007, with appropriate provisos, is the right one. the commission should not, in my group’s view, revisit its decision in the autumn, except in the gravest of circumstances. we are concerned that romania and bulgaria should be judged no more or less harshly than previous newcomers. our monitoring must be in line with current treaty provisions and legislation in force. we therefore take very seriously the commission’s expression of serious concern about continuing corruption and failure of the rule of law – areas which need urgent further action. ill treatment of romany people, too, continues to offend, which is why the decade of roma inclusion launched by six heads of state and government is so important. in many other areas the commission identifies failings. these must be put right without delay. but accession cannot be an examination in which candidates fail. for failure would be at least as much a failure of the union as of the candidate states. what is most important to the health of a society is the direction in which its face is set. bulgaria and romania are looking and moving in the right direction. can that be said of all current member states? imagine, colleagues, that last autumn romania’s interior minister had proposed detention of suspects for three months without charge or that the bulgarian prime minister had used the secret services to spy on his colleagues. there would have been outrage. my group has always been wary of those who would pander to the fashionable anxiety about enlargement, making strangers of peoples who will soon be fellow citizens. i was delighted, therefore, to hear that mr poettering has defied some in his own party and thrown his weight firmly behind future enlargement. it gives added salience to his group’s decision to meet last week in a city called split. i appeal to the faint hearts on the right to look at what has been achieved. has not enlargement been the european union’s greatest success story, its crown jewels? commissioner spidla’s report on transitional arrangements shows that enlargement has brought more jobs and higher economic growth, particularly in those countries that gave open access to their labour markets. but far beyond economic considerations, welcoming new members has enriched the culture of our union. bulgaria and romania will be treasured assets, if only we give them half a chance. it seems that many of their people believe it is all a matter for government. on the contrary, winning the war against crime and corruption is a matter for each and every citizen. so i urge all bulgarians and romanians to work together with government to ensure the best possible outcome and avoid any delay to entry, not least because reform demanded to join the union is the means to raise standards of living, quality of life, and security at home. i urge all colleagues in this house to show solidarity and demonstrate to the bulgarians and the romanians that they do not walk alone. (applause)
mr president, i am delighted that i do not have to play cards against mr rehn, because he holds his cards so close to his chest and plays his trump card – his last card – at the very last minute! mercifully, in this instance, he is playing the cards on behalf of romania and bulgaria. he is willing them to win and it is absolutely clear that they are going to do so. i am confident that 1 january 2007 will be d-day – delivery day – for romania and bulgaria, when they will receive full membership of the european union. in fact, i am so confident that on 31 december 2006 i shall be buying my ticket to bucharest in romania. i want to thank and pay tribute to fokion fotiadis and to jonathan scheele, who succeeded him at the commission delegation in bucharest, to mr rehn himself and to mr verheugen, his predecessor. they have taken up the task of working hard to get both countries into the union, fighting corruption and human trafficking, addressing all the different issues regarding the free market, the rule of law and transparency: everything that has been mentioned so many times over the last six and a half years that is now coming true. it is a hugely exciting moment. i am so pleased to have been able to work alongside several romanian prime ministers, including the current prime minister, mr tariceanu, several presidents, including the current head-of-state, president basescu, as well as a huge variety of members of parliament. here today in the distinguished visitors’ gallery are alin teodorescu, as well as the secretary of state for adoptions, theodora bertzi, gabriela coman, responsible for child protection, and, of course, the minister for europe, mrs boagiu. all are so welcome and now they are to become our permanent brothers and sisters inside the union. inevitably, there are problems. the geographical location of both countries makes them vulnerable, particularly to trafficking, from eastern europe especially and from russia. romania and bulgaria were highlighted in the un human trafficking report last week. it is true that there is more to be done and there always will be more to be done, but within moments they will be here beside us and they will be full members. i thank the commissioner for all his work. (applause)
mr president, i should like to thank commissioner rehn for the serious way in which bulgaria’s progress towards accession is being monitored. according to the accession treaty, bulgaria will accede on 1 january 2007 unless the council unanimously decides, on a commission recommendation, to postpone entry for one year. the commission has made no such recommendation. let us be clear on this. bulgaria fulfils the political criteria for membership, she has a functioning market economy, economic progress has been maintained and the bulgarian unemployment rate, while still high, is now lower than that of germany. in relation to other matters, i note that the 16 areas marked as of serious concern in october have now been reduced to 6. of course, these must not in any way be underestimated. firstly, there is the need for more effective action against organised crime, fraud and corruption. that is the area that most perturbs the people of bulgaria as well as our own citizens. there has been progress since october. i spoke about that in this house last month, but many of the crime bosses are still at large and there is concern about how far their tentacles spread. over the coming months, we need to see dramatic results as well as further steps to improve the effectiveness and resources of the police, investigative and judicial services. the commission must specify more precisely what outcomes are required. secondly, not unrelated to the first point, is the need for strengthened financial controls for the future use of structural funds. that is vitally important. there must not be any possibility of what is effectively our taxpayers’ money going into the wrong hands or being wasted. as we have seen from the court of auditors’ consistent refusal to sign off the eu accounts, it is an area where the eu itself needs to put its house in order. it is up to the commission to ensure that effective financial management structures to guarantee the integrity of the funding system are in place and, if necessary, to withhold funding until that is the case. i believe that the european council, at its summit in june 2006, should endorse the decision for the accession of bulgaria on 1 january 2007, at the same time confirming the remedial action that is required of bulgaria in the months ahead and the nature of possible post-accession monitoring. in other words, it is ‘yes ... but’! to a certain extent, i believe that is what the commission is trying to say. for its part, the bulgarian government must take urgent action to deliver tangible results, particularly in the fight against organised crime. much has been achieved in the last six months. it is vitally important that even better results are delivered in the next six months.
mr president, well, isn’t it all lovely? virtually everybody agrees – the commission, the group leaders in parliament – that it is jolly good that two more countries are joining. but could we please stop this farcical pretence that it has got anything to do with the criteria of dealing with the justice system or them fulfilling the acquis communautaire. romania and bulgaria will join on 1 january next year for political reasons. this has to happen, because you need a diversion. the peoples of europe have lost confidence in you and in these institutions. all today’s statement represents is a victory for the political classes, the classes in the european union who want this to be a world superpower to take on the united states of america, and of course a huge victory for the politicians in romania and bulgaria, who will enrich themselves enormously and give themselves jobs in perpetuity. so welcome to romania and bulgaria; let us welcome their politicians onto the eu gravy train. but what of the implications for the rest of us? well, i am all for free trade. i am all for the free movement of goods and services. i am all for us having the opportunity to work in each other’s countries, but to have an open-door immigration policy between countries with differing gdps is madness. already britain has taken in over a third of a million people from the ten countries that joined in 2004 and it is now estimated by migration watch in the united kingdom that when bulgaria and romania join we will take in another third of a million over the next three years. our public services simply cannot stand mass migration on that scale, and romania and bulgaria will lose many of their brightest and best young people into the bargain. so you may have your diversion today, commissioner, but the eu is failing, public confidence is falling and it will all end in tears. (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, enlargement is truly one of the great stories of the eu. the fifth wave, which enlarged the union to 25 member states in 2004, has actually been a great success, in spite of many dire warnings that the union would be paralysed without a constitution and that countries such as mine would suffer unsustainable immigration flows, including from the roma population. the new member states have, broadly speaking, become more atlanticist, they believe in free markets and low taxation as an approach, which i welcome. i believe that the accession of romania and bulgaria, which is really the fifth-and-a-half wave as initially they were supposed to join at the same time as the other 10 new member states, will also prove to be a great success. i still believe that the carrot of eu membership has proven the great driver of economic and political reform. nevertheless, i do not underestimate the scale of the tasks that will face those two countries after joining in 2007. there is still a need for them to not lower their guards against public corruption, and some high-level indictments and convictions will certainly be a powerful example to deter further corruption. the problem of organised crime has been mentioned – people trafficking and drug trafficking are still serious issues. bulgaria seems to have made less progress, with a spate of horrendous mafia-style contract killings, which are of major concern to all of us. it is fair to say that organised crime is still a problem, even in some of our current member states, such as southern italy. that in itself cannot be a cause to delay romanian and bulgarian accession any further, although there is a case to be made for invoking the one-year safeguard clauses in regard to particular chapters such as justice and home affairs. let me raise two specific issues. firstly, i call on romania to settle its outstanding maritime border dispute with ukraine over snake island. ukraine, hopefully, will also be a member state of the european union one day. secondly, i call upon the romanian government to reconsider its absolute ban on inter-country adoptions.
commissioner, i have a personal dilemma: i represent a country that is pro-enlargement but a region that is urging me to vote against bulgarian membership. why? because my constituent, michael shields, is serving a ten-year sentence for a violent attack of which he continues to maintain he is innocent. the bulgarian criminal justice system has not given michael a fair trial. his only recourse is to take his case to the european court of human rights in strasbourg. when new defence evidence came forward, it was ignored by the bulgarian authorities; when another liverpool man confessed to the crime, it was disregarded by the bulgarians. i urge the bulgarian authorities to restore our faith in their criminal justice system. i urge the commissioner to ask the authorities to take up the offer of assistance by the uk to interview witnesses and examine pre- and post-trial evidence that was rejected in his appeal. any eu member states, including mine, can make mistakes. the true test of a democracy is the will to redress any potential wrongs and ensure that real justice is served. commissioner, i will send you a copy of this independent documentary, which shows that my constituent did not have a fair trial and that there was a severe problem with the police investigation.
member of the commission. the deadline for the transposition of the unfair commercial practices directive into national law is 12 june 2007, and the new laws must be applicable in the member states from 12 december 2007. in accordance with the better regulation principles, the commission will work closely with the member states during this transposition period in order to facilitate timely and correct dispositions and uniform applications. i hope that answers the honourable member’s question.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament. the un convention on the rights of the child provides that the state shall provide substitute care for a child temporarily or permanently deprived of his or her family environment or who cannot be left in that environment in his or her own interest. the convention also encourages the use of alternatives to institutionalization whenever such alternatives are available. there are a number of reasons why children are in institutions away from their families. this may be because the parents are unable to care for them because of illness, death, or a sentence of imprisonment, or because the children in such facilities are protected from abuse or neglect, or because the disabled or sick children are given proper care in such facilities. children may also be placed there for reasons of delinquency, anti-social behaviour or criminal activity. the common feature of these groups is that they are often at very high risk of social exclusion and that a great deal of effort is needed to prevent their exclusion and poverty from becoming permanent. the necessary support should also be provided for their proper development and integration into society. at present, it is difficult to get an accurate picture of the use of institutional care in europe, as comparable data are lacking. however, the commission noted that a large proportion of large traditional institutions are gradually replacing shorter-term care, and that in general, family reunification or foster care in a new family is preferred. the living conditions of children and young people in the european union are receiving increasing attention. the european council of march 2006 called on member states to take action to reduce child poverty rapidly and substantially and to provide equal opportunities for all children, irrespective of their social background. in the social inclusion action plans submitted by the member states to the commission, children at risk of poverty and social exclusion have been identified as priority groups. some member states have set specific national targets for reducing child poverty. the commission is aware that in some member states of the european union, in institutions for the care of mentally or physically disabled children and adults, there is an excessive use of restraining agents, whether pharmacological or physical, which the commission considers inappropriate. the recent commission communication on the status of disabled people in an enlarged european union places great emphasis on deinstitutionalizing care for disabled people. however, the community has only limited powers in this area and the commission therefore encourages the use of a range of instruments, including the anti-discrimination programme, the national action plans for social inclusion and the european social fund. the commission also recalls that it will shortly publish a communication on the european union's action to promote and protect the rights of the child.
thank you for that very exhaustive, full and explanatory statement, commissioner. i welcome the statement and i am grateful to you for giving so much attention to the position of those who are excluded from society, particularly when they are minors. i salute your determination to pursue a policy of inclusion across europe. however, may i draw his attention to the daphne-funded analyses, recently conducted surveys focusing particularly on long-term institutional care, averaging 13 months, of children under three years of age, which is the time when they are most likely to be damaged neurologically. i might perhaps send you those reports, commissioner. i believe another one is about to start. my final point is that the use of caged birds in some of the existing member states is definable as inhumane and i hope to take that topic up with you personally as well. thank you, commissioner, i am most grateful to you.
member of the commission. madam president, i would of course be very happy to read the dafne report and any other report and any other objective data which would allow us to make progress in this field. the very fact that the study is funded through the dafne programme is a signal that europe is moving forward consistently and is working towards its goals. the question of deinstitutionalization is a question of the first order, and i think that any effort we can make to develop it further is both right and necessary. as regards the use of cage beds, i think you are right that in some countries these beds equipped with nets are used and that it is often disputed whether they are not abused or even used only for the comfort of the staff. the problem, in my opinion, is not so much with the technology as with the culture of restriction which still exists in some institutions and in some countries, more than corresponds to the high humanitarian standards which the european union is trying to enforce, because the same inhuman interventions on the human psyche can be achieved by the use of pharmacological agents, if they are used without the appropriate indication and on the basis of a culture of restriction. i believe that this culture of restriction needs to be eradicated and combated throughout the european union, and that it is not so important what kind of technology is used to achieve this. you are right that cage beds can be a problem in some countries, but i have noted with some satisfaction that in some countries, if not many, there is a marked tendency to abandon this method.
member of the commission. the commission has of course not lost sight of this very important point. in any case, significant progress has been made, although some areas, such as the issue of intercountry adoption, are still very much under discussion. the commission has in no way abandoned the idea of paying attention to the rights of the child, because i am fully convinced that the european union has a certain social responsibility and that this responsibility must of course also be implemented in the context of accession negotiations, so it is inconceivable that we should underestimate this subject.
member of the commission. it is, of course, important to note that matters relating to the fight against child abuse are a matter of national competence. the prolongation of these cases, the long deadlines, the misrepresentation, etc. are the responsibility of the national authorities. it is difficult to intervene directly in this area at the level of the european union. it is possible to intervene in this area through european social fund projects, through specialised projects, through discussions, through the exchange of information, and we are doing this with considerable effort. i think it is also very important to develop and continue to develop the initiative, which falls primarily within the remit of my colleague, commissioner frattini, and which concerns the fight against trafficking in human beings, the fight against domestic violence, etc. in this respect too, the european commission is trying to formulate, in the first instance, at least an exchange of defined data, so that the situation in the individual member states can be compared and certain approaches can be formulated on this basis. the basic principle still applies, however, that social matters, including those often tragic and sensitive matters, are national matters, i.e. if a case has not been resolved for a long time, it is much more a matter for the national authority than for the european union, but we must nevertheless make full use of the part that is within our competence and our possibilities.
i am part of the advisory council for the mental disability advocacy centre and we have been raising the issue of caged beds for a number of years now. but you are quite right – it is not just a question of caged beds; it is restraints on the beds, the use of pharmaceuticals and, more importantly perhaps, it is the lack of community care spaces. could you please do all in your power, particularly with the green paper on mental health coming to the end of its consultation period on 31 may, to address the issue of community-based care and getting people away from institutionalised care, not just for children but for people with mental health problems as well.
member of the commission. madam president, your view is certainly in full agreement with the commission's view, which has also been expressed in the relevant communications. our path is towards deinstitutionalization, i.e. to transfer as much care as possible to the level of the municipalities, the community and, of course, the families. i think in this situation, we also have to think very hard about how we support family members or people who may not be immediate family members but have taken care of someone else. when we think about it in the normal way, we think about financial support, but i think that some form of qualification should be provided, because it is undoubtedly very important for families who have to take on this kind of responsibility to know the basic nursing methods, the basic principles that are followed, as well as the limits that this care can bring. it's an unbearable ethical torture to feel that you can go one step further, and in reality, you can't, and in that sense, you can't make it easier for the people who are helping. this is the essence of the commission's strategy: to move from institutions that are often inhumane, that often have a restrictive culture, that are not able to accept the individuality and quality of life of the individuals who are in contact with them, towards communities, towards natural communities and, of course, towards families in the broadest sense.
member of the commission. the member’s question gives the impression that the commission has proposed to increase the acceptable level of adventitious contamination of organic products with gmos from 0.1% to 0.9%. i am very happy to have the opportunity to clarify this matter, because the issue has been raised both with myself and with my services on many occasions and in many different fora. in my view, the concerns are based on a misunderstanding of our proposal and of existing legislation regarding organic products and gmos. to read our proposal as ‘to allow 0.9% of gmo content in products labelled organic’ is a clear misinterpretation. i should like to explain why. not all consumers are aware of this, but currently there is no specific legislation on permissible gmo thresholds in organic products, there are no permissible gmo thresholds in organic products. the existing organic production rules ban the deliberate use of gmos or gm-derived products without laying down any threshold for the unintended presence of traces of gmos. there is, therefore, no question of these rules ‘already permitting a 0.1% contamination of gmos in products labelled organic’, as the honourable member stated in her question. these rules date from a period when gmos were not generally cultivated or imported. this situation has obviously now changed. the proposal of the commission maintains the ban on the deliberate use of gmos or gm-derived products. however, we propose that an operator may rely on gm labels when assuring that no gmos enter his/her production. these labels provide for effective evidence as, today, gmos or products derived from gmos generally have to be labelled as gm according to community legislation. this de facto means that the same 0.9% threshold for the unintended presence of gmo traces applies to organic products as to other products. we believe that if we tried to impose a stricter labelling threshold for organic products, this would simply make life much more difficult for organic producers, because we realise that complete purity is unattainable in practice. even so – and i would like to stress this – it does not mean, as the honourable member states, that the proposal ‘increased the level of permitted gmo contamination to 0.9 %’. the operator will have to continue to take all appropriate steps to avoid the presence of gmos! what, on the contrary, would really change under our proposal is that a product labelled as gm could no longer be labelled as organic at the same time if the 0.9% threshold is exceeded, which is in fact possible today under the present legislation. on the health aspects, it has to be considered that gmos may only be placed on the market following a specific case-by-case authorisation procedure. the european union has arguably the most stringent and tough risk assessment and authorisation procedure for gmos in the world, and that covers both environmental and health aspects. for this reason, the discussion about unintended presence of gmos does not relate to safety issues. in conclusion, i really must emphasise once again that in relation to the adventitious contamination of organic products by gmos, the proposal under discussion at present amounts to a very important tightening-up of the rules and not, as it has often been suggested, a weakening. this is very important. it is really a tightening-up of the situation.
thank you, commissioner, for that very comprehensive clarification of a complex issue. as you appreciate, gmos are in the top five of real concerns of european citizens, and public opinion in europe is very sceptical about gm products and is very worried about ‘frankenfoods’. the issue for us is: one, we have to get the right information out there and, two, how do we assure that with the commission proposals, as you have outlined, this information reaches the public at large? i can read you a number of emails that i have received in which people are very concerned. recently the wto confirmed the ruling against the eu in the case of gmos. what implications are there for this in what you have just stated as the policy?
member of the commission. then i am quite sure we received the same emails. therefore, today is a great opportunity for me to clarify some of the misunderstandings. i believe the most essential step was that we were able to agree in the council in november 2002 on the traceability and labelling of gmos. that was crucial. the final outcome might not have satisfied everybody, but it was important that products that are produced directly from a gm product – for example, tomato ketchup produced directly from gm tomatoes – must be labelled. therefore, consumers can actually choose whether they want to buy those products. farmers can now avoid, for example, soybeans that have been produced by gm methods and buy the conventional type of feed for their animals. that was a major achievement. the wto dispute we had with the united states does not change anything.
i wonder if the commissioner would be helped in her information campaign if she were to tell us how much it would cost producers of organic food to reduce the ceiling from 0.9% to 0.1% on gmo content. what would it cost the organic producers? what would it cost their customers, and what would be the impact on availability of organic food for the customers? can she give me those figures?
commissioner, yesterday i was reading a british paper whilst i was travelling to strasbourg. it is a rather lengthy journey, so i had plenty of time on my hands. i read an article setting out all the telephone providers’ arguments as to why you do not understand their objections. is it not the case that those same companies benefit from access to the single market and from the european union whilst foisting charges upon eu citizens? is this not another example of the european union standing up for the interests of european consumers over the overwhelming power of monopoly companies?
i would like to join in the praise for the tough stand the commissioner has taken, but i want to reinforce what she said about not wanting to over-regulate. can she confirm that she has taken real notice of the european regulators, who have, i think, been fairly critical of her initial approach and are being very cautionary about what she is proposing to do? would she please confirm to me that she is not intending to impose regulation in the marketplace that would require operators to deliver services below cost, because that would mean low-income users of mobile phones subsidising the premium rates of customers such as meps?
i am aware that commissioner mandelson has pushed financial services quite hard and i am pleased to hear from the commissioner that he is intending to do so. does he agree with me that it is somewhat ironic that a country like india, which has call centres from european companies selling insurance, mortgages, loans and other financial services to europeans, denies those very services to its own people, and will he press india in particular to reform its protectionist system for financial services?
firstly, i welcome your reply, commissioner. i would urge you along the route of certification. you are right, it would be quite wrong if, for example, the use of palm oil led to the destruction of forests in indonesia. so i would push you in that direction. the other problem we have with biofuels is that while we are getting cars produced that can take biofuels and getting drivers willing to drive the cars, there is still a great difficulty in most parts of europe in finding petrol stations that will stock biofuels and enable the consumer to take advantage of this ecologically friendly system. will he do what he can to encourage more petrol companies to have a biofuel pump in their stations?
madam president, having experienced not just the trauma of bse but the very protracted and painful recovery until we recently secured the return of british beef exports, none of us wants to see that happen again. thus i support the essence of the tse structures endorsed in this report. i wish to raise one concern, however, with regard to beef imports into the eu. it is correctly suggested in one of the amendments that we legislate for acceptable feeding regimes for the cattle whose meat is imported. but my question is: how do we police those regimes so that the consumer can be truly satisfied that cheaper imports are subject to the same tough control as indigenous produce? not only must we lay down the same standards for imported produce as domestic produce, we must be sure that those standards are demonstrably met. that is the issue i invite the commissioner to address when he replies in this debate.
madam president, i should like to congratulate my colleague, mrs roth-behrendt. she has drawn up a balanced report based on common sense. turning to the issue of fishmeal, maybe i am a bit emotional, but i tend to agree with those who say that we should not go back to feeding animal protein to ruminants. we moved away from that a number of years ago. we continue to feed ruminants and eat them in our countries. therefore i believe that is a step backwards. i wonder what the public would say if we asked them about this. would they want us to go back to feeding fish discards to ruminants? is that what the public wants? i can accept the compromise that mrs roth-behrendt has put before us, because it makes sense and it would help us achieve a first reading agreement. the second issue is the policy shift on tolerance levels for small amounts of animal protein. in concrete terms, that means that, in my constituency for example, a feed plant which at the moment is producing feed for ruminants will be able at the same time to manufacture feed for pigs and poultry. at the moment they have to transport feed from other parts of the country at greater expense, with more of an environmental impact because of the transport. it is a common-sense idea to have the tolerance thresholds to make sure that we have proper clean-up between the different kinds of feed manufacture. i send my good wishes to mrs roth-behrendt. i hope she will be back soon. she has produced a very good report and i know that she has worked very hard on tse and bse for many years on behalf of this parliament.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, it gives me great pleasure, on behalf of my group and as the coordinator for the committee, to congratulate mrs pleštinská on her first report in parliament. i am sure that it will be the first of many. i am really delighted that she has taken on this role. it is entirely appropriate that, coming from one of the new member states most active in the field of the internal market, she has not only blazed a trail for members from slovakia, but also has the moral authority to carry this forward. if you look at the internal market scoreboard, you will see that top of the list of countries that have transposed internal market legislation and adopted european standards are the new member states. they are putting all the old member states to shame in that respect. so i believe that she has done outstanding work here. i am also delighted that we have reached an agreement with the council and the commission in pre-conciliation to get this important package through at first reading. let me turn to some of the issues. i have to take issue with the spokesman from the committee on budgets, who has totally misunderstood what this is all about. as you said, commissioner, it is largely about the development of effective technical standards for products. that is one of your crucial responsibilities in the new allocation of portfolios in the commission. but we must not forget that this is all part of the total development of the internal market. we are now on the verge of a very important review of the future of the internal market. i share the view of my colleague, mr rübig, that the role of standardisation bodies is crucial in making that market work better. we still have problems where those standards are not being recognised by member states. it is still too difficult for manufacturers to take advantage of the single market. i have to ask the limited number of people here how we are going to create jobs and growth in the european economy if we cannot get the internal market to work properly; if we cannot engage all the tools and weapons at our disposal. i was really pleased that the president of the commission, in the statement that he made this week about delivery for our citizens, put the completion of the internal market absolutely at the top of the list. that is where it should be. if we cannot make the internal market work, what else have we got to do to achieve success in the global economy? standards are part of that, not just in europe but also in the world as a whole. as the rapporteurs say in one of their amendments – and i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteur, mrs herczog, for her work – we want to ensure fair and transparent access to european standards for all market players throughout the union. that is what this proposal is all about.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on development. – mr president, i wish to thank parliament's team, who showed such respect and gave such commitment and importance to the committee on development's position. i must reflect a rather negative position from that committee: in june 2005 you will recall that this hemicycle was encircled by a 'make poverty history' band. unfortunately, that hope has been dissipated as today we discuss financial perspective proposals that reflect lower levels of growth for the development cooperation instrument than is the case for all europe's other external actions. how can we believe that it is possible for europe to meet its millennium development goal targets if resources are to be limited for those critical years up to 2013? europe's preoccupation with counterterrorism and with migration should not dictate that resources should be diverted away from our essential task, which is to work with the pressing needs of the world's poorest people and poorest countries. the development committee also firmly rejects the language used by the commission, which presumes that the proposals to rationalise the instrument have the potential to enhance either the coherence or the responsiveness of the european union as a development partner. finally, our commitment is to fund human and social development in the world's poorest countries. as things stand, i think we tragically face the likelihood that europe will be seen as reneging on those principles and on those priorities. i also feel that the strong and welcome commitment made last year by us all – the commission, parliament and, in particular, the council and the member states – is now seriously under threat and the committee on development has to express its deep concern about the effects of the financial perspectives on its work. (applause)
mr president, the treaty provides only for an annual budgetary procedure. it does not provide for financial perspectives. but it is nonetheless quite sensible that the two arms of the budgetary authority agree on a multiannual perspective to permit more sensible long-term and forward planning. my one criticism of this agreement, seen from the point of view of the committee on constitutional affairs, is that it is so detailed and is broken down into so many points that it takes much of the flexibility away from the annual budgetary procedure. that said, in terms of overall content it is a good agreement. many colleagues have pointed out that the sums agreed are less than what had initially been proposed by the commission. that, of course, is true. at the same time, however, for most items of expenditure they represent an increase on current levels of eu spending. sometimes the increases are substantial, as in the case of research and development. that is to be welcomed. the one area that will decline is agricultural spending, by about 7% over that whole period. it may not seem much of a decline, but not just the 10 new member states but also romania and bulgaria will have to fit within that ceiling. that would mean a substantial decrease for the old eu-15. i think the reform of the cap in this regard has often been underestimated in the debate. the redistribution from agriculture to other items of expenditure is something that should be welcomed.
mr president, it is said that a bad compromise leaves some people happy and some people sad, while a good compromise leaves everybody pretty well unsatisfied. it would appear, to my group at least, that according to that definition this is a very good compromise. the question for my group, however, is whether this interinstitutional agreement answers the big questions facing europe at the moment. our judgement is that it does not. it looks increasingly clear that we are in a minority, but we will be voting against this deal on the grounds that we could do so much better for our citizens. this interinstitutional agreement locks us into never-ending wrangling between the net contributors, the net recipients, old europe, new europe, the council and parliament, at a time when we must be one europe or we risk being no europe. we are not without ideas. the sapir report contained a number of ideas that merited consideration. they have been put to one side in favour of continuing as we are, when europe deserves so much better. on those grounds, my group will be voting against.
mr president, budgetary discipline, sound financial management – surely these words are alien to this place! in fact, they are veritable oxymorons when used in relation to anything to do with the finances of the european union. this agreement is designed to keep the whole crumbling edifice of the eu in place. it uses lots of high-sounding words that give the impression that the eu is professional, well organised and has properly-maintained financial records. all i can say to that is ‘phooey’. words mean nothing. after 11 years of abject failure to produce auditable financial accounts, how can we possibly justify putting in place an agreement allowing more of the same? my colleagues and i will therefore be voting against this agreement on principle, but then we do not believe in the european union either. it is a morally bankrupt, institutionally wrong and dangerously undemocratic organisation, a dinosaur in the modern world. it is a major threat to security, freedom and, more importantly, the economic future of europe.
mr president, may i add my congratulations to mr berger and the parliament team, particularly mr walter. they all worked very hard through difficult and drawn-out negotiations to achieve this agreement. i firmly believe that, given the circumstances, the best and most sensible deal was brokered. parliament was right to push member states to put more resources behind the ambitious programmes that all the governments and political leaders have signed up to. but, more importantly, the negotiations have had key outcomes, non-financial gains that add value and will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of future budgets. let me highlight just three: the reinforcement of member states' responsibility to improve expenditure control in order to achieve a positive court of auditor's statement, an improvement in the execution of eu programmes and an effective input from parliament into the budgetary review in 2008. the best course of action for now is to focus on this 2008 budgetary review. in it we must reform the structure of the budget from head to toe – deconstruct it to build a new improved framework that reflects the needs and expectations of the eu of 2014. one reason we had so many problems in getting agreement on future financing was that the commission missed an opportunity to address the root problem of the current financial framework, namely the lack of flexibility. i therefore urge the commission not to miss the boat again. now we must build an eu financial framework that demonstrates transparency, one that is rigorous and displays solidarity. it has to be free from the legacies of the past; a framework that must combine the visions of over 27 member states and is flexible enough to face future challenges.
in writing. the british conservative group acknowledge the benefits of the interinstitutional agreement and in particular applaud the provision for the parliament to take a more influential role in the 2008-2009 review. we also warmly welcome the requirement for the national authorities to accept greater accountability for the money they spend. we would point out; however, that the compromise deal struck between the parties fails to adequately address the problems that confront the european union today. in particular it has missed a rare opportunity to alter the political priorities and instead has continued to fund the traditional spending programmes.
in writing. i welcome the interinstitutional agreement as providing financial stability for the 2007 to 2013 period. i also welcome the fact that parliament has been able to add around eur 4 billion to the original settlement reached by the european council. this demonstrates parliament's ability to negotiate effectively with other institutions.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which seeks to amend the eu’s current rules on controlling transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (tse) in order to bring the eu into line with international agreements reducing bse risks categories from 5 to 3. tses are brain disorders in animals and include sub-categories such as bse and other diseases. the aim is to streamline the risk categories while improving eu animal health controls and maintaining consumer protection.
rapporteur. – mr president, the job of the european parliament is to scrutinise and hold to account the institutions of the european union, yet every year since 1988 in this parliament’s annual human rights report, we have scrutinised the record of governments across the world, but never asked the hard questions about what impact the eu itself has had in promoting compliance with international human rights law abroad. this year we are doing so. i would like to thank colleagues from the austrian presidency who have agreed with us an enhanced role for parliament, as the council prepares its annual human rights report on behalf of the union as a whole. this is not so much a question of institutional sensitivities: it is more that a unified and strengthened eu human rights report can provide a stronger voice for europe and our commitment to human rights in the world. i hope our proposal for an annual eu list of countries of concern will be considered in that context. i would like to thank the commissioner, too, for her support for this approach and for listening and responding to parliament by agreeing to a separate legal instrument for human rights. this will allow us to continue funding human rights projects, despite opposition from governments responsible for oppression and abuse. it is the right choice. of course parliament will, this year and every year, offer constructive criticism. why does the council support un reform which puts human rights onto an equal footing, yet itself have a part-time working group, compared to other foreign policy working groups which are staffed by permanent brussels-based officials? human rights are not a part-time occupation. when un troops in liberia stand accused of rape and torture, how can europe launch its own esdp mission in aceh, indonesia, without any human rights monitoring? why do the eu’s human rights consultations allow russia to exclude human rights ngos and why does our human rights dialogue with china not even benefit from simultaneous language interpretation? and does europe really apply human rights consistently when it fails to support criticisms of the abuse in both china and russia, but is prepared to do so for less strategically important countries like nepal or north korea? explain to the families of 99 trade unionists murdered last year in colombia, which has the worst record in the world, why europe actually offers trade preferences to that country for its supposed protection of internationally agreed workers’ rights. why have nine member states, including germany, ireland, and portugal, failed to sign the un optional protocol against torture? eleven eu countries refuse to sign the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings, including britain, france and spain. why have seven of our members considered signing so-called immunity agreements in opposition to the jurisdiction of the international criminal court? when human rights defenders face death threats for upholding their rights, how can evidence show that in zimbabwe – scene of political imprisonment, mass evictions and the persecution of journalists – the european commission delegation itself said that it was not aware of the eu’s guidelines for human rights defenders? we can do better. we must stop the navel-gazing by eu representatives in international forums and, for the first time, genuinely link multilateral and bilateral negotiations in the eu so that abusive countries know they will face adverse consequences in the eu’s diplomatic trade and development policies. we must use a more sophisticated sliding scale of sanctions and make it easier to find political agreement in the eu to apply them. we should ensure that one staff member in every commission delegation, in 118 countries worldwide, is responsible for reporting and promoting human rights obligations. we must make the un and its international human rights conventions a contractual obligation of the stabilisation, association and accession process, starting with ourselves. finally, as far as we ourselves are concerned, let me refer to the debate raging this week in my own country, the united kingdom, on how human rights can be reconciled, given the changed threats of terrorism, people trafficking and organised crime. it is time to say that the threats might change, but that human rights are inviolable. when the last generation saw nelson mandela labelled a terrorist, when former east germans smuggled themselves across the berlin wall, when the holocaust represented one of the worst ethnic genocides in world history, the threats of terrorism, trafficking and racial hatred were a cue to agree human rights, not to tear them down. so if our generation is sincere in seeking the freedom of political prisoners like aung san suu kyi, tackling the despicable trade in women and children for sexual exploitation and bringing the perpetrators of ethnic cleansing in darfur and in the balkans to justice, we have to defend the concept of human rights at home as well as abroad. europe must practice what it preaches. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for all his hard work on this report. i am pleased that we have moved away from just a list of countries where human rights abuses are a problem and i welcome the new measures we are taking in this report. i hope we continue in this way. having said that, i am pleased that the situation in kashmir has been included. i hope we will eventually find a just solution involving the kashmiri people that will end human rights abuses from all sides. i am also glad that we call in this report for the americans to close down guantanamo bay. i think it is very important that we do this and that detainees have a fair trial. again, that is included in this report. i am sorry, however, that my amendment on cia flights was not accepted by the committee, but i note amendment 5, which seeks to rectify this situation. it is very important that we include cia flights in this report. i would have liked a stronger statement on people with mental health problems, as the rapporteur knows, but i am pleased that they have been included. i am equally pleased that disabled people have been included generally, with a particular emphasis on the united nations convention on the rights of people with disabilities. as many of you know, i was parliament’s rapporteur on that issue. i am glad that there is a strong mention of trafficking in human beings. i, along with mr coveney and various other members, have been campaigning on this subject for quite some time. i am sorry, however, that we are told repeatedly in our committee that we cannot mention human rights abuses within the european union. that, i believe, takes away from the strength of our argument when we are talking about human rights abuses in other parts of the world.
mr president, another year, another report, but what real change? still we trumpet human rights and democracy clauses in partnership agreements with third countries, but non-compliance largely seems to go unmarked. apart from a single suspension in the case of relatively insignificant uzbekistan, these clauses might as well not exist, especially with regard to major economic forces like china. there it seems to some of us that the value of trade persuades the eu to do less than it could about flagrant breaches of human rights and instances of religious persecution. indeed, one is tempted to say that such is the eu’s apparent awe of china that it avoided an opportunity during the year to sponsor a critical motion in the united nations. likewise, when it came to an opportunity there to join in condemning zimbabwe for its mass forced evictions, the eu countries also avoided that issue. it is true that we talk the talk of human rights, but too often, it seems to me, we hold back when there are economic interests which we seem to hold dearer.
mr president, we find ourselves once again debating the situation of human rights in the world. i thank the rapporteur for his evident hard work in compiling this comprehensive report, for the cooperative attitude he has demonstrated throughout and his support for the inclusion of kashmir. for this, i personally thank him. colleagues, we often speak of human rights in the abstract, in terms of well-rehearsed subjects and themes, but in this instance i should like to ask colleagues to imagine themselves as an 18-year old on holiday abroad. you take a taxi journey to visit your friends and family that ends in tragedy. there are no witnesses, for the taxi driver ends up dead and you go straight to the first policeman you can find. you say he pulled a gun on you and what you did was in self-defence. this leads to a legal process which finds you innocent, then finds you guilty, then starts over again until every appeal is exhausted and you are ultimately condemned to death, with due legal process having been thrown out of the equation. all this takes 18 years; half your life on death row: a cruel life sentence in itself. this is not an abstraction. this is the tale of the rough justice of a british and eu citizen, mirza tahir hussain, condemned to death on 1 june – his 36th birthday – a matter of days away. today, we reaffirm this house’s role as a defender of human rights with a long history of opposition to the death penalty. i implore you all to live up to the responsibility this position carries and make representations to the president of pakistan, appealing for clemency for mirza tahir hussain.
i would like to congratulate mr howitt on his report. our twin reports in parliament on human rights in the world and human rights in the union demonstrate the importance we place on this issue. our consistent campaign against the death penalty, whether in the united states or china, iran or japan, is to be welcomed. my own government in britain was influential in pushing this forward during its presidency last year. my only criticism on this foreign affairs committee report would be its unevenness in places and its over-reliance on third-hand reports. for example, saudi arabia barely gets a mention. the situation is that the majority of the population – its women – face vicious discrimination. followers of all faiths, save its own peculiar form of islam, face persecution and where torture and mutilation are rife. equally, it reports persecution of journalists in north korea. yet as someone who follows the country closely, it is a complaint i have never heard. there is much rightly to raise with the government of north korea regarding human rights in the prisons and camps, plus the humanitarian situation in the countryside, rather than these blanket and unsupported catch-all allegations that do no credit to our work.
i welcome this report by my colleague richard howitt on human rights in the world 2005. he is right to draw to our attention to the fact that while the eu is vigorous in promoting human rights, its efforts are largely confined to specialist and one-off representations. there is, sadly, a general failure by the eu to address human rights concerns systematically and continuously with respect to third countries and to mainstream human rights policy with respect to the union’s trade, development, and other external policies with such countries. we need a common, consistent and transparent policy for dealing with abuses of human rights in third countries.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on international trade. – mr president, i fully support the objectives of the ‘prodi package’ of simplifying the structure of our external actions. as the largest provider of overseas development assistance, a key trading partner for the ldcs and an important provider of technical and financial assistance, the eu has an obligation to ensure that our actions add value, are properly coordinated and are coherent. the committee on international trade has three main concerns about the packages in general and the dceci instrument in particular. firstly, in relation to the legal base, we took the view that article 179 was an insufficient base and that we needed a legal base that included cooperation with both developing and industrialised countries: in other words the inclusion of article 181a. nevertheless, we respect the view of the committee on development that having this in a single instrument involved the risk of vulnerability between development objectives and industrial objectives. our second concern is the apparent downplaying of the importance of trade in the package as a whole. we want trade-related assistance to be given a clearer focus and wonder, in the absence of a thematic programme, how trade will be handled in the proposed structures for the new instruments. finally, we share the other committees’ concerns about the erosion of parliamentary control and believe that parliament was right to reject the original 2004 proposals. the breakthrough we have achieved with the council and the commission on review and expiry clauses should lead to a positive vote tomorrow, but parliament must now be fully engaged in setting policy priorities throughout the package.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, firstly i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr szymánski, on the enpi. the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument – which will replace the existing tacis and meda programmes in 2007 – is, in my view, essential to budgetary discipline and procedure. it will cover the euromed countries of the barcelona process and the western nis countries, as well as the three caucasus republics, which currently constitute the european neighbourhood policy countries on which i am parliament’s rapporteur. like russia, which is not part of the enp but enjoys the four common spaces, these are all key neighbouring countries whose geopolitical stability and economic prosperity is vital to eu interests. we need to be surrounded by a ring of friends who enjoy free markets, security within their borders and shared values with the european union, particularly on human rights and democracy-building. although generous, the aid provided in these dedicated instruments – in the case of the enpi it is of the order of eur 12 billion for the next financial perspective – is less per capita than that granted in the pre-accession process to eu candidate countries. nevertheless, it is an important contribution in technical assistance and investment in key infrastructure projects, which can complement the work of the eib and the ebrd. i also believe that aid and trade privileges must be the carrot that can be coupled to the stick of conditionality as part of the enp, to ensure that the closer these countries move towards the european union’s values, the more they can be rewarded in future. the enpi must remain part of the codecision procedure under article 179, with suitable monitoring and oversight by our parliament. i also welcome the concession by the commission – and i gather the council will also fall into line on this – to set up a dedicated instrument for human rights and democracy that will facilitate the eu’s priority support for building greater values of human rights, democracy and freedom in the rest of the world.
madam president, we are constantly told to listen to the people, not least by the greek president this very morning. let us do that and recognise that the people, when asked directly, say ‘no’ to the constitution, not least because they view with dismay the allocation of more and more of their money to pre-accession and even pre-candidate countries, some of which are undeveloped. here it is essential that developed and undeveloped countries be separated and that these funds are not for european countries alone. so the eu should remember third world countries outside the eu where its funds would be put to better use. in fact, its activities often lead to poverty in the third world, which is why my party wishes to put this aid back in the hands of member states alone. only yesterday, this house voted to allow eu fleets the rights to fish the waters of são tomé, príncipe and angola. we all know what happens then: the eu fleets rape the waters, putting locals out of business and destroying fish stocks for years to come. what price external relations then? yesterday, we gave rights to eu fleets to fish moroccan waters and specifically rejected proposals that member states could prohibit their fleets from fishing the waters of western sahara. half the people of that unhappy country live in algerian refugee camps because of morocco’s military takeover. now there is political, uncivil insecurity for you! thus is western sahara impoverished when it could be helped. but there are only 300 000 people there; they have renounced violence, unlike some other countries in receipt of eu funds, so the world forgets them.
madam president, last year we saw millions of young people marching to make poverty history. poverty matters to them; it matters to us. also last year, we saw the people of europe – france and the netherlands – reject the constitution, because to them the eu was too remote from their concerns. we now have a chance to bring their concerns about poverty and our concerns about connecting with the people of europe together. this parliament is the point of connection, the point of transparency and accountability. that is why codecision is so important. that is why transparency is so important. that is why accountability is so important. that is why replacing 16 codecision instruments with one will not work: replacing instruments on aids, tuberculosis and malaria, replacing policies on sexual and reproductive health, on measures to promote the full integration of environmental dimensions, on measures to promote the consolidation of sustainable management of forests – including those in developing counties, policies on consolidating democracy and the rule of law, on respecting human rights, on promoting gender equality in developing countries, on decentralised cooperation, on cofinancing with other ngos, on food aid and food management, on development cooperation with south africa, with latin america, with asia – it must be dotty! whoever in the commission thought this up? i do not think that the commissioner has anything to do with it. we have to be accountable; we have to report back to our people. our people expect us to tell them what we are doing with their money, and we cannot do that if there is only one development cooperation instrument that will cover this whole gamut of policy. we have to set policy. parliaments are there to set policy, to implement and oversee the implementation of policy and to account for money. that is what parliaments are for and we cannot avoid our responsibilities. i do not think that anybody in the commission should think that the meps in this parliament are going to abrogate their duties. i congratulate mr mitchell on a very good report. (applause)
when does the council anticipate that the negotiations will address the institutional chapter? when it does so, what offer will the current member states give to croatia as regards the number of votes croatia will have in the council? will it be an offer based on the current voting system, which all member states have agreed to change in the constitutional treaty, or will it be based on an offer made on the basis of the constitutional treaty? in which case, will that be possible without reopening all the linked issues, which we thought were solved in the constitutional treaty? will it therefore not be necessary to re-examine the whole constitutional package?
president-in-office, you said that the scope of the eu’s powers is limited, which i accept. however, the one thing the eu could do is to lift the label of outlaws and terrorists from the people’s mujahedin. i raised this matter a few months ago and asked you to consider bringing it before the council. you said, to my delight, that you would not just consider it but positively do it. could you share with us the progress you have made or expect to make, or the timing thereof?
i thank the council for that very comprehensive response. i am still amazed that the situation is allowed to continue. liechtenstein must be a drain on austria in the way it flouts the system so close by. i am amazed that the larger eu states allow these anomalies to continue outside the eu but within the wider area. these states are extremely dependent on our benevolence. andorra uses the euro, the channel islands use the pound sterling, but they pick and choose which laws they want to follow. they exploit loopholes that the eu allows, and we continue to allow that and enable a few rich people to exploit the system, making a mockery of our eu regulations. despite everything the president-in-office has said, i still think it is amazing that we allow these anomalies to continue. i would have thought there is a need for even more action than he has just spoken about.
rapporteur and author. – mr president, i am not sure i have ever enjoyed such largesse of time before in this house, but i am glad it is in the company of a select club! i wish to begin by expanding on the objects of our two questions to the council and to the commission. i should emphasise that they are our questions – although it is gratifying to see my name on them, the questions are on behalf of my committee. i am very pleased to see that the presidency is able to be present after all. i appreciate that this may have caused inconvenience, but holding this debate at this time presents some inconvenience to me as well: i could be elsewhere consuming asparagus. because the council has changed the original commission proposal with regard to the role of the european parliament from the consultation procedure to simply informing parliament of any decision of the council, i am bound to ask why the council appears to be trying to bypass or circumvent parliament. what could the council have to hide? in the context of the apparent reluctance to be present here tonight, the substance of our question has added relevance. therefore, allow me to remind the council representative, mr winkler, of our two specific questions. the first is: what mechanism would the council envisage for ex ante informing of parliament prior to the adoption of a position by the council with regard to the energy community treaty institutions? secondly, by what means and by whom will parliament be informed ex ante of the position taken by the representatives of the european community in the organs of the energy community treaty, such as the permanent high level group? before the house is invited to vote on the recommendation on the energy community treaty tomorrow, we need some answers and assurances from the council on these points, and i and others will be listening carefully. because this is a very important matter, the proposed treaty creates an interesting precedent in extending the acquis communautaire in a limited and very specific field to third countries, albeit that two of them should be joining the european union very shortly or others are in various stages of negotiating accession. it is also important because energy is currently perceived as a very important issue, largely as a result of events at the beginning of this year. those events were rather like throwing a large stone into a pond, creating ripples. energy is vital to our way of life, vital to our quality of life and vital to our standard of living, so how we organise markets and safeguard security of supply is equally important. turning to the question to the commission, i should like to acknowledge from the outset the high level of cooperation and the positive response to our concerns that we have received from commissioner piebalgs. indeed, i welcome his open and constructive approach in meetings and in the recent letter with regard to the issues of informing parliament about the activities of the energy community and addressing some of the concerns of my committee over social and human rights issues. i trust that the council will endorse his offer to inform parliament in advance of the european community position to be taken before the institutions of the energy community on important issues. i welcome his letter’s assertion that he considers it of the utmost importance that parliament is fully informed in advance of important decisions to be adopted by the energy community. now i come to the specific points contained in our questions to the commission, which i feel still require a response. the council decision on the conclusion of the energy community treaty lays down in its article 4(3) the provisions for providing ‘mutual assistance in the event of disruption’ – see the treaty’s title iv, chapter iv. yet the same article of the decision stipulates that: ‘in the event of special circumstances’ the position of the european community ‘may go beyond the acquis communautaire’. so the first question is: what might these special circumstances be? the second question is: what is meant by the phrase, it ‘may go beyond the acquis communautaire’? i ask the commissioner to put some flesh on those two issues for us. the final point – by what means and by whom will parliament be informed ex ante of the position taken by the commission within the various organs of the energy community treaty – has been answered in general terms in the commissioner’s letter. however, i invite him to share any further thoughts he may have with parliament on detailed implementation of these undertakings. finally, i come to the crux of the matter: whether parliament should vote for the recommendation. let me say that i recognise the good intention of the commission in offering to brief my committee about the work undertaken in the preparation and negotiation of this treaty, although our reaction might have been more welcoming and less suspicious of what was being proposed had it not come out of the blue without any prior knowledge on our part. i also recognise and appreciate the commission’s efforts to persuade the council to take this treaty down the assent procedure route instead of, as it were, slipping it through on the nod. however, i am bound to observe that this was after we began raising questions about possible empire-building by the commission. this treaty could provide an important message to the countries of south-east europe, and even beyond, that the eu is capable of being outward-looking and wants to embrace them in the family of european nations. i am not entirely sure how much comfort bulgaria will derive from this, given the earlier decision to force early closure of kozloduy – a decision which no longer has any technical justification in my view, but maybe this treaty could help offset that negative message. i close by expressing the hope that the council in particular will be able to give us sufficient comfort this evening so that we can proceed to a favourable vote tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we know setting up an internal energy market between the eu and the countries of south-east europe has advantages for both sides: for the balkan states it helps establish the reliable energy supply necessary for economic growth, and for us on the eu side it facilitates access to gas resources in the middle east and around the caspian sea, enhancing diversity and security of supply – especially important since the ripples in the pool that were alluded to by mr chichester. however, there have been concerns, and the helpful letter from commissioner piebalgs does not entirely answer these. it is not clear whether the ect states will be signed up to the eu charter of fundamental rights. it is not clear whether the internal market will be underpinned by health, safety and employment standards, as it is in the eu. it is not clear whether there will be any control of the demand side of energy, as there is through eu energy efficiency legislation, or whether environmental considerations, such as the control of pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions, have been given adequate attention. there will be no level playing field if these standards are absent. there is also the question of corruption in the energy sector. to give just one example, in 2005 the british serious fraud office investigated the involvement of a british company in the serb state power company following allegations that corrupt money was being used to protect war criminals. because of all these concerns, it is understandable that the european parliament should wish to be both informed and consulted in advance of decisions. i regret that parliament does not yet have codecision in this area and i wish that there was a constitution in place so that it would have; but it is an outrage that the consultation mechanism could be downgraded. we welcome the reassurances from commissioner piebalgs that he will keep parliament informed in advance, but we need similar cast-iron reassurances from the council too. nevertheless, being informed is not the same as being consulted. given the serious nature of the questions hanging over the energy community treaty, it would be deeply regrettable if parliament were sidelined. there could effectively be no democratic oversight of this treaty, because it is clear – not least from what the council has said tonight – that the real decisions will be taken by the unelected permanent high level group rather than by ministers themselves.
mr president, buying energy from another country is one thing. the political ramifications in this case are quite another, and here it is a written document that matters. the eu employs the acquis communautaire as one of the founding principles to which all its member states have solemnly signed. how can this be extended to countries which are not even candidates yet? the eu suggests going beyond the acquis communautaire and overriding due process in the event of special circumstances. what are these circumstances? how short are your memories? we heard this excuse before. it led to a conflagration from which we are suffering still and to evils which we still do not comprehend. you may know that i do not wish my country to be part of the eu, but currently it is and i am a democrat. this house of properly-elected deputies should be consulted and should be the final arbiter, deleting the provision requiring the council to consult parliament before adoption of the commission’s position excludes this house from any meaningful debate. this is all about enlargement by the back door. page 6 of the recommendation draws a parallel with the coal and steel community and how it started the eec as it then was. that being the case, why not say so? why keep it secret? excluding parliament, special circumstances decided by an unelected body, secretive motives: all are the beginnings of totalitarianism. no, please do not scoff, because that kind of attitude is exactly how all the demagogues and dictators down the ages got away with it.
rapporteur. – mr president, normally it is ‘ladies first’, but i am delighted to start the process, otherwise we are going to go round in circles. with today’s decision on the shape of the new financial perspective now behind us, we must now look ahead and formulate the broad strategy for implementation in the coming years, whatever its imperfections in terms of balance or level of expenditure allocated. from the outset it is noticeable that the annual policy strategy treats the budget year of 2007 as one of a continuing series in the life of the commission to implement the well-established priorities of prosperity, solidarity, security and europe as a global partner. we take a different view. we do not believe that it is business as usual. on the contrary, we see the 2007 budget as being a real opportunity to set a new strategic tone to the way in which the european union delivers its policy agenda. when reading the document, there is a strong sense of complacency, madam commissioner, a real lack of urgency about how to tackle the global economic political challenges facing the european union. not least, there is no specific mention of the rapid rise of china and india in the global economy. this will undoubtedly affect substantially both internal as well as external policies in the year ahead. if, after all, strategies formulated at regional and local level, such as in the thames valley, include this factor as an urgent priority, why does the commission choose to leave it out? in sum, it reads rather like a routine bureaucratic document without serious political leadership or guidance. running through the report are three interlinked strands. the first is the combined impact of reduced resources under the new financial perspective, and the emergence of new challenges leaves us no option but to set clear priorities in the next budget. these priorities must be focused to reflect the new challenges lying ahead. this is more a process during the life of the financial perspectives than simply in the 2007 budget. in setting policy priorities for external relations, the 2007 budget must lay the groundwork for an increasingly outward-looking european union. our citizens’ security and prosperity will depend on how effectively the union can respond to global challenges in a world very different from that only a decade ago. we should aim in fact to lead, rather than harness, the globalisation process. in these circumstances it is essential for the union to develop a coherent, over-arching strategy which will better define its strategic priorities in the 21st century for the world outside, and that must begin with this budget. secondly, interlinked with the first priority, is that of ensuring security for european citizens in areas such as freedom and security and justice, as well as the specific sector of energy supply that we have just been discussing. no less important for us is the third priority, dealing with internal policies. here we must focus on those areas that are key to europe’s competitiveness and our future prosperity. these include research and innovation, innovative measures for smes, support for lifelong learning for renewing skills and key infrastructure projects. in the light of limitations on the union’s financial resources, we must examine more closely the quality of european union expenditure. the beginning of a new financial perspective offers a significant opportunity for starting a rolling programme for assessing the performance of eu activities. through cost-benefit analyses we will take steps to assess whether specific actions achieve their objectives, what their impact was compared to the quantity of expenditure allocated, and what european added value they contributed. we are convinced that such a focus on quality is essential in order to compensate for a lack of quantity in budgetary means. this would mean deleting programmes if they no longer produce value for money and creating programmes that are more relevant to a changing global environment. it should also mean avoiding the use of public funds, for example in information policy, where eu-financed actions could replace viable, ongoing private initiatives. we believe that parliament must take the initiative to begin preparations for the mid-term review of the next multiannual financial framework planned for 2008. this will allow us to drive forward the comprehensive reassessment of the eu’s revenue and expenditure and shake up the system in order to create momentum for adapting our political priorities. in conclusion, the 2007 budget procedure, as the first budget of the new financial perspective, represents a real opportunity for a broad mobilisation to adjust to the new policy challenges of a fast-changing world. this fits in, madam commissioner, with the commission’s focus on policy by results, but a broader global vision is needed. let us be open to new ideas and provide a strong focus on policy priorities, while improving the eu’s accountability. finally, i will warmly welcome contributions from the outset from all parliamentary committees to establish the sectoral priorities for this budget. i believe we have a great opportunity to shape our future policies together and respond effectively to the demands of european citizens.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on international trade. – mr president, the global challenges facing the european union have never been greater, yet we will have to face these challenges with limited resources. it is therefore vital, as the commission rightly says, that these resources are clearly targeted at our priorities. the committee on international trade fully supports the commission’s efforts to improve policy coherence between the community’s external and internal policies. in our opinion, all new policy initiatives regarding the internal market should be carefully assessed in the light of their external impact. the international trade committee supports the rapporteur in calling for the commission to target resources at the new global challenges we face, particularly the rise of india and china. it wishes to emphasise the contribution that a successful doha round could make to freeing up resources. firstly, the elimination of all forms of agricultural export subsidy by 2013 would bring significant budgetary savings. secondly, a successful round would lead to growth of the european union economy as a whole and therefore help the eu budget grow. a key component in making a success of the doha round is to persuade the developing countries to sign up for doha. in this respect, the eu has recognised that for them to get something out of doha, they need to be linked into the world trading system. at the g8 summit last july, president barroso promised eur 1 billion a year in trade-related assistance. if this is not delivered, the cynicism displayed by the developing countries at wto talks will simply grow. the international trade committee believes that this cannot just be a cosmetic re-labelling of existing aid. it has to be genuinely new money. we would like to suggest both to the rapporteur, in terms of the conclusions the committee draws from this report, and to the commission, that the latter should report to us annually on how it is spending the eur 1 billion that mr barroso promised on trade-related assistance, so that we can see that being delivered on a transparent basis.
mr president, i should like to congratulate mr elles for the annual policy strategy report. i would like to highlight three areas. speaking as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, firstly, i would like to say that i support the rapporteur in urging the commission and member states to focus on areas that are the bases of healthy and thriving modern economies: research and development, innovation, knowledge, skills, telecommunications and energy. effective investment in those areas pays excellent dividends in the long run. the eu cannot be short-sighted and still compete globally and reverse the brain-drain leading to slower economic growth than might otherwise be the case. secondly, i also back the rapporteur when he calls for member states to implement existing and proposed legislation to help complete the single market. the lisbon strategy has not been sufficiently prioritised, despite the fact that it seeks improvement in areas where citizens want progress, like creating growth in jobs. as president barroso told this house in his first address in july 2004, we must show our citizens that europe can deliver what it promises. thirdly, speaking as a member of the committee on budgets, i have to say that i disagree with the emphasis the rapporteur has placed on our strategic partnership with the united states. i believe the eu must build solid and constructive relations with all global players to an equal extent, especially since a very disappointing cut in funding in heading 4 has been proposed by the commissioner in the pdb. that means that our traditional priorities and commitments are being reduced. as well as that, there will be no extra money for new agreements that we have entered into, including an increasingly important strategic partnership with india. since resources are scarce, i ask the commission to make sure that no money is wasted. so can the commission guarantee that the appropriate measures and mechanisms are being put in place, as mr virrankoski highlighted, to ensure effective implementation and full take-up? we do not want to return millions of euros to the member states at the end of the year.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group . – (the speaker spoke irish)i want first of all to thank mrs krehl for her report and for the open and inclusive way in which it was produced. there are some elements i disagree with, but the report goes some way towards bringing a measure of social and environmental balance into the strategic guidelines. it is important for the european parliament to argue strongly for a more balanced set of guidelines and explicitly to reject earmarking and the thinking behind that approach, which would only compound the imbalances inherent now in lisbon and in the present commission guidelines. the championing of lisbon over gothenburg and of some elements of lisbon over others in the commission’s original guidelines is worrying. we must direct the guidelines in a way that reflects the principal function of cohesion policy and the holistic development of europe’s regions, not just business growth. i particularly welcome paragraph 9 of mrs krehl’s report, with its demand that sound partnership between all parties be enshrined in the regulations and guidelines and its support for the strengthening of civil society. i was particularly glad to hear commissioner piebalgs recognise that here this evening. thanks once again and congratulations to mrs krehl on her report.
mr president, the solidarity fund was introduced after devastating floods in the summer of 2002. an attempt is now being made to include terrorist attacks in the list of supposedly natural disasters covered by the fund. as usual, there is an ulterior motive at work here: it appears that disaster relief is to be politicised. mr berend suggests in his report, in the context of terrorist attacks, that the eu should be able to use the fund in such cases as a political signal of solidarity. pandemics are also included, presumably to make the proposal acceptable to a public that is worried about things such as bird flu. it is all a long way from the original intention of the fund. who, therefore, decides what qualifies for it? even mr berend says that it is incomprehensible that the commission can make an arbitrary political assessment, thus calling into question the credentials of the institution that has produced this proposal. once again, we see the confusion and incompetence of the eu in practice. communities that have suffered disasters – natural or manmade – have their national governments to step in and assist. even more likely to come to their aid, in cases of extreme disasters such as the tsunami, is the incredible generosity of the general public. the last thing they need is for that perpetual disaster – the eu – to turn up and make things worse!
in writing. this report on financing development and economic cooperation actions by the eu has been the subject of much debate. as draftsman for the inta committee, i have worked with colleagues to ensure that the future shape of this instrument reflects the progressive gains made by the european parliament over the years in terms of poverty alleviation and empowerment. i believe the parliament was right to reject the original 2004 proposals which prevented the parliament from establishing priorities and allocating funds to concrete programmes. we were also right to reject an open-ended instrument which would prevent parliament from fully co-determining, on a regular basis, the objectives, scope and methods to be employed by the different instruments. i am glad to see we have achieved breakthroughs on review and expiry clauses to allow for better modifications and reporting. i firmly believe that, as the legislative authority, the european parliament must continue to have a role both in the setting of priorities and through a call-back arrangement. our citizens, who have mandated us to set policies and scrutinise the executive, expect no less.
in writing. i support this report. for too long the european union has not paid sufficient attention to the need for a common energy policy. we have spent billions on security of food supplies via the cap, yet nothing on security of energy supplies, leaving the prospect that europe’s future would be, in a crisis, eating raw vegetables in the dark. recent events in russia – and elsewhere – show the importance of energy security. this must become a key element of our foreign policy in cooperation with the world’s other major consumers whether the united states or japan, china or india. at the same time, we must stop tying our hands behind our backs. a tidal barrage across the severn estuary in my own constituency could supply up to 10% of britain’s energy needs from a renewable green scheme with no co2 emissions. yet this scheme could be blocked with its enormous positive benefits by the fine print of the habitats directive leaving the unsafe alternative of nuclear power, which is infinitely more polluting to habitats across the world. we still have farms in the united kingdom that have restrictions on stock movements left over from the chernobyl disaster two decades ago!
in writing. i voted for my colleague richard howitt's report on human rights in the world. in particular, i voted in favour of amendment 12 on the violation of human rights in the western sahara, which was a free vote.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues support the highest standards of human rights in the world. however, the issue of an absolute ban on the death sentence remains a conscience based issue for individual meps. nevertheless, we all condemn the inappropriate and excessive use of the death penalty in countries such as china and iran. we believe that issues of international human rights violations should not be dealt with by the international criminal court but should be convened by un ad hoc tribunals.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues welcome much of what is contained in this report. we support the emphasis on qualitative value for money, the proposals on cost-benefit studies and agree that the commission should be providing greater vision on economic reform. there are some areas of this report that we are unable to support, such as the cfsp text and the references to the new freedom, security and justice agenda. these are areas where the conservative party has had a long-standing opposition to moving to the community method.
in writing. i welcome this report which addresses the commission's strategic priorities for 2007. establishing clear priorities has become increasingly important in the case of the external actions budget heading given the cuts amounting to around 20% in funds committed. more than ever the trade dimension continues to impact on domestic political priorities in the budget. if the doha round is successfully concluded, the conditional agreement on the definitive elimination of all forms of agricultural export subsidies by 2013 would translate into incremental yearly ec budget savings that are estimated to be around eur 3 500-4 000 million per year, depending on internal and world market prices, as of 2013. as rapporteur for a forthcoming report on trade-related assistance and draftsman for the annual strategic priorities, i have called for greater transparency in the funding of the so-called 'barroso' billion, committed to support the trading capacity of developing countries. this pledge should not involve cosmetic re-labelling of funds given to infrastructure. the commission must commit to producing an annual report on aid for trade to enable parliament to scrutinise these funds and assure that they are truly additional.
in writing. as with the estrela report, i do not believe that there is practical or financial justification for creating an agency on drought and floods. other forms of environmental action on floods are urgently required.
in writing. i voted for the estrela report on the environmental aspects of natural disasters, but against the creation of a special agency on drought and floods. i believe there is no justification for creating such an agency and no budget either.
author. – mr president, i warmly welcome the long overdue return to democratic rule in nepal. the saarc delegation and i, as its chairman, have been concerned since the imposition of direct rule by the king, and have worked with the troika to promote a return to democracy. finally this has taken place. the new government faces many challenges, including limiting the king’s power and bringing the military under democratic control. i therefore welcome the fact that today they are already discussing a new role for the monarchy, which i hope will prevent any kind of return to the disruption to democracy that we saw over the last year. the main priority for my delegation is to see the establishment of lasting peace, and maoist cooperation is pivotal to achieving this. the fact that the ceasefire has been respected is an indication that the right environment for peace talks is being created. however, i call on the maoists to demonstrate their genuine commitment to stop recruiting militia, to put an end to any extortion and to return confiscated land. both sides need to make the ceasefire permanent and to enter into a constructive dialogue as soon as possible, with the aim of holding free and fair elections and putting the maoists on the same footing as the other political parties. i support what mr mulder said in terms of the european union’s role and how we ensure that we get lasting peace in nepal.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i think we need to be positive. mr posselt, who spoke just a moment ago, was far too negative. we should echo what mr mulder said and look on the events of the last few weeks as a turn for the better. we in the european parliament and the eu as a whole must do all we can to support the moves towards democracy. as the resolution says, we must continue to highlight minority rights, and, as we did this morning, we should vote so as to support the ideas in the howitt report. we should support the government to make certain there is democratic control of the military, and reinforce the call made by my colleague, mrs gill, for lasting peace. if this is to be successful, we in the european parliament must do everything we can to address the root causes of the conflict in nepal and ensure that there is much greater economic prosperity and much better redistribution of wealth throughout nepal. that would be positive and could be the route to lasting success.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think it is clear after this debate that there is broad agreement in this house that nepal may just be starting to turn the corner and there may for once, after ten long years of war, be a sign of hope. nepal’s problems demonstrate the weakness of the eu, but the recent reinstatement of democracy gives us the opportunity to demonstrate our strengths. in the absence of a collective will to find a solution in nepal, we cannot impose one. but now we have the opportunity to guide, to assist and to advise all the democratic forces in nepal as they continue their long, tortuous journey towards a multi-party democracy and respect for human rights. this resolution contains a number of worthy ideas, in particular the establishment of an international contact group and continued engagement of the international community within nepal, guiding all these democratic forces. we must continue to support the democratic growth of nepal. we cannot criticise and we must have a clean pair of hands in our negotiations with all parties in that country. i commend every mechanism within this resolution to the house and i hope to hear from the commissioner that the commission will continue to support us in this aim.
author. – mr president, as in any conflict there are abuses on all sides, but the urgent resolution before the house this afternoon quite properly focuses on the appalling activities of a terrorist organisation, the ltte. the ltte is interested in one thing and one thing only, and that is political power. it does not represent all of the tamil people in sri lanka. it certainly does not speak for them. its murderous campaign has not improved their situation one iota. on the contrary, the tamils, like all the other people of sri lanka, continue to suffer casualties, economic hardship and disruptive lives because of the uncertain and dangerous security situation. i hope it is not too late for the ltte to pull back from the brink. at the beginning of this year there had been optimism that the ceasefire agreement would be reinforced and that substantial progress towards peace would be achieved. the failure of the ltte to agree to a second round of geneva negotiations and its resumption of a terrorist campaign have removed this hope. it is imperative that the ltte is held to account for its actions and that further international pressure is brought to bear on it at this time. unlike mr pflüger, i therefore urge the eu to add the ltte to its list of proscribed terrorist organisations. i do not see this as a hindrance to future negotiations, but as a major incentive for the ltte to stop the violence. at the same time, this ban must be backed by effective action by member states to prevent funds and other support reaching the ltte. human rights watch, a highly respected international ngo, has testified to the intimidation, extortion and physical violence that has been inflicted on tamils living in britain and other countries in order to suppress criticism and ensure a steady flow of income. every eu country where there is a tamil community should establish special police taskforces to investigate and prosecute the agents of the ltte, as well as freezing bank accounts linked to them. this should be seen as another dimension to the war on terrorism. for its part, the ltte should immediately impose a ceasefire, give up its child soldiers, stop its suicide bombings, and agree to return to the conference table in a positive and constructive spirit. that is the greatest service it could provide to the tamils and all the people of sri lanka.
author. – mr president, we all hoped that the talks held in geneva in february involving the sri lankan government and the ltte might have been the beginning of a road towards peace, only for the tamil tigers, as we all know, to pull out of the second round of the negotiations. we all, of course, urged them to return to the negotiating table – i say all of us, but if we ban them they will not be able to do that – because a political solution is the only hope. already ltte delegations to eu member states will not be received. the council, as i have said, is considering listing the ltte as a terrorist organisation. surely it can see that will probably happen if there is any more violence and it will just be isolated even further. negotiation is the only way forward, but negotiation should involve all groups, including other tamil organisations – peaceful tamil organisations, such as the tamil united liberation front, for instance. the government must also play its part and it is certainly not blameless in this. both sides have violated the ceasefire. both sides have, i believe, committed gross violations of human rights. i call on the sri lankan government, for instance, to investigate fully and to prosecute cases of extra-judicial killing. it says it is investigating, but i want a full investigation. i want it to reinstate the human rights commission. on the other hand, i want the tamil tigers to cease their violence completely, stop using child soldiers and return the child soldiers they are using to their families. only if all parties show restraint that will we prevent further violence, otherwise it is the ordinary citizens, yet again, who will suffer.
author. – mr president, this joint resolution contains many points and i, like others, support some and have reservations about others. we all condemn the violence taking place in sri lanka and we all bemoan the loss of life. we have highlighted the points we have in common and, having worked on a joint resolution, i really regret the inflammatory remarks made a few minutes ago by mr van orden, who seems to have made a ‘hit-and-run’ contribution and left the chamber. it shows a fundamental misunderstanding not just of the process in this house but also of the severity of the situation and of the way forward. mrs lynne highlighted a couple of points that need to be re-emphasised, for instance, for a peace process to be successful, all parties have to be involved in it. perhaps we were wrong to talk in the resolution only of the ltte and the government, when there are plenty of other organisations. there have been too many unexplained deaths in sri lanka, whether it was that of foreign minister lakshman kadirgamar or the tamil mp joseph pararajasingham, both of whom i and others had met and both of whom had been present in this chamber. we hear about many deaths, but too many go unreported. we must give full support to the peace process, but we must recognise, as mr pflüger and others have said, that unfortunately, in a civil conflict like this, a lot of people are involved. we need them all around the table and we cannot apportion blame beforehand. paragraph 17 on prescription will have a serious and negative impact on the process.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, my colleague, mrs lynne, asked for a new human rights commission to be set up in sri lanka and i am very pleased to announce that the president yesterday did just that, in anticipation, i suppose, of our resolution in this parliament. the human rights commission is now up and running. i think it was winston churchill who said that ‘jaw-jaw is always better than war-war’. what we have to do is continue talking. there is no final military solution to this conflict, which has now raged in the country of my birth for over 25 years. thousands of people have died and, with no possibility of a military solution, we must negotiate and talk until a commonality of interest is found. who should do the talking? the european union is a co-chair and i am led to believe that the council has decided to ban the ltte as a terrorist organisation. but we must continue to talk and the eu and the co-chairs, including norway, in consultation with india, now have the role of peacemakers. we have to bring peace to the island. the intransigence of the ltte, which periodically talks peace and then goes back to war, has got to stop. the international community is not going to be fooled anymore by this stop-go, stop-go process. i would like to thank my colleagues in this parliament for the cooperation and understanding they have shown in this matter. (applause)
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i should like to express my great concern about the breakdown of the peace process in sri lanka. i would appeal to all parties to renounce the vicious cycle of violence and to approach this dispute constructively. all parties must abandon violence once and for all. after an encouraging return to the negotiating table in february, the ltte’s refusal to participate in the second round in april was very disappointing. the ltte needs to resume peace negotiations with the government of sri lanka, and the government too must be careful not to jeopardise the very delicate peace process. in my view the commission needs to play a more proactive role to enable this process to move forward. the european union, as we have heard, is a co-chair, but we appear to be playing a rather passive role, rather than seeing ourselves as dynamic players. i believe that together with the other co-chairs – the usa, norway and japan – we should urgently consider how we can strengthen norway’s role as facilitator, in order to make positive progress towards a peaceful resolution and to get an agreed roadmap to end this conflict. the european union is pouring enormous resources into sri lanka. we need to get some real results to ensure that the lives of the people there are remarkably improved.
mr president, taiwan is a prosperous, peaceful, democratic country which upholds high standards of human rights and the rule of law and threatens no-one. its citizens enjoy some of the best healthcare provisions in asia. for some time, going back to the sars epidemic three years ago, taiwan has attempted to gain observer status in the world health organisation. regrettably, the people’s republic of china has used every available means to block this. taiwan deserves better. it already faces an immensely hostile military build-up by china, which last year passed the anti-secession law, escalating the degree of confrontation across the taiwanese straits. taiwan, like hong kong, is already a full member of the wto, as the people’s republic of china saw commercial advantage in having it in the organisation. its current opposition to taiwan’s who bid – and of course taiwan would be a key player in preventing any future bird flu pandemic, should that arise – is frankly inconsistent and makes china look like a big bully.
mr president, i need no lessons in politics from meps who have been reported as singing a horst wessel song in the past. i have three points to make. firstly, this resolution is an abuse of our rules of procedure. rule 115 is not intended to be used in this way. if it were, i would have attempted to raise the issue of the sadly mismanaged primary healthcare trust in west gloucestershire closing two out of two local hospitals in lydney and cinderford. we all know what this is about: it is an attempt to undermine by creeping resolution our one-china policy – a perfectly reasonable political position, which i do not happen to support. let us have an honest debate about it rather than hide within the trojan horse of supposed healthcare issues. the resolution is a serious one: it is true that parliament has previously supported taiwanese observer status at the wha – not the who. secondly, the global outbreak alert and response network comprises a series of 40 different institutions from amongst the almost 200 member states of the who. there is no universality, so there is no taiwan gap. in fact, a number of ngos with taiwanese membership are members of goarn and, therefore, they have no shortage of information. thirdly, given the quarter to half a million taiwanese immigrants in shanghai alone who regularly travel between china and taiwan, it is hard to imagine that the chinese would take any risks of them bringing in diseases from taiwan.
mr president, given that yesterday the government of sri lanka announced the formation of a human rights commission, could we make an oral correction to our joint resolution? paragraph 11 of the resolution states: ‘calls on the commission and the government of sri lanka to ensure the reactivation of sri lanka’s human rights commission’. we would like to replace that with the following: ‘welcomes, therefore, the announcement of new members of sri lanka’s human rights commission’.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is hard to respond in just four minutes to such a tour de force about the future of europe. my group welcomes the presence here of mr verhofstadt, both as a prime minister and as one of the major architects of european reform. as you recognised, prime minister, in the laeken declaration in 2001, the european union has been talking more to itself than to its citizens. yet five years after your presidency, the task of reconnecting europe with its citizens still shows too little evidence of progress. indeed, just yesterday a survey showed that 82% – more than four in five – of our fellow citizens feel that government at european level fails to communicate with them. despite the year-long period of reflection – and eight months into the commission’s much vaunted plans – little has been broadcast beyond the bastions of the berlaymont. however, the same survey might hold the seeds of hope, for though europe may not be brilliant at communicating what it does, that survey shows that our citizens still trust the european institutions to do it. in fact, more of them trust the european institutions than their own national governments. so here is europe’s mandate from the people: a mandate to deliver the reforms needed to meet challenges like energy security, migration, climate change and organised crime, which individual member states struggle to deal with under the current set-up. greater coordination of economic policies, as you recommended, mr verhofstadt, would certainly help, as would greater defence coordination. mr barroso has pointed to the need for practical achievements to reinforce our links with citizens and rally them to our cause. but this ‘europe of projects’ can never get off the ground until member state governments explain to their people what they are doing together in brussels and why, and until we give the union the money and the legal powers to push through initiatives like the common energy policy, which faces an uphill struggle against blocking forces in the council, as too do many other initiatives in the field of justice and home affairs, for example, where the absence of qualified majority voting so often results in stalemate. quibbling over the passerelle clause in the treaty will resolve little, and change rests, in any case, on the same unanimity which has led to inaction up to now. as you said, prime minister, it is the constitution – as practical as it is ideological – that can best put the institutional building blocks in place to move europe forward. it is all very well for mr schulz to rail against it, but it was his socialists in france who helped to kill the constitution in that referendum. (mixed reactions) we need to make our period of reflection a period of analysis, producing proposals on how to proceed. this month’s interparliamentary conference on the future of europe kick-started the process. today’s sitting is the logical extension, and let us hear more debates with national leaders. on europe day, estonia became the fifteenth state to ratify the constitution and finland will soon follow. to me, that treaty looks far from dead, and with the political courage of leaders like guy verhofstadt, angela merkel and romano prodi – leaders committed to europe – then europe’s future is surely brighter. as the prime minister told us, we have a lot of work to do. however, we have the people of europe behind us in our task, because they recognise, however much some of our national leaders like to deny it, that the big problems we face, the major challenges of globalisation – population growth and migration, climate change, internationally organised crime – cannot be dealt with by nation states built on the 18th-century concept of military industrial power; they require us to overcome our tribal and our religious hatreds and to work together for the future of all our citizens on a planet which we share with many others. (applause from the right and the center)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, to call this a debate about the future of europe is frankly farcical. what we have here is rather the self-serving political elite talking amongst themselves. they could not be epitomised better than by a person like mr verhofstadt. i must say i find it a bit rich for the prime minister of belgium to come along here and tell 24 other nation states what they should do. i say that because perhaps he ought to look a bit more in his own back yard. the most recent opinion poll in belgium – or should i say in flanders – shows that 51% of people there favour independence from the belgian state. the vlaams belang is now the biggest political party in flanders. is it, mr verhofstadt, because you are so embarrassed and ashamed that your own country is falling to pieces, that you come along here to encourage the rest of us to self-destruct as well? i am not sure. i suppose there was at least a certain honesty about your speech, because you are an unashamed euro-nationalist. you could not give a damn what ordinary people think. you could not give a damn about the referendum results in france and in the netherlands last year. you said yourself today – in that most incredibly arrogant speech – that the whole process of political integration will continue regardless of what the people say. what you are doing is threatening the very basis of national self-determination and democracy. in the last century, this principle was thought to be so important that if you look in your own back yard, you will see the graves of many british soldiers who went to defend that very principle, on which you now seem to have turned your back. it was clear last year! what is it about you, mr verhofstadt? what part of the word ‘no’ do you not understand? (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, the prime minster said that we should try for the four-fifths of member states before the european council would be able to – or should – discuss the crisis. but the european council could, and in my view should, discuss the crisis today. in june, the summit should set itself a rendezvous with a clear decision towards the end of 2007, to establish a fresh intergovernmental conference with the purpose of modifying and improving the treaty. it should seek to ring-fence the first and second parts. in part three, it should focus on strengthening the economic governance of the union, advancing the lisbon agenda and strengthening the autonomy of the eurozone. secondly, it should seek to reform the european social model. thirdly, it should aim to upgrade the combating of climate change to establish a good context for the reform of the common agricultural policy and the construction of a common energy policy. fourthly, it should speak of the process and threshold of adhesion and flesh out the policy on neighbourhood, which we have in draft form. finally, it should complete the revision of the financial system of the eu, to produce a fair, transparent and buoyant budget that will permit us to match financial resources to our policy objectives.
mr president, if ever i doubted the validity of my euroscepticism, today i discovered that 45 turgid minutes of eurofanaticism from the prime minister of belgium was the perfect antidote. the speech demonstrated that the political elites’ claim to be listening to the people of europe is as phoney as the latest suggestion of a cosmetic stunt of dropping the title ‘constitution’. france and holland emphatically rejected the constitution, so we slapped a gagging order on the countries which it was feared might also say ‘no’. though it was called a period of reflection, its effect was to stop votes in sceptical countries. however, where ratification was assured, it was pushed through, and every time there was such a meaningless exercise, europhiles were on hand to jump up and make the crass assertion ‘you see! the constitution is not dead!’. it is easy to win the game when you lock up the opposition in the changing room. the last eurobarometer poll showed the european project has never been less loved. with citizens seeking less europe, this house and our guest today arrogantly demand more europe, more eu competences, more majority voting, more centralisation, more and more and more! why do you not listen? stop digging! heed the clamour for more state rights, not centralisation; more local control, not ‘brusselisation’. face up to it: the goal of ever-closer, stultifying political union is simply unobtainable!
mr president, prime minister, sadly i have to decline the generous request for solidarity on the constitution, but i am glad that we can now have a serious debate on the future of europe. europe needs a debate and european leaders need to hear and understand what people are saying to them, especially following the meeting of foreign ministers at the weekend. apparently no one at that meeting pronounced the constitution dead. however, the dutch foreign minister has said on a number of occasions that following the ‘no’ vote in his country’s referendum last year, that is in fact the position. who is right? we need to know. the ministers agreed to let the discussion run for at least another year. i think that is a mistake. no one seriously believes that the constitution can credibly be presented again to the peoples of france and the netherlands, who have already spoken. that would only serve to fuel the sense among our peoples that the eu remains oblivious to their concerns and priorities. the whole point of the laeken declaration in 2001 was that the eu needed to find ways of getting closer to its citizens and making the institutions more transparent and accountable. the constitution sadly failed those basic tests. however, i am glad that the foreign ministers agreed that there would be no constitutional cherry-picking while the debate goes on. of course the future of the eu is a very important subject: the kind of europe we want to live in is important for our countries and peoples. i have a very positive vision of a europe of nation states working ever more closely together. i want to see the eu move on to a new agenda: a reforming agenda that tackles effectively the sense of alienation between the institutions of brussels; a reforming agenda that works for fundamental economic reform through liberalisation and more open markets, and puts growth at the forefront of its priorities. i also want to see greater and more effective intergovernmental cooperation in tackling environmental challenges and fighting the scourge of terrorism. the great error of europe’s leaders is to assume that none of the great challenges facing us can be met without a constitution. i think that they can.
mr president, this debate has been a clash of two pessimisms. on the one hand, there is the pessimism of the most enthusiastic europeans, who sometimes speak as if the european union were in terminal crisis; as if very little has been achieved over the last 50 years; as if it is just a free-trade area and that we still need to build a political europe, as if what we have is somehow not political. on the other hand, there are the fears and the pessimisms of the anti-europeans, who seem to think that we have already built not just a federal system, but a centralised superstate with everything being decided not just in this parliament, but by the commission. neither fear is an accurate representation of reality. the reality is that the union has a solid set of achievements to its credit, but with shortcomings. the constitution was intended to address these shortcomings with sets of reforms that, although not very radical, would be useful. surely it is right that we take the time to complete the period of reflection and try first to save the constitution – or most of it – before calling for a two-speed europe and going down that road. tempting as it is to build europe without france, it would surely be better to try to bring france on board first.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i welcome the council and commission statements. however, the council must now put real pressure on the american government at the eu-us summit next month to close down guantánamo bay once and for all. it must either release prisoners if there is no evidence against them, or try them under international law. anything else will be a travesty of justice. how many more reports do we have to read about gross violations of human rights? the latest one from the committee against torture makes the point again: that torture techniques, which should be abhorrent to any decent person, are still being used. we heard these allegations from my constituent moazzam begg, who was released last year, and we have heard them in successive reports. we also, as you quite rightly said, need to have answers about whether dozens of children have been incarcerated there, as has been alleged recently. the council must be tough and not let the american government off the hook. as far as mr coveney is concerned, i would say, on behalf of my group, that we would not like to see a postponement of this resolution.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, the us experienced its first serious terrorist attack on 9/11. its response was entitled ‘a war on terrorism’ – a highly dubious military proposition. for decades, britain experienced sustained terrorist attacks launched from the irish mainland. those terrorists were substantially funded by us citizens. the us government was instrumental in forcing the british government to capitulate in the face of that terrorist campaign. now the us is at risk, a different double standard applies: the us government believes that it has the right to disregard the geneva convention and all civilised standards and to kidnap, detain, abuse and torture terrorist suspects. some of those suspects are british citizens. they may be completely innocent or they may be guilty. who knows? no evidence is produced, no trials take place. if they are real terrorists, then let them face justice and not languish in a detention camp that the americans do not even dare to put within their own country.
madam president, speaking as the constituency mep for a dozen former and existing guantánamo bay residents, i welcome that at last we are hearing a squeak of protest about guantánamo bay from eu foreign ministers. one press report of last weekend’s agreement to make a request to the us to close guantánamo said: ‘ministers agreed that europe can no longer ignore the extensive international criticism of the camp’. it is not exactly ahead of the curve to take four and a half years to make only an informal request. as i understand it, we still have no formal declaration, no common position, and no joint action. however, we are grateful that foreign ministers have finally caught up with world opinion. i welcome the public statement here today by the president-in-office calling for the camp to close. what we have heard today should have been heard over the last four years. the best way that eu member states could launch the constructive goal-orientated dialogue with the us – which mrs plassnik called for and i agree we need – would be to help this parliament establish the truth about the extraordinary rendition programme and european complicity in it. i hope that in your response, president-in-office, you will say that you will help us establish that truth. the goal that we should seek jointly with the americans is a return to full respect for international law, not a dilution of it.
mr president, i would like to thank erika mann for all her work on this report and for her willingness and openness to at least consider other perspectives and views. however, i do still have some concerns about it. firstly, there is at least a question mark over whether now is the right time, politically, to be advancing a policy of what is essentially a bilateral free trade area. we are in a time when the multilateral system is in crisis. we have therefore to consider what political message we are sending by doing that. secondly, my concern is that by pursuing extremely controversial issues such as the liberalisation of investment, public procurement and services in a projected transatlantic free trade area, other countries could well perceive that as the eu and us setting the stage for transferring the negotiations over to the global level. as you know, they have been extremely highly contested in the wto framework. finally, on the issue of regulation and harmonisation, in spite of amendments and some nice rhetoric to the contrary, there is a risk that we will see a levelling down – rather than a levelling up – of hard-won environmental health and consumer standards.
mr president, nobody has mentioned galileo – the european union’s direct competitor to the americans’ gps system – in which the chinese have a 20% stake; a decision which has the potential to destabilise future arms production and threaten the maintenance of peace. galileo is a hugely ambitious and expensive attempt by the eu to rival the us as a fully-fledged global and space power, why else duplicate gps? the eu has no legal right to set up its own space programme – that depended on ratification of the failed constitution. however, such niceties are being ignored. the eu wants its own satellites to be a part of future military operations, and is not prepared to wait. since all future battlefield weapons will be navigated by satellite, it is obvious that europe will be helping china to rearm. with its commitments in japan, taiwan and south-east asia, can the united states be anything other than wary of anyone complicit in rearming china?
mr president, i quote from a recent article in the british press: ‘britain’s booming wine industry will be scuppered by eu regulations that want to prohibit growers in britain, all of them unsubsidised, from planting any more vines if their sales continue to soar’. growers – many of them in my region – have been calling on the commission to increase the threshold or scrap it altogether. just what is it about english wine that becomes so intimidating? is it that when tasted blind with french wines and others, english wines come out on top for taste, thus our competitors are simply jealous? or is it because there are regions in other eu countries producing hugely subsidised grapes that will never produce decent wine? or is it just that when the eu sees something successful, it has to interfere, regulate and destroy it? can you wonder why more and more folk want nothing to do with the eu when it destroys their livelihoods?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, one of the most important achievements of the 20th century was the lifting of millions out of poverty. the emergence of china and india on the global trading scene played a huge role in this feat and they continue to lead the developing world by example. but the challenge is far from over. even today, 49% of the population in ldcs still live on less than a dollar a day. by 2015, 471 million of them will be living in extreme poverty. trade liberalisation is vital if we are to lift these people out of devastating poverty. but trade is not a magic bullet. the critical challenge is how to promote poverty reduction in a newly-liberalised open economy. the majority of ldcs are still galloping in the dark in this regard. free trade is not the same as laissez-faire. the fundamental priority must be for governments to implement macro-economic strategies that integrate trade in a way that effectively supports poverty reduction. we must help them to do this through increasing assistance and improving its effectiveness. this is not basic aid plunging the developing world into further debt: this is investment – investment in infrastructure, technology, human capital and the global trading system itself. finally, in return, we will enjoy greater openness and competitiveness and the ldcs will benefit from greater capital accumulation and technological progress. these will form the engine of growth. international trade will be the fuel for that engine, and together we can accelerate towards attaining the millennium development goals.
on behalf of the pse group . – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his very thorough work on this report. i applaud louis grech on the emphasis on improving the effective use of the funds. for this reason, i strongly support the introduction of activity-based budgeting. i have been asking for this system to be adopted by the parliament for the last five years, as it provides an opportunity to demonstrate greater transparency. i have been disappointed, however, by the reluctance of the administration to introduce such a system and i think it is about time we did so. therefore, i would ask the secretary-general to take this issue up very seriously and see what progress we can make on that front. the second issue i want to raise is the annual question of the car service. i do not go along with what is in the report, namely to increase the support of additional funds for the chauffeur service for the members. i support the amendment that the verts/ale group has put forward, which is to look at the service and see how we can improve it without increasing the funds. we do not need to start increasing funds, especially when we have taxi reimbursement available for members. on information and communication, we cannot stress enough the need for results that are essential for us to connect with the citizens. i thoroughly support the suggestions of having web tv and an improved visitors’ centre.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleague the rapporteur mr vidal-quadras for all his hard work in producing this report. however, i would also like to commiserate with him because some of our colleagues have displayed a lack of efficiency in their rather profligate use of words in pursuit of the worthy aims of this report. in having too many words, there is a risk of losing focus on what we wish to achieve. however, i would like to congratulate mr vidal-quadras very much on the splendid set of amendments which he has produced with the other shadow rapporteurs in compromise. it is wonderful to see so much text being cut out of a report, and i support him strongly. we need realism in pursuit of our aims for efficiency. efficiency is essential; the issue is how we achieve it and how soon we can achieve it.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, this is a report brimming with recommendations, but i want to make just one point. we must not be under-ambitious on energy efficiency. we are dealing with an evolving set of circumstances, and the technology is developing so fast that last years’ top energy-efficient appliance becomes next year’s rather mediocre model. but even more significantly, the economic calculation is changing almost daily. as mrs rothe said, when the commission published its green paper it based its target of 20% energy saving by 2020 on an oil price of usd 30 a barrel, but by the time the report passed through the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy (itre), oil prices stood at usd 70 a barrel. it will not be very long before member states bring forward their national energy efficiency action plans. as you said commissioner, 1% a year now seems far too low a target to be aiming for. i welcome very much the comments you made to that effect. i hope that the commission will take a strong line and ensure that those national action plans are ambitious both in scope and in implementation, given what is now realistically and viably achievable.
mr president, i am very worried indeed about this report: it introduces the concept of positive discrimination. i have to say, as usual, that i have never heard so much nonsense talked in my life as i have today. clearly, nobody here has any experience of the armed forces. i spent a lot of time in the british army and i am a member of the united kingdom’s armed forces committee. i can tell you that i have been at sea recently on board her majesty’s ships with women who are navigation officers, aviators, filling all sorts of very complex and senior roles within the british armed forces. how would you feel if you were the captain of a ship and you have a navigating officer joining you who is a lieutenant commander and a female? could you trust her or not? is she there because she is good at her job, or is she there because she is part of a quota? let us stop this silly nonsense from people with no experience of the armed forces at all!
mr president, i should like to place on record that, when we started voting less than an hour ago, there were 621 members voting in the chamber; at the last roll call vote there were 405 – 216 members have left the chamber during voting time. we have no confidence in this ridiculous voting system.
rapporteur. – mr president, you are quite right, i was at a meeting in luxembourg this morning and had to dash back for this vote. i am therefore grateful, in one sense, that the vote was deferred. on the other hand, however, no one could perhaps have foreseen such a catastrophic reduction in the numbers present. i will be guided by your services, but if memory serves me correctly, there is a rule by which i can request deferral of the final vote until the next voting time. if that is the case, i would like to so request. (applause)
in writing. i fully support all initiatives to foster the development and growth of the sme sector in developing countries. however, this report could not be supported because the implementation of eu practices and policies has in many cases resulted in the impoverishment of developing countries. ukip strongly believes developing countries would be better served by agreements with individual nation states.
in writing. i support this resolution and the commitment by the commission and council to deal with palestine’s duly elected government, even if its politics are other than we might wish. no good can come from driving palestine into financial chaos and ruin. europe's policy should serve as an example to the us and others as to how to proceed in future. i did not support the inclusion of paragraph 9 in the resolution, however. while i have and will continue to support demands for an immediate halt to further extension of the settlements - or rather their dismantling - and no further building of the wall, i feel it does not fit well here, where we are essentially dealing with a very different issue.
in writing. british conservatives voted against paragraph 9 as the use of the word "condemnation" did not appear in any other part of the text dealing with, for instance, hamas' support for recent terrorist attacks. furthermore, the issue of the settlements and the controversial status of east jerusalem are not directly related to the humanitarian crisis in the palestinian territories. lastly, the security fence which has considerably reduced the number of terrorist suicide bombing missions into israel proper is not necessarily the final border of the two states. it has already been moved by orders of israel's supreme court to accommodate local palestinians' needs. the final course it takes will depend upon the successful negotiated outcome to the peace process.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues support strong transatlantic relations, both politically and economically. however, the issue of an absolute ban on the death sentence remains a conscience-based issue for individual meps. nevertheless, we all condemn the inappropriate and excessive use of the death penalty in countries such as china and iran. we believe that issues of crimes against international humanitarian law should not be dealt with by the international criminal court but should be dealt with by un ad hoc tribunals. furthermore, we do not believe that an immediate closure of guantanamo bay is desirable or feasible while the war on terrorism remains a priority for both the united states and the european union. however, in the longer term it would be in the us's interest to do so.
in writing. i would congratulate my colleague, erika mann, on her report on eu-us economic relations. yet while doing so i would enter a reservation. i have always taken the line that the deepening of the union is as important, if not more important, than its widening. here there is the call for the creation of a free-trade area with the us by 2015. i am not against it in principle. it really depends on other developments. i have not been fighting to protect a social dimension to the union, vital for ordinary europeans, to allow it to be sold out via the back door by the creation of a gigantic free trade area. i have always told progressive and trade union opponents in the og of nafta that they are missing the point. they should not be opposing close economic integration with mexico, canada, which will inevitably accompany globalisation, but rather demand its democratisation through the creation of a nafta parliamentary assembly to promote a social dimension.
in writing. i welcome the langen report, yet from a british perspective it fills me with dread. already, our failure to join the single currency area is costing us billions in inward investment and tens of thousands of jobs. the 10 new member states are already eager to join, as they voted for in the separate and unanimously positive referenda before accession. it will be a sad day for britain, its people and its economy when the likes of slovenia and lithuania, estonia and malta adopt the euro, while britain languishes on the sidelines adrift from the world's most successful currency, tossed to and fro by a eurogroup making decisions vital to our economy, but independent of our input and indifferent to our interests.
in writing. i welcome this report which discusses the role that trade policy has played and could potentially play towards development and alleviating poverty while taking into account the complexity of the relation between the two. the salient issues of the report focus on the fact that whilst there has been a general rise of gdp per capita on a global scale, there has also been an increase in the number of people living beneath the poverty line. the report therefore considers that a radical change of policy is needed both in developed and developing countries in order to alleviate the problems behind this perpetual increase in poverty. the message is therefore very clear: when we are considering the merits of liberalisation we should not lose sight of the concrete reality of the gaps in wealth in the world today.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues are strong supporters of equality of opportunity for all women, including romani women across europe. however, we have abstained on this report today as we do not support the proliferation of new eu agencies and institutes (as outlined in paragraph 1) that will add to the burden of the taxpayer and increase bureaucracy without any proven benefit to the people they are supposed to serve.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues are strong supporters of providing support to victims of sexual abuse and other crimes during and after conflict. we support measures outlined in this report including prosecuting those responsible for genocide and war crimes and other crimes mentioned in this report. however, we have abstained on this report today because we do not support the principle of arbitrary quotas of men or women in any sphere, including what is suggested in this report. this principle of quotas, we believe, is demeaning to women.
mr president, when president bush comes to europe on 21 june for the eu-us summit, i urge you to do all you can to ensure that guantánamo is top of the agenda. after four years of incarceration in a legal limbo, three men detained there took their own lives over the weekend. the us deputy assistant secretary of state for public diplomacy described these suicides crassly and disrespectfully as a ‘good public relations move’. the european union, the united nations, human rights groups around the world, have demanded that guantánamo be closed. from president bush we need to know how and when. the supreme court in the united states will rule at the end of the month on whether military commissions are a legal way to try prisoners. i urge that everything the union can do to bring pressure on president bush be done to ensure that the camp is closed, so that people can be given proper trials if there are legitimate charges against them. (applause)
mr president, the dangers posed to traditional british liberties by the european arrest warrant are demonstrated by the case of my constituent, malcolm cubin. mr cubin is one of three divers threatened with extradition to spain on charges of damaging spanish heritage and stealing artefacts from a wreck. mr cubin maintains that those are trumped-up charges and that no evidence has been produced to substantiate them. it used to be that prima facie evidence had to be submitted to a british court before a british citizen could be extradited. the crime in question had to be recognised as such and a proper legal system had to be recognised in the country requesting extradition. all those safeguards are now gone and, providing the extradition form has been filled out correctly, a british citizen can be shipped off with as little ceremony as posting a parcel. the british government should refuse to allow mr cubin and his colleagues to be extradited until proper evidence has been produced and it is satisfied there will be a fair hearing.
mr president, i should like to bring to the attention of the house that a second poultry processing industry has closed down in my constituency in the last two weeks, with the loss of 300 to 400 jobs. that comes after a loss of 600 jobs in a small place like northern ireland. when i enquired about the reason for this, i was told in no uncertain terms that it was mainly because of cheap imports from thailand and brazil. we have serious questions to ask ourselves in europe. i believe very strongly that there must be strict standards for food and how chickens are produced. europe cannot and must not stand by and allow our producers to be forced out of the market. we need clear labelling to show where food is produced. we must give the consumer the choice. let us at least give our farmers, our producers, half a chance to solve this problem.
mr president, i rise to make a plea on behalf of one of my constituents in the shetland isles in scotland, against the inhumane actions of the united kingdom government. sakchai makow is a new scot and a new shetlander. he is originally from thailand but grew up in the shetlands. he speaks little thai and has no friends or family left in thailand. in 2004 he committed the serious crime of wilful fire-raising. he went to jail, served his time, repaid his debt to society and was welcomed back into the shetland community with open arms. following a dawn raid, in which he was snatched from his home in shetland, he is now in a high-security english jail under threat of deportation. this is largely because the united kingdom home office is making a poorly-advised bid to crack down on alleged illegal immigrants with criminal records, mainly in order to look tough for the tabloid media, based in south-east england. i consider that sakchai makow’s human rights have been infringed solely to play to an agenda which is unhealthy, undemocratic and, dare i say it, un-european. i will be raising these breaches of human rights with the eu authorities and hope that you, mr president, as a friend of scotland and of human rights, will support us. sakchai is a new scot and a new shetlander. a london-based minister should not be able to throw him out of the country just to look tough.
mr president, as the last speaker, may i take the opportunity to use my minute to pay tribute to you for the way you organise the one-minute speeches, in the sense that you try to bring in as many members as possible and those who have not spoken recently. however, your efforts are slightly undermined by the large number of people who put down their names to speak and then fail to turn up. perhaps you could ask the relevant parliamentary committee to look into this, to look at the rules of procedure and perhaps draw an analogy with question time – when a member does not turn up for question time, he or she loses the right to table another question for a certain period. perhaps that would encourage more discipline. perhaps, too, we might actually put this item on parliament’s agenda. people in the gallery, or people watching us on the web-streaming, must be very puzzled as to what we are doing at the moment, because it is not on the agenda. they must wonder which debate we are actually on. perhaps that should be rectified and this item put where it belongs: on the agenda.
rapporteur. – mr president, when i was made first vice-chairman of the petitions committee, colleagues said to me that it would be rather like being the gate-keeper of a cemetery: i would see a lot going in, but not much coming out. i am pleased to report, especially during last year’s activities, that we have seen a lot going in and a great deal more coming out. a cemetery it certainly is not; it is alive and kicking and due to get livelier. it is probably one of the most important committees in the house. some would say that, as first vice-chairman, i would say that; but i honestly believe it to be true. it is the direct interface between the institution and the citizens – citizens often seeking redress for problems that arise at member state level. i am also pleased to say that we work in close conjunction with the commission. we are a solution-based committee. people bring us problems and we try to work quickly and effectively. at member state level, the importance of the committee representing parliament is not always recognised. one of my recommendations would certainly be for greater attendance by member state representatives when we are dealing with issues that are germane to them. the report is a lengthy one and that is primarily due to the fact that we have enlargement; there has been greater engagement with this committee. the petitions process and the work of the committee have played an influential role in bringing pressure to bear on member states to ensure that eu laws are satisfactorily transposed and implemented. importantly, it also highlights the plight of eu citizens whose rights are diminished. the introduction of the e-petitions system has proved a useful tool for members, assistants and group staff and allows us all to keep an eye on developments on ongoing petitions. i mention some key points in my report. without going into too much detail i should like to highlight just two areas where the committee has managed to be influential, although not totally so. the cases in point are the so-called ‘valencian land grab law’ (lrau), ms fourtou’s report, which we adopted in december 2005; and one of my reports on the confiscation of cars by the greek authorities, which we adopted earlier this year. those examples are good illustrations to show the best and the worst of the system. yes, we have brought about resolution in some of the cases with the greek confiscation of the cars, but i have to say that, sadly, the situation in valencia is still grave, and requires further monitoring. i make several recommendations in my report, including increasing the membership of the committee to approximately the same membership as other committees; and speeding up our processes in the way in which we work with the commission to ensure close cooperation and effective working methods. i want to pay particular tribute to the commission staff, who often come to the committee, wait for a long time and then sincerely and effectively deal with the issues before them. we cannot thank them enough. the work of the commission staff is not always fully recognised. i feel it is important that we have clear rules, however, on the admissibility of petitions, especially for the future, in order to ensure that all citizens can have recourse to the petitions process but that the system is not abused. i have tabled only one plenary amendment to the report, on behalf of the socialist group, which underlines that in principle the petitions process is aimed at european citizens and reinforces the view that in principle the petitions process should be a service that is targeted at eu citizens who do not have other means of recourse to action by the european parliament. meps, as citizens, can avail themselves of that right, but nonetheless they have other parliamentary processes at their disposal. i hope that other groups can support the aim of this amendment. i should also like to pay tribute to the petitions committee secretariat and their tireless support for the members’ work and our work. as with other committee secretariats which i have worked with, the petitions committee secretariat provides high-quality assistance to us all. to put it simply, we would not be able to do the work without them. so i should like to finish by once again paying tribute to all members of the secretariat. i look forward to hearing the comments of the house. i should also like to thank the chairman of my committee, mr libicki, for all his work and the support that he gives me and others. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate mr cashman on his extensive and tough report. i would also like to welcome the supportive and reinforcing manner in which he addresses some of the items we have already addressed in the report on the monitoring of community law. it is quite clear that petitions reveal a lot of feedback from our citizens, and there are two themes i would like to pick out from the report. one is better quality and more citizen-inspired legislation, and the second is better redress mechanisms. there is a common thread running through both of these, and that is the need for more information at national level: information about eu law and policy, information about how to enforce it, about how to access justice. too often on the committee we see citizens who have been ping-ponged back and forth between various institutions and ombudsman’s courts, not knowing which way to turn. we have to bring an end to this. then the other item: clearer citizen-inspired legislation. a few weeks ago we in this parliament supported an idea of having citizens’ summaries at the beginning of each piece of european legislation. last week some of us were in helsinki for meetings with the finnish justice ministry. finland already uses citizens’ summaries or executive summaries. their guide on this says that every bill should outline the objective of the proposed legislation. its main contents should be drafted in plain language, avoiding legal terms, avoiding professional jargon, avoiding references to other legislation, and no more than one page in length. if our legislation were properly addressed to our citizens in this way, in plain language, well, we might have rather fewer petitions!
rapporteur. – mr president, mr iturgaiz angulo has repeated tonight in this house the claim made by a former minister of the valencian government – namely that i am waging a campaign with others against the valencian government without any evidence. i must say at once and with all due seriousness that i take these allegations, which are aimed at undermining my integrity and reputation, very seriously indeed. i will defend my reputation and my integrity to the hilt. i say to those who are making these allegations that if they believe i am waging a campaign without any evidence, can they please put their case and put it swiftly.
mr president, there are clear links between trafficking and large sporting events, and it is sad that such exciting and positive events are linked to such an evil trade. this time the sporting event is being held here in the european union. we must act, and we must do more than we are doing at the moment. we need further answers from the commission about the measures actually being taken and about what lessons can be learned for the future. i fear that not enough is being done at this world cup to stop this abhorrent trade, although i know the german authorities are trying their best, and i appreciate that. it is almost certain that, as i speak, many victims of trafficking are working as slaves, far from the view of the television cameras. they are victims, as you quite rightly said, commissioner, and must be treated as such, not as criminals. commissioner, i hope the hotlines you mentioned have been set up and are working. i too would have liked to see a single free-phone hotline, similar to the child hotline. i hope there are enough safe havens for victims to go to, and would like you to indicate whether you feel enough have been set up in germany. i hope also that the victims will not be returned to their country of origin only to be retrafficked, because we know that this has happened in the past. i am very pleased that, as you mentioned, there has been cooperation with europol. however, we need to know more about what measures the commission is taking, along with europol, to combat trafficking in relation to the world cup. we also need to know what the full extent of trafficking is at this world cup. after the event is over we need a full report and i would like to hear from you what sort of report that will be. we must learn for the future. we are not talking here about prostitutes who have decided, for whatever reasons, that they want to be prostitutes – we are talking about the slave trade, and we must not confuse the two. it is right that we should speak about these issues, but we must make sure that footballers, fans and organisations – and i had sincerely hoped that fifa would join with us – try and stamp out this slave trade, because that is what it is and we are not talking about prostitution in general. we must make sure that the world cup is remembered for the right reasons, and not for fostering a slave trade.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the commissioner and our excellent rapporteur have both referred to the need for this measure: the crying shame that the commission has just referred to; the precious resource that my colleague mrs klaß referred to – a resource that once polluted can take decades to recover. therefore we are bringing a measure which is aimed to prevent that and to protect the groundwater which, as mrs klaß says, in parts of some countries provides a high proportion of drinking water. she is right, in the work she has done, not only to distinguish between the different geological backgrounds in different parts of europe so as to show that there is not one single solution to these problems, but also to highlight areas where there are comparable problems and ways we can find to cope with them. there are two keys. one is to ensure that we have consistency with other directives, in particular the water framework directive. the nitrates directive has also been mentioned, and there are others – the daughter directives. the second is to clarify even now – and i fear it will have to come at conciliation – some of the issues: for example, in amendment 22, the use of the words ‘aim to’. to achieve the absolute may be impossible, but ‘aiming to’ means nothing, and is ambiguous as it could refer either to a sort of lip service or to a genuine attempt. i am sure we need a stronger term, short of the impossible; and the current text in the groundwater directive which talks of ‘taking all the appropriate measures deemed necessary to prevent’, may be the answer. but we also need to ensure that the french and the english texts are the same. at the moment the english text says ‘stop’ and the french text says ‘try to prevent’. these are the sort of issues that we shall need to look at as we take this forward. however, in the meantime, i congratulate our rapporteur and welcome the move by the commission to improve this particular precious asset.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, one of the commissioner’s officials spoke to the environment committee recently. in response to one of my colleagues, he said that target values are no use at all. we have to have limit values; otherwise the member states do nothing. aspirations are just a figment of brussels’ imagination. nothing comes of them once people get back to their national capitals. i think that is the impression many members have; the impression that words are not being acted upon. it is increasingly difficult to secure proper compliance with environmental legislation from member states. i hope that is something the commission will be raising on a regular and frequent basis in the environment council – naming and shaming. looking at the record, and i know the commission has that in mind all the time. i remember that when we discussed the water framework directive, this parliament’s amendments helped give that piece of legislation real teeth. we imposed legal requirements upon member states. as a result, major impetus was given to trying to resolve some of the problems in certain states. others, judging by some of the recent figures i have seen, are trying their best to circumvent the requirements imposed on them. when we look at this particular legislation, amendment 22 is the motivation behind many of our concerns. we were seeking to delete the words ‘aim to’ because we want to close the loophole. we no longer trust ministers to deliver what they say when they come to brussels. we want legally binding requirements imposed on them, however difficult the enforcement machinery may be. it has been suggested that this is unnecessary: there are linguistic interpretations, or we misunderstand the difficulties. but i think it is very clear what members want: we want words to be followed by action. i spent some of last week trying to fend off the alleged concerns of the pesticides industry – manufacturers of plant protection products – that this legislation, as amended by parliament, would lead to the complete banning of pesticides. it struck me as rather odd. i always thought pesticides were intended to kill pests, not to get into groundwater, and, if applied in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions, they should not get into groundwater. so i do not see that we have a problem there. the important thing for all of us, and for the farming interests too, is to recognise that we all have an interest in preserving groundwater and the soil structure for the long term. bad farmers might have difficulty in meeting some of the requirements of this kind of legislation, but we are on the side of the good farmers and the environment, not the bad farmers, and that is as it should be.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would like to thank in particular mrs brepoels, the rapporteur, for all the excellent work she has done in listening to the various views and concerns, trying to find a way through on what is essentially a theme we all support, that is, greater access to information for the public and people who need to know, initially with the environmental theme in mind, and then going on, as the commissioner has indicated, to agriculture, transport and so on. there is a problem, as he has indicated, and i think that like the last measure this will have to be resolved in conciliation, but there are one or two concerns which still need to be recognised and addressed. certainly, as mrs brepoels knows well – in fact she is probably tired of hearing about it – there is concern, particularly on the part of the ordnance survey in the united kingdom, which has a very long tradition of map-making and geographical plotting. it is concerned because of the inability to charge for services. that is possible, but if it happens it might end up in a rather long queue for taxpayers’ support, as opposed to being able to recover at least some of its costs, as it has been doing over generations. that is a concern we have to recognise and try to meet. my second point, perhaps a more serious concern, is the concern that comes from defence sources. if you were to allow unrestricted access to discovery metadata, it would be possible to identify trends in areas that are being surveyed, for example, to provide information about naval patrol routes, allowing anyone who intends to commit terrorist attacks or any other maritime crime to track, intercept or avoid naval vessels. again it is an issue. it needs addressing and if we can get these things under control, then i am sure we have a measure here which we can all welcome and move forward with.
mr president, of course the sharing of information is a laudable goal, but there are specific issues. mr bowis has already referred to one of them as it relates to the united kingdom. i should like to focus on that for a moment. the ordnance survey in the united kingdom is highly developed and sophisticated. indeed, in my constituency in northern ireland, we have our own service, which also shares that world-leading status. it has been built up by investment in the most technologically-developed equipment available and by nurturing a skill base over many years. as a result, there is a valuable intellectual property right attached to the innovative spatial data that has been collected. it seems to me that the common position of the council on the inspire directive largely recognises and protects those realities. however, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of this house apparently wants to mount a smash-and-grab raid, so that what has been built up expensively over decades is made available to all, at no cost. i am not opposed to the sharing of information and data across europe, but it must come with a price attached when it has cost so much to acquire. information exchange of that nature must be on the basis of trade, not a handout. the fact that data has a monetary worth is the key to future progress and future development. therefore i very strongly feel that the better position is the common position and that the committee’s amendments are taking us backwards in a direction that will have the effect of damaging what has been built up and has been so good, for example, in the ordnance survey in the united kingdom. we do not want to threaten the financial sustainability of spatial data collection in the uk or elsewhere. that, i fear, would be the consequence of some of these amendments.
member of the commission. mr president, i should first like to thank the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr seeber, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for the excellent report they have produced on the first reading. floods are natural disasters and therefore cannot be completely prevented. however, much can be done to limit the often devastating effects of floods on human health and life, economic activity and property, and the environment in europe. in short, an ambitious and coherent approach to flood risk management is needed across the european union. this will ensure a feasible and generally acceptable level of protection for citizens and businesses. in addition, as the effects of climate change become more apparent, flooding across europe is expected to become more extreme and unpredictable. this is another reason for action to ensure that adequate and appropriate flood risk management measures are in place and are regularly reviewed to adapt to climate change. good thing we're not starting from scratch. following a series of extreme floods in the past, many member states and regions have already made significant progress in flood management. the commission's intention is certainly to ensure that the implementation of the directive builds on the efforts already made and not to overlap and repeat them. in this context, and after extensive consultation with stakeholders, the commission has put forward its proposal, which includes the following main points: preliminary flood risk assessment to identify areas at high risk (possible effects of climate change on future flooding should be taken into account) • flood risk maps, in which citizens and planning authorities can see the likely extent of floods and the damage they can cause to people, businesses and the environment; cross-border coordination for watersheds and coastal areas crossing more than one country. the proposal ensures that flood maps are drawn up by 2013 and flood risk management plans by 2015 for all river basins and coastal areas identified as being at high risk of flooding. finally, the proposal for a directive on flood risk management is closely linked to the water framework directive adopted by the european parliament and the council in 2000. this directive established a new water resources policy, introducing the principle of integrated river basin management. this approach not only integrates all policies concerning the quality and quantity of water resources into a single framework, but also ensures the cross-border coordination of watersheds and coastal areas that cross more than one member state or even third countries. the principle of integrated river basin management is also an important element for flood risk management policies. the latter must be managed by the regional and central governments in such a way as to limit the risk of flooding both at the source and the mouth of the river. for this reason, as i have said, the principle of integrated river basin management links this directive to the water framework directive. it should also be noted that flooding can indirectly cause damage and pollution with dangerous substances with devastating effects on ecosystems and drinking water. the construction of large flood control projects may also prove detrimental to water resources, water reserves and sensitive ecosystems. the link with the water framework directive is therefore of great importance. finally, the proposal for a directive places great emphasis on subsidiarity and flexibility so that member states are able to seek the most appropriate solution in each region.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional development. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr seeber for his very effective work on this important report. what we have now is a proposed directive, which is strong enough to offer people protection without duplicating the work done by other authorities, particularly at the regional and the local levels and which is also good for the environment. i was particularly interested in this proposal because some years ago a region in wales suffered very serious flooding, and that highlighted the inadequate measures then in place to prevent or to cope with such a natural disaster. much of the suffering and disruption created could have been avoided. with the increasing effects of climate change on our environment, it is essential for us to have a coordinated and well thought-out approach to flooding, which is increasing in both frequency and intensity in the eu. of course, we do not want to prevent all flooding. floods are a natural phenomenon and they are important for maintaining the ecological functioning of an ecosystem. but we need sustainable flood risk management and relevant policies and financial mechanisms to deliver that. with flood levels increasing, dykes, dams and other infrastructure measures are failing to provide protection, so these need to be assessed in a comprehensive way. cost recovery measures also need to be introduced, making economics work for the environment. we have to promote measures that work with nature in managing floods, not against it, and must understand, for example, that areas currently with no flood risk may be of huge flood mitigation value in the future, and include them in the maps and plans. finally, in order for this directive to be effective and enforceable and to reduce bureaucracy, it should fully respect the water framework directive, and i would ask colleagues to support the amendments i have put forward for my group, which would ensure the compatibility of the two.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional development. – mr president, research and the upscaling of europe’s economy is europe’s new narrative. europe used to be about coal and steel, then it was about agriculture and fisheries. for the future, europe is going to be about research and development, and where europe adds value in coordinating the two. from a development perspective i would say that it should be regional development. there is a clear complementarity between the research and regional development agendas. the key partners in actually delivering the grand research agenda that we set at european level are the cities and the regions and the businesses within those cities and regions. that complementarity is vital for the coordination of the policies, in order to make sure that one part of the commission is not setting one set of agendas while another part of the commission is setting a different set, and that the complementarity is not necessarily what it could be. i think it is also worth stating that i and others want to see a lot more synergy in fp7 – and, indeed, fp8 – between structural funds and research funding. while the budget for fp7 is far from what we wanted, it is even more important that we maximise the benefit between the synergies of the two funding streams. that debate will continue into fp8, though for now i would add my own congratulations to our rapporteur for his herculean efforts. we support this compromise.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i should like to comment on mr buzek’s proposals on nuclear research. since the beginning of the industrial revolution britain was able to rely predominantly on its own indigenous energy resources: coal and then natural gas. but britain, like many european countries, now faces an impending energy crisis. coal still meets 35% of our energy needs but it is environmentally unfriendly. north sea gas, which met 37.5% of our needs, is rapidly running out and since 2003 we have been forced to import gas. we have already passed from a surplus to a shortage and we are heading for an ever-widening shortfall. nuclear energy provides about 22.5% of our needs but that nuclear capability is now rapidly coming to the end of its life cycle and our nuclear power stations will have to be decommissioned, so that by 2014 we will have lost about 70% of our capacity. britain faces losing a very large proportion of its energy supplies relatively quickly. unless other provisions can be made, very soon we will be forced to rely on foreign, unreliable and not necessarily friendly suppliers, for example, the russian federation. energy conservation measures are necessary and desirable, but cannot make the necessary impact. with the best will in the world, renewable sources of energy, such as wind and waves, simply will not supply the amounts of energy required for major industrialised societies. wind turbines will only work when the wind blows, which is 30% of the time, and require conventional power stations to back them up when the wind does not blow. they are worse than useless. wave power only works in specific geographic locations. other alternative methods are equally ineffective. france has already tackled the problem and installed the latest range of modern nuclear reactors, to the extent that they now supply about 70% to 80% of its electricity needs. therefore i found much to agree with in mr buzek’s report. he is quite right to think in terms of a 50-year plan for sustainable and secure nuclear energy supplies that are safe and environmentally friendly. the first stage of that plan is to build sufficient new-generation nuclear power stations for the next 30 to 50 years. stage two of the plan must, as he rightly says, consist of the development of nuclear fusion to deliver viable fusion plants within two generations. where i have to part company with him is on the notion that this project should be done under the auspices of the european union. britain could build ten new nuclear power stations for the equivalent of less than two years’ contributions to the european budget. that would be money much better spent. the development of nuclear fusion is precisely the kind of international cooperative project that could be undertaken by independent sovereign governments, without any need for the institutions of the european union intended to promote political integration by economic means, as indeed euratom has done since its creation.
mr president, i too would like to pay tribute to our rapporteur, mr buzek, who has been very fair and inclusive in the way he has steered this difficult proposal through parliament. i accept that the ethical issues are a very difficult area: embryonic stem cell research, somatic nuclear cell transfer technology and genetic therapies for hereditary diseases. i respect the differing views and deeply-held beliefs concerning these issues. it is clearly an issue of personal conscience and belief, for which the only acceptable procedure is a free vote is this parliament, which represents all europe citizens. i should like to explain why a christian can accept eu funding of this research. jesus christ related the parable of the good samaritan. it was the despised samaritan who did not pass by on the other side as others had. he stopped to aid a fellow man who was in difficulty. god endowed humans with the intelligence and skills to improve our human lot, and over the centuries, often in the face of resistance from church hierarchies and doctrines, mankind has challenged the frontiers of science and thereby improved our wellbeing. the research in this area, which is funded by the european union, is in that tradition. however, it is restricted by rules, recognises human dignity, and is closely monitored and regulated. in my view, and that of many christians, including the christian church to which i belong, it is wholly appropriate that we continue to fund this research, just as we did under the sixth framework programme for research.
mr president, most colleagues have this on their voting lists already. there is one slight change: ‘whereas on 10 june 2006 the suicides of three detainees at guantánamo bay have raised further international concern about the detention facilities’ – rather than ‘of the detention facilities’.
rapporteur. – mr president, following discussions with other groups, it is a compromise amendment. i will read it in its entirety as it is short: ... ‘reinforces the view that, in principle, the petitions process should be a right which is targeted at european citizens who do not have other means of recourse to action by the european parliament; meps can avail themselves of this right through the rules of parliament and remind them that they have other parliamentary processes at their disposal.’
mr president, labour meps support the regulation on groundwater, but we felt that some of the amendments in committee were overly prescriptive and also moved the groundwater directive away from provisions of the water framework directive. i hope that in conciliation we can find some commonsense solution to this, so that we allow the action to be focused on areas where the biggest problems are, rather than spending time, money and energy on managing groundwater where that is not in fact going to be a problem for public health.
in writing. this report seeks to set clear scientifically-based guidelines for assessing good quality groundwater and prevent further pollution. a natural resource occurring in rock aquifers, groundwater is used by agriculture and industry as well as for drinking water, yet it is particularly vulnerable to the problems of drought and pollution. i therefore welcome this report in so far as it endorses risk-based approaches to the problem of deterioration. this means leaving member states a certain amount of flexibility to prioritise worst cases of degradation in order to make their resources are well-matched to problems arising. given the varying ecological circumstances across the eu, it also means supporting local solutions with guidance on common approaches following the vote i and my eplp colleagues remain unhappy about a number of technical issues relating to the directive, and understand the uk government will now pursue these issues in the final negotiations between the european parliament and the european council.
in writing. i shall be voting against amendments 13, 14, 18, 19, 23 and 24 to ensure the sustainable financing of high-quality spatial data in the united kingdom. the amendments are incompatible with longstanding united kingdom policy on information trading. by undermining the sustainable financing of high-quality spatial data they undermine the very purpose of the inspire infrastructure.
mr president, labour meps abstained on the final vote on the floods directive. it is a pity that the directive does not focus on the rivers in europe where the main problem lies: cross-border rivers. i am afraid that the commission will now be flooded with maps of domestic rivers all over europe. the main area in which the eu can make a difference is trans-border rivers, where joint management by member states is extremely important. we wanted to have an exemption for all domestic river basins. that would have made more sense. i hope, therefore, that when the commission comes back to look at the details it will have a very light-touch regime for those countries that do not have trans-border rivers.
in writing. i abstained on these votes, not because i do not deplore the situation in guantanamo, which i do, but because, in keeping with my position on the european union and its institutions, i do not acknowledge its legitimacy to comment on these matters.
in writing. i will be voting for this resolution. it is a balanced criticism of what the bush administration is doing in holding terrorist suspects illegally in prison in a part of cuba some would argue it occupies illegally. the terrible events of 09/11 changed the world and we have enormous sympathy with the families of the victims and the survivors. it was and is only right and proper that we combine in the fight against terrorism around the world, whether in new york, or madrid, london or jakarta. yet our combined struggle is undermined with the existence of guantanamo bay, the revelations regarding 'extraordinary rendition' that our committee of inquiry is investigating, and the failure to properly investigate allegations of atrocities in iraq. two wrongs do not make a right. our struggle can only win the moral high ground if it clearly is within the limits of national and international law.
in writing. the british conservative delegation has abstained on the motion on the situation of prisoners in guantánamo because it suggests in paragraphs 2 and 3 that torture is commonplace in this facility, which our american allies totally reject. furthermore paragraph 8 explicitly asserts that the detainees are protected by the geneva convention, which in the case of illegal combatants not wearing uniforms, concealing their weapons and not subject to a military hierarchy, is disputed internationally by legal experts. we do support the eventual closure of guantánamo, which has become a serious international issue for the united states, but this can only occur when alternative facilities are found to detain some of the most dangerous individuals threatening western free societies.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr adamou, the rapporteur, on an excellent report. it is well balanced and rational, and draws sensible conclusions on how to deal with an event which we all very much hope will not happen. we have managed to avoid the bird flu pandemic so far. however, it is absolutely right to be prepared and to be prepared to work together and to ensure that we have the mechanisms in place to deal with a pandemic, should it occur. the fact that we have gone into this in a spirit of cooperation, that the commission has talked about cooperation, and that we have encouraged discussion and debate in the member states to ensure that all the basic things are in place – such as having enough vaccine should the worst happen – is a very good example of the european union, this parliament, the commission and the member states working together for the benefit of all the citizens of europe. one of the most important things that we, as elected representatives, are here to do is to ensure the safety of our constituents, the people whom we represent. this report, and the thought that has gone into what we should do if the worst happens and we have a pandemic, is a really good example of that. i should like to finish by highlighting an example of what has been going on in my own region, in london. i should like to offer particular thanks to the school of hygiene and tropical medicine, which has carried out work in this area and helped with the development of antivirals and vaccines against this and other infectious diseases. i think we should hold this up as an example of what we have done here and of what institutions are doing in the member states, and of how we can handle pandemics such as this one, which we hope will not actually take place.
mr president, i want to begin by warmly welcoming mr adamou's report, which we wholeheartedly support. i welcome what the commissioner has said about the steps being taken as, indeed, i welcome the report that has been referred to by mr koker of the london school of hygiene and tropical medicine. i want to highlight three aspects. the first is vaccine research. what is clear is that if we rely on the egg-based vaccine, even once we know the strain of the flu, it will take six to eight months for that to come on stream. and if the flu pandemic has come as a result of bird flu or hen flu, we are likely to have slaughtered all the hens, which means there will be no eggs for vaccines. so, there is an urgent need to research alternatives and in particular the dna vaccine and i look forward to hearing what is happening on that. secondly, on preparedness: this excellent report covers a wide range of matters which need to be put into operation. there is one missing, i think, which concerns the devices to deliver the vaccines. i hope that will be included in the work being done in the commission. thirdly, on the stockpile: mr staes asked for the names of the countries which are blocking the stockpile. i will give them to him: it is the netherlands, it is sweden and it is slovakia. in addition, we had britain, germany and portugal giving conditional support, depending on who was going to pay for it. i think that is based on a misunderstanding of what the stockpile is supposed to be. it is not meant to replace the work of the member states, it is not meant to save them from having to build their own stockpiles; it is an insurance policy against the possibility that we will have an urgent situation within or perhaps outside our borders – for instance, in moldova or belarus, in which case it would be in all our interests to smother that outbreak as quickly as possible, before it spreads to the european union. for that reason, i beg the commissioner to go back to the council, explain what it is all about, knock heads together and make sure that those countries that have been blocking it to date remove that block so that we have this stockpile ready to protect ourselves.
(the speaker spoke irish)(the president pointed out that since irish was not yet an official language of the eu there had been no interpretation) early detection and the early warning and response system are vital components of the eu strategy to deal with any possible flu pandemic. i am glad to hear the commissioner say that the european centre for disease control will shortly address this issue. i congratulate mr adamou on this excellent report. i join my colleagues in stressing the importance of adequate financial and technical support to developing countries, particularly the least developed, and in urging the commission to work for a more coherent international framework following the beijing pledging conference.
mr president, russia remains, geographically of course, the largest country in the world and enjoys a strategic partnership with the eu through the ‘four common spaces’. russia, for all its faults, remains a democracy, albeit an increasingly authoritarian one. it still enjoys vigorous debate in its many media outlets, even if the control by the kremlin through self-censorship is becoming more apparent in recent years. the judiciary, like in many former soviet countries, still lacks the degree of independence seen in the eu and tends to bend to political pressure. but it is not always so. i remain an enormous admirer of the contribution to european culture made by russia, and believe strongly that we must not destabilise this massive eurasian country, whose confidence is now on the rise again with the recent massive inflow of petrodollars. undoubtedly, russia has seen violations of human rights by its military in the north caucasus. but we must also recognise the threat posed by chechen militant islamic groups eager to capture muslim population in russia, which now accounts for around 17% of the population and is rising rapidly. al-qa’ida is eager to put down roots in the region. clearly also gazprom the ‘gas weapon’ – used as an extended arm of russian foreign policy – always seems to upset my friend, and understandably so, particularly in ukraine, moldova and the caucasus. russia must be seen as a reliable energy trading partner and not as a trade bully towards its neighbours and those countries nearby, as we saw recently over the ban against georgia and moldova in the importation of their wines and mineral waters, or, even more bizarrely, on the ‘bilateral issue’ with polish farm products, which i always thought was the commission’s prerogative, covered by the monopoly on external trade. i would also call on russia now to follow ukraine’s lead in allowing visa-free travel to all eu citizens in order to boost tourism and facilitate a better public knowledge of this giant eastern neighbour of ours. lastly, i call on russia to support the eu and the us in preventing nuclear proliferation by iran.
thank you very much, commissioner, for that comprehensive reply. if should just add that – as you are probably aware – if you pay by credit card for something in a shop or for a room in a hotel, that information cannot be used retrospectively, with more charges being added on. however, this does seem to happen in the car hire industry. there are many companies who also charge people for damage that has not occurred or is very minor. this is an industry that affects europeans who are travelling around europe, so i very much welcome your commitment to look again at the consumer directives, distance selling, unfair aggressive practices, and hope very much that my colleagues and i can work with you, introduce amendments and address the current car hire situation
would the commissioner agree with me that the car hire sector is one that should be a prime beneficiary of the services directive, and that the provisions of that directive, which we approved to encourage sectors to develop good codes of practice and quality standards, would be an ideal application in this case? perhaps he could take up the suggestion by my colleague, robert evans, with which i associate myself, to call the car hire companies together, present them with some of these disserving consumer reports and suggest that they might set up a europe-wide set of codes of practice, standards and quality marks that really would benefit the consumer very quickly?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gargani, mr lehne, who has replaced him this evening, and mr cavada for the joint work that the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on legal affairs have done on this important dossier. i believe that one of the strengths of this judgment, which recognises the added value of the community, is the fundamental role which the european parliament will be able to play in important matters such as criminal liability in the context of the codecision procedure. as you know, the commission adopted a communication on this subject last november. we believe that the scope of this judgment goes beyond the question of environmental protection alone. i think the problem is much broader and i generally agree with the content of the report drawn up by mr gargani. i must say that the commission's perspective is a little more ambitious in certain areas and in certain respects. for example, the report explicitly states that the legislator should limit the use of criminal sanctions only to cases where the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens or the protection of financial interests is at stake. these are certainly extremely important interests which must be protected. we believe, however, that we can go a little further, although the court's judgment sets limits on the use of criminal sanctions at european level, which i believe are necessary. for example, as mr lehne has just said, we must consider a european criminal sanction when it is really indispensable to ensure the effectiveness of community law, in accordance with the principle of the necessity of the criminal sanction and the principle of proportionality. at the same time, it seems to me that an absolute limitation of the subject matter is dangerous and restricts what the court of justice has said. we have tabled a proposal for a directive which provides for criminal sanctions in the fight against counterfeiting. you know how dangerous counterfeiting is for european industry and for the health of consumers, and also because of the exploitation of child labour to produce counterfeit goods. in view of this, how can it be said that there is no need for a european-wide sanction in this area? this is just one example, and for that very reason i support the idea that mr roure and mr cavada have expressed in their respective amendments about extending the approach adopted by the rapporteur in a somewhat more ambitious way. in conclusion, i should like to express my deep appreciation for the fact that the report reaffirms the principle of the so-called 'passerelle clause', that is to say the possibility of moving from the principle of unanimity in the third pillar to a procedure of codecision and qualified majority voting, or a community procedure in the first pillar, as regards the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and cooperation in police and security matters. this is a wish which the commission has already expressed and i think it is good that it is also being reiterated in mr gargani's report.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this issue shows up the most basic weakness in the whole eu structure. all countries agree to be bound by the same body of eu law, which they then undertake to enforce upon themselves. it must have been obvious from the start that some countries would apply eu law more vigorously than others. so what we are now seeing is the beginning of attempts to harmonise criminal justice, notwithstanding mr gargani’s request for checks and limits. the ecj will have a wonderful time deciding whether national sentencing meets its criteria of being proportional and dissuasive. mr gargani acknowledges that it will be hard to achieve uniform enforcement. indeed, do we really expect courts to behave in the same way in all 25 eu countries, including our new eastern european member states and those who are yet to join? i fear that politicians will agree to progressively harmonise enforcement, but the peoples of our different countries will not.
mr president, although i am a lawyer i am not here to accuse commissioner frattini of anything at all this evening, he will be pleased to hear, other than to say that i think this is such an important ruling that the consequences of it seem to me to be far from clear at this time. i believe there is a danger here of over-applying the principle of community competence into national domestic criminal law and indeed, following as it does from the remarks of chancellor schüssel at the start of the austrian presidency calling for the ecj to hand powers back to member states, it does not seem to me to sit too easily in that context. i welcome, however, the generally cautious approach and the limited interpretation of the ruling which is to apply to a very few isolated cases set out in both the gargani report and the commissioner’s response. i think that the exercise of any form of legal precedent here must be controlled very strongly and effectively. i think that competence in criminal law is national, not european, in general terms, and i think the presumption must remain in that way. whatever the general arguments, i disagree with the commissioner. there is absolutely no justification to call for the activation of the passerelle clause in article 42 of the treaty on the basis of this ruling itself. indeed, if we were to do that it would set quite a dangerous and unwelcome precedent. at the end of the day, my view is that whilst this is an unusual ruling, it has to be looked at on an individual basis and in a limited application. any attempt by the commission or the court to try to use this in a more extensive way would be unacceptable and would call into question the operations of the ecj in this field.
on behalf of the verts/ale group . – mr president, like others before me, i would like to thank mrs roure very much on behalf of my group for the work that she has done on this report and the improvements we think have been brought to the initial proposal. i also welcome the commissioner’s comments tonight in terms of his strong commitment to a rapid completion of the timetable for this framework decision. parliament, like the commission, also feels that as we move further down the road of data collection and data exchange, it is absolutely essential that we have safeguards in place. if more and more data is to be readily available on that principle – online and cross-border – we need those clear rules: not least for the agencies involved – they need to be clear about what it is they have and how it can be used – but equally, because people need to have confidence that this data will be used appropriately. they want to feel that it will be protected and not easily available to private parties. so we agree on the need for strict regulation and penal sanctions in that area. we are also clear – not least because of the recent issues about transfer of passenger data – that when we are handing data to third countries, when they are involved, we need clear safeguards as to where that data may end up and under what circumstances. we also welcome the fact that their data, too, will be assessed against fundamental rights. i think it is a tragedy that we have to think in those terms these days, but we do. maybe what we are looking at here is a new definition of a ‘safe’ third country, at least in terms of its information. people also want to have confidence that data will be used appropriately and for the purpose for which it was collected, although we think it is totally appropriate that different categories of data, whether on suspects, convicted people, witnesses, victims, etc., are differently treated. again, it gives clarity and facilitates communication. we also welcome the amendment stipulating that data relating to people not under suspicion should be used solely for the purpose collected. we hope that member states would operate to that standard domestically, but i know of at least one where dna data has been retained when it should not have been. so the additional safeguards concerning dna and biometrics put into article 6 are also very welcome to us. we need data we can trust – maybe that is something we cannot guarantee in a framework directive; but we also need to have confidence that the data collected is used appropriately and that rights are safeguarded while we are able to trace criminal activity more effectively.
mr president, i also wish to thank the rapporteur, mrs roure. however i also regret very strongly the absence of the council tonight, because i am afraid too many of us are preaching to the converted: it is the council that we have to convert. i want to add my voice to those who have emphasised how essential this measure is. that is why parliament has been asking for it for many years. now, however, in the era of all the eu databases such as the visa information system, the schengen information system, eurodac and the whole question of access by law enforcement – the policy of interoperability – and, of course, the question of the transfer of data to third countries, including the air passenger data agreement, it is more vital than ever. it is a great mistake to think that data protection somehow obstructs police and security work: it actually enhances the prospect of cooperation by increasing trust and confidence, including public confidence. so i believe parliament will do everything it can to achieve this measure. as the rapporteur on the visa information system, i see a triple package: the first-pillar regulation; the measure on access to the vis for police and intelligence services; and this data protection framework decision. we have codecision on the first-pillar measure, so the message i want to send very strongly to the council is that it needs to take account of that. i want the vis to be on the statute book as soon as possible; but we need to have the other elements in place as well.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the very cooperative arrangements he established, which enabled our committee to arrive at its conclusions. commissioner, i have a little story for you. imagine two prisoners, both of whom are citizens of the same member state and who are both in prison in another member state. they have committed the same crime. they have received identical sentences. after several years, both are eligible for transfer back to their home member state. one has behaved beautifully, has been a model prisoner, has repented, has learned and has changed, while the other has behaved very badly, is unreformed and needs more help. however, and this is the problem i want to draw your attention to, the information on the two prisoners cannot be transferred back across the borders with the prisoners, because present-day data privacy laws prevent the transfer of data across frontiers. this means that the receiving member state has no idea as to which of the prisoners is a continuing threat, and which is safe to release back into society. commissioner, could you please take action to ensure that the data can travel with the prisoners when we get to that stage?
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs ždanoková, for a very well-written report. it gives us the opportunity to discuss a subject that is very close to my heart, which is the fight against discrimination, the promotion of equal opportunities and diversity. the right of individuals to equality before the law and protection against discrimination is a fundamental right that is essential for the proper functioning of any democratic society, and everyone also recognises that this right allows us to enhance the economic and social cohesion of our countries and thus our prosperity. the community's objective is to ensure uniform application of the law in this area, on the one hand, and to promote effective policies to combat discrimination and to promote equality where the application of the law is inadequate, on the other. as you have already pointed out, there are still a number of structural obstacles to the realisation of a fairer society. so the goal of our action is to change attitudes and behavior. i am pleased that your report largely supports the approach taken by the commission. i noticed that you pointed out areas where improvement is needed and that you made some interesting suggestions on how to achieve that improvement. your report first of all emphasises the importance of data collection. some progress is therefore necessary to improve our understanding of discrimination, to be able to design effective measures and, in particular, to monitor their implementation. the commission is pursuing this while ensuring compliance with data protection legislation. as stated in its framework strategy, the commission will publish a handbook on the degree of discrimination at the end of 2006. it also intends to develop in the near future a conceptual framework for measuring progress in combating discrimination and assessing the statistics available at community and national level. in general, the community legal basis does not preclude the collection of the relevant data. your report also stresses the need to strengthen positive action to combat discrimination. the commission appreciates your comments and has already asked the group of legal experts it has set up to report on the positive measures currently applied in the member states. the importance of multiple discrimination was also duly highlighted. this topic deserves more attention. because we often underestimate the number of people who are exposed to this phenomenon. i have therefore commissioned a study to improve understanding of the causes and consequences of multiple discrimination. i promise a great contribution to our anti-discrimination policy from the forthcoming european year of equal opportunities. i hope that by the end of 2007 more european citizens will understand the social and economic benefits that diversity can bring us and will be more aware of the rights that belong to them. finally, your report calls for the introduction of a new legal instrument covering all grounds of discrimination, as already mentioned in the framework strategy adopted last june. the commission has launched an in-depth investigation into the suitability and feasibility of new measures to complement the existing legal framework. pending the results of this inquiry, the commission will focus all its energies on monitoring the implementation of the existing directives by the member states in the interests of the greatest possible fairness. the commission will of course take all the necessary legal steps in this respect if the situation so requires. ladies and gentlemen, i look forward to your discussion.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, mrs ždanoka has produced a report that has one very important underlying idea, which is that effective action to combat discrimination is not easy, but that it is vital for governments, public authorities and multinational companies to take effective action to combat such discrimination. it is not an easy option, as we heard from the last speaker, as it causes controversy, but it is absolutely critical. as the commissioner said, in order for the year of equal opportunities 2007 to mean something – i know he and his staff are working hard on it – we need to make proper advances. mrs ždanoka’s report does that. it is another step forward. she talks about active intervention and positive action. positive action is one of the most misunderstood concepts. what positive action means is not necessarily affirmative action giving unfair advantages, but action to remove the barriers which cause discrimination. it is sad to see that ethnic monitoring still meets with such controversy and resistance in the european union. it is now commonplace in the united kingdom, and in multinational companies with operations in the united states and across europe, to ethnically monitor their staff or to monitor them on the basis of disability or age. why? because this enables one to understand which people are being promoted and retained in employment and whether there is indirect discrimination. the whole concept of indirect discrimination is being misunderstood and it is important for this concept to be advanced in reports like that by mrs ždanoka, because it works. if one looks at the institutions present here today – the commission, parliament and council – where there is no ethnic monitoring, one can see what is happening. there are very few people who are non-white employed in those institutions, including in parliament. my presence makes the percentage slightly higher today, but that is because the chamber is empty. article 13 contains an important concept. i know the commissioner’s heart is in progressing article 13, but what mrs ždanoka’s report states, very importantly, is that we need comprehensive legislation and we need to implement the racial equality directive and employment directive and make them mean something, rather than leave them unimplemented. it is the same with the framework decision on racist offences, for which the council has a responsibility. finally, in answer to the last speaker and regarding the concerns over paragraph 11, i should say that the effective participation of minorities in public and political life is a precondition for good integration. it is important. just two categories have been mentioned, but there are many other categories in many other countries where people can enjoy effective participation. we cannot ignore this issue. we must pay attention to it and we must take it forward. overall, this report advances what i think should be a comprehensive year of equal opportunities. we back the commissioner in the strong action that i hope he will take in 2007. i want to thank mrs ždanoka for an excellent report, to which the socialist group will give its full support.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report, coming, i would remind other members, from the committee and not simply from one individual. so i think the questions that were asked should be addressed to the committee as a whole. it was their choice as to which groups they particularly wanted to focus on, and they could have added many other amendments had they chosen to. we have legislation which already covers the vast majority of groups within the european union. as others have said so eloquently this evening, we do not use it. but this inclusive approach coming from the idea of non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all is, i think, extremely important. as people have said, it is about fundamental rights, the dignity of the individual, the respect with which each individual should be treated, and the right of individuals to participate in society. there seems to be a huge expectation that individuals should be participating in society. they need the tools to be able to do that, they need to be included, and that includes, in my group’s belief, the right to political participation as well. as others have said, it is socially important: social cohesion is one of the aims of the lisbon agenda. it is part of the european treaties, it is an important thing we are looking at, and that society needs all the talents and all the skills that we can bring. it is not often that i quote business, but business will tell you it makes good business sense in a diverse society and a globalising world to have a workforce which is diverse and which includes all the talents. as the report so eloquently says, we need to use and extend the good practice we have. the european union has invested heavily – not as heavily as some of us would like – for example in the equal programme, which brings many important lessons, not least from the asylum-seeker strand, in terms of preparation for work, language acquisition, a whole list of things we are talking about in terms of integration. we need to disseminate such results and exchange good practice. many ngos would be willing to share their experience, but they need the necessary network and support to do this. that could be one of the outcomes of the year of equal opportunities for next year, and maybe member states would like to invest even more in that. as we know, there are still far too many people suffering discrimination, and the full implementation of the article 13 directives becomes urgent, as does the setting-up of national anti-discrimination agencies that have proved their worth, not least, for example, the irish human rights agency. and we need data. it is not discriminatory, in order to collect data, to see whether our policies are changing situations, or whether we are simply working on the basis of our personal beliefs and prejudices, rather than sound statistics and information.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the success of this week’s summit rests, first and foremost, on delivering on one concept: democratisation. democracy, transparency and accountability must be the building blocks that shape the future of our union. without a clear commitment to all three, we will be left with the piecemeal solutions that have stalled reform efforts hitherto and reinforced public distrust in the union. europe will be built with the support of the citizens or not at all. addressing the democratic deficit means an end to the rubber-stamping of regulations behind closed doors. that is why my group congratulates the austrian presidency on building on commitments to make transparency the rule rather than the exception in eu policy-making and welcomes the willingness shown by the president of the commission to publish the names of those who sit on thousands of european union advisory committees. we still look forward to receiving them, mr barroso. we call on the council to announce that all discussions on lawmaking by codecision will be open to public view. we know – as the journalist meg greenfield wrote – that everybody is for democracy in principle, but it is only in practice that it gives rise to stiff objections. we note that, whatever they say in public, those two old secret plotters, britain and france – the two countries that nurtured democracy at national level and yet with her offspring now suffer amnesia – are still resisting openness in the council. it is up to the other countries to pull them kicking and screaming into the 21st century. in the short term, the council must put its faith in parliament and allow us greater legislative scrutiny. key initiatives, particularly in justice and home affairs, are often hampered by the absence of qualified majority voting and they end in stalemate. the time has come to apply the passerelle clause of article 42 and shift policies from the third to the first pillar, as proposed by the commission in its communication of 10 may, for our reputation – indeed our influence – rests on upholding values like democracy, liberty and respect for human rights. data protection in the third pillar is necessary to ensure protection of personal data. likewise, minimum procedural guarantees for the european arrest warrant – which i had the honour to pilot through this house – have been held up in the council since 2001. we want to see progress on all of those issues in order to make the european union more democratic and more effective. europe demands no less than an unequivocal drive to democratise decision-making. in the long term, only a constitutional treaty – as practical as it is ideological – can provide the institutional framework to democratise europe. but it is also time to recognise that the sixteenth and final member state likely to ratify the constitution in its current form is finland. we must recognise that france, the netherlands and the united kingdom will never ratify the 2004 text. denmark, ireland and sweden cannot ratify in current circumstances. the czech republic and poland choose not to ratify, and portugal will find it almost impossible, while committed to a referendum. so there are two options: renegotiation or oblivion. the sooner we take steps to make structural and substantive improvements to that text and address public concern, the better. president barroso, i welcome the vision and determination you are showing today. but i want to hear you say that louder and more often to the member states. you are right – they are all shareholders in the enterprise, but they have been gripped by a fad for short-termism, and anyway the markets are falling. we need to hammer home to the member states just how much they need the european union. my group thanks the austrian presidency for its good work thus far. we wish you success with other important items on your agenda: migration and other aspects of the hague programme; social and economic policy; the fundamental rights agency that we so badly need. make sure too that our foreign ministers have aid to palestine and cia renditions on their agenda. the fine wines that you served them at klosterneuburg were a good aperitif. they now need to sit down to the meat.
i am sorry. if your group gives you two minutes’ speaking time, then you stick to those two minutes. this is not the beginning of the end of your speech, it is the end of your speech. could people please stick to their speaking time.
mr president, this summit is scheduled to be, in part at least, a stocktaking exercise on the european constitution. yet the constitution, however you look at it, is to a large extent discredited. france and the netherlands should not be asked to vote on it again, and the dutch prime minister’s remarks should be taken very seriously. the longer this issue drags on, the more out of touch the european union appears to be with its citizens. we must move on from the endless debate on constitutional mechanics and get on with delivering results, because if we do not do that, citizens will conclude that their leaders have learned nothing. cherry-picking from the constitutional text, at this stage at least, would be unproductive. however, we certainly need a europe of results, as president barroso has rightly suggested. i personally also want to see a europe of real reform, because without reform there can be no results. progress has been made in economic reform and i congratulate president barroso and his colleagues for the work they have done there. however, we need to do much more and be more focused, as mrs wallström said, on achieving the concrete results. there is one other thing i briefly want to mention. the british foreign secretary said that she will try to overturn decisions on opening up council meetings to public scrutiny. this is absolutely astonishing and worrying and is a u-turn in british government policy. mr blair constantly preached the virtues of more openness during his presidency and we got a specific agreement that we would get openness in relation to council meetings and council processes. it is absolutely essential that the other governments give the british foreign secretary a short, sharp shock at her first summit and ignore her attempts to preserve secrecy in this unfair and unacceptable way. (applause)what has she got to hide? it is a shameful move on the part of the british government and i hope it will be soundly defeated! (applause)
mr president, we like to claim that the eu is a union of values based on democracy and the rule of law. yet when the danes voted against the treaty of maastricht in 1992, when the irish voted against the treaty of nice in 2000, they were told to go away and try again. so much for democracy! when the french and dutch voted against the constitution last year, we ignored their verdict. we are trying to revive a constitution which is dead in its own terms. we are implementing large parts of it with no legal basis. so much for the rule of law! in our pigheaded determination to press on with the european project in defiance of public opinion, we show our brazen contempt for the voters and for democratic values. the voters are starting to notice. amongst my east midlands constituents i sense a growing concern and, indeed, anger against the european project. so, press ahead with the eu constitution if you must, but be warned: you are fuelling public resentment, which will blow the european construction apart.
mr president, the purpose of this debate is to provide president borrell with something interesting to say when he speaks at the european council tomorrow. i fear that if parliament simply agrees the line proposed by the ppe-de and pse groups, we will be signing up to the same paralysis that exists within the council. president barroso is quite correct in saying that we must make progress on policies, and a ‘messina 50’ is probably a positive proposal, but what is the point of extending the period of reflection without providing a target and a purpose for the reflection? procrastination is not a credible policy. waiting for the successors of chirac, balkenende and blair to be thrusting federalists is a crazy fantasy. what we require is for the european council to establish a rendez-vous with a decision in the autumn of 2007, setting up a fresh conference to renegotiate part 3 of the constitution. these are not just legal problems, president-in-office, but a profound political crisis which we must address. i expect it is going to be possible to ring-fence the classical constitutional provisions that we find in the first and second parts of the constitution, around which consensus still exists. however, it is part 3 which contains the common policies that have so greatly disappointed public opinion in france and the netherlands and in several other places, notably as regards social and economic policy and the issue of borders. in fact, we have little choice. we either try to improve the product and market it effectively within the court of public opinion, or we consign the whole project to oblivion.
mr president, we are to have an extended period of reflection, are we? some people who are having periods of reflection are otherwise known to be ‘in retreat’ and some retreats are made in better order than others. some people, mr barroso, might have learned from reflection to date, saying that perhaps it was not the case, or that they might have done things differently, or even, perish the thought, that they were wrong. but all we have heard this morning is, ‘we were right. the people of france and holland are wrong. the constitution should be brought back’. you have employed new architects to build on exactly the same foundations of integration, over-regulation and empirical ambition. fortunately, only three people in ten in britain any longer believe any of this rubbish, so roll on our referendum, whatever the question! (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, parliament has been a consistent supporter of enlargement and, in particular, the timely accession of bulgaria and romania. i trust, therefore, that the european council this week will confirm its commitment to the accession date of 1 january 2007 for those countries. as the rapporteur for bulgaria over the past six years, i have seen at first hand the progress that has been made in transforming the economy, the political system and the administrative structures of that country. above all there has been a change in attitudes and expectations. people want a better life and now believe that it is achievable. it is most important that we do nothing to undermine that confidence and the duty to the people of bulgaria that we share with the bulgarian authorities. the resolution of parliament makes clear that some concrete results are needed in the coming months. those are primarily the responsibility of the bulgarian government, but the commission and the member states must do all they can to help. i know that the united kingdom and some other countries have already provided assistance in the fight against organised crime. i would ask for a reinforcement of that effort during the next four months. turning to other matters, the european union is very good at giving lessons to others, but often fails to learn lessons itself. we have heard much about the ‘period of reflection’ following the failure of the constitution, but we seem incapable of drawing the right conclusions. the answer that we hear this morning is ‘more europe’. i do not know where that is coming from. it is not what i hear from the people of east anglia that i represent. they want less interference from brussels and they want the european union to put its house in order and to carry out a more limited range of tasks with greater efficiency. people want more control over their own lives. they want accountable national and local government; they want security and prosperity and they want a europe that differs from the outmoded project that unfortunately is still on the table.
mr president, those who claim – on one side of the house, notably – that the french and dutch have said ‘no’ and that this whole debate must therefore come to an end and we should never again consider changing the treaties are guilty of being far too simplistic and of only wanting to hear one answer. when they say, as one of them did, ‘which part of the word ‘no’ do you not understand owing to the french and dutch results?’, we could easily turn round and say ‘which part of the word ‘yes’ do you not understand from the 16 to 18 – if you include romania and bulgaria – other countries that have said ‘yes’ to this constitution?’ we are not faced with an issue of overwhelming rejection or of overwhelming acceptance, but we are facing a problem of divergence. and what do we do in the union when there is a problem of divergence? we sit down, talk it through and try to find a solution acceptable to everyone. that is how we make progress. that is why it is right to take the time to have this period of reflection and to prolong it and look at what is possible. it is also right to address not just the question of the text, but also the context – l’europe des projets, the hampton court agenda, the issues that are close to people – and then, in due course, in a new context, we can decide what to do about the text. make no mistake about it: we will have to decide what to do about the text. the issues that treaty was intended to address have not disappeared. they have not vanished overnight and need solving. we will have to return to these issues, and it is quite correct to orient the period of reflection towards them. it may be that in a year’s time and in a new context it will be possible to retain this text as it stands, or with certain additions clarifying it, or with interpretations, or with additional protocols, or by rewriting part 3, as some have suggested. it may also be that this is not possible and it has to be broken up. the conclusion may be that we will have to live with the existing treaties for ever more because it is now impossible to change them. however, all this will emerge in due course. now is not the time to make that choice. now is not the time to say that we need to rewrite the text. we will take that decision at the end of the period of reflection, and rightly so. (applause)
mr president, i wish i was making this speech in a parliament based in brussels rather than in this chamber, since the ongoing strasbourg circus, now exacerbated by financial scandal, brings our house into disrepute. i welcome, of course, the fact that bulgaria and romania are on track to join the european union in 2007, even if there are still issues to be resolved, such as the system – or lack of a system – for the protection of children in romania, and the level of organised crime in bulgaria. however, delaying their admission by one more year would serve no purpose other than to send the wrong signal to their peoples and governments. on the vexed issue of what to do about the eu constitution, i agree with those who say it is dead in its current format. nevertheless, even those of us opposed in principle to a constitution, with a foreign minister, permanent president and binding charter of fundamental rights, accept there is a need for treaty adjustment in order to accommodate future enlargement beyond the nice formula and to settle the increasing imbalance between small and large member states in terms of voting rights in the institutions. this matter can only get worse with the proliferation of mini-states in the western balkans – as recently seen with the independence of montenegro – all of which are likely to become full members in the next ten years. i would also be in favour of retrieving the proposed powers to increase the influence of national parliaments and of more transparency in the co-legislative process in the council of ministers, whose current behaviour is far too secretive. that is why i particularly deplore the u-turn by the british foreign secretary, margaret beckett, which completely contradicts both the views of her prime minister and the general thrust of reform and transparency in the european union. it is deeply regrettable that the british government, unlike its danish partner, is not cross-examined or mandated in the house of commons before deciding on its voting position in the council of ministers. the whole process of framing legislation would be empowered, both in the house of commons and for the british people, if uk ministers went before the house of commons and were asked which way they were going to vote in the council of ministers and then did so in a totally transparent and open fashion. i would therefore say ‘no’ to mrs beckett on her views on transparency in the council of ministers.
i have received seven motions for resolution see minutes. tabled to wind up the debate under rules 103(2) and 108(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 12.30. written statements (rule 142)
i should like to extend a warm welcome to mr k.p. sharma oli, the deputy prime minister and minister for foreign affairs of nepal, who has taken his seat in the distinguished visitors’ gallery. (applause) mr sharma oli has held meetings with the chairmen of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on development, and this afternoon will participate in a meeting with parliament’s saarc delegation, whose chairwoman, mrs gill, is sitting here today in a wonderful shade of green. we are very pleased that mr sharma oli has taken this opportunity to visit parliament and to tell us about the most recent developments in nepal. we trust that this visit will further enhance and develop relations between the european parliament and nepal.
mr president, on a point of order, i would like to invoke rule 35 with reference to this vote. under rule 35(1), for all commission proposals of a legislative nature, the committee responsible shall verify the legal basis. rule 35(4) says that the committee should have disputed the validity of the proceedings regarding the period of reflection and the ratification process. this is for two reasons. first of all, under the eu’s own rules, any member state rejecting the constitutional treaty has right of veto, and therefore it should be dead. my second point – and the most important point to me – is that the european constitution is unconstitutional in terms of the british constitution in relation to magna carta, the bill of rights and various other acts of ...
in writing. the british conservatives abstained on the gargani report, since while we greatly appreciated the attempt by the rapporteur to strike the appropriate note of caution when trying to identify the proper application of the court’s judgment, we do not agree it is even necessary to consider whether or not there is a need to activate the passerelle clause. we believe that more time is needed to consider what, if any, steps should be taken on the specific and immediate ramifications of this judgment before seeking to use it as a pretext for usurping national competence in criminal justice matters.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues are fundamentally committed to upholding equal opportunities for all. however, we have abstained on this report since in places it is over-detailed and prescriptive, and where it does propose specific measures it is far from clear that these would help member states to develop a coherent and consistent anti-discrimination policy.
in writing. i welcome this report, which stipulates that the fight against discrimination must be based on education. the report encourages the promotion of best practices and campaigns targeting the general public and those areas and sectors where discrimination takes place. given that discrimination largely stems from ignorance as regards other people, the report highlights the fact that the problem should therefore be tackled at source, by means of targeted actions designed to foster tolerance and diversity from early childhood; programmes such as socrates, leonardo and jeunesse have a crucial role to play in this regard. the report explains that positive steps should be taken to overhaul recruitment policies and practices in order to remove those that impede disadvantaged groups from participating and playing an important role in society. i regret that the commission is not planning at this stage to draw up comprehensive legislation to combat discrimination given that traditional national minorities urgently need a framework policy standard to create effective participation in decision-making processes concerning their identity, not only to overcome the double standards established by the copenhagen criteria but also to combat a lack of any rules in the member states.
in writing. let me be clear. for me, both romania and bulgaria and for that matter, turkey, could meet the criteria for membership of the eu. what concerns me is that the former two still have some way to go, in my opinion, before they can join the union. there are problems with corruption and the rule of law. it is important for both countries to continue to consolidate the ongoing reform of their justice systems, enhancing transparency, efficiency and the impartiality of their judiciary. with bulgaria, we also have continued widespread discrimination against the roma community in housing, healthcare, education and employment. they suffer from social exclusion. i realise that on the basis of parliament's position, we can only delay membership from 2007 to 2008. at the moment, given the opportunity, i would have to vote to postpone bulgaria's membership, and would have to consider my position carefully with respect to romania.
in writing. another wearisome debate dominated by the slow-learning fanatics of a failed and rejected constitution. they think that by repeatedly swearing allegiance to that which voters, when permitted, have repudiated, they will somehow resuscitate it. in voting against the resolution i again stand on the side of the citizen who wants less not more europe, states rights not brussels control, and local not central power. the degree of energy wasted by the political leaders of europe in trying to foist an unwanted constitution on our people is quite staggering. rejection may not be palatable, but it must be faced.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party (eplp) recognises that the proposed constitutional treaty addresses many important issues which need to be dealt with in order for an eu of 25 or more member states to work effectively and democratically. we have abstained on this resolution, however, because we believe it attempts to prejudge the outcomes of the period of reflection and because it could be seen as showing insufficient sensitivity to the democratic outcomes of the french and dutch referenda. we believe it more important for the eu to be delivering tangible benefits to its citizens before returning to the structural reforms for better decision-making.
author. – this parliament’s procedures leave us in a position of weakness. we are, after all, trying to influence the document that will go to the european council this week, but in practice i assume that has already been written, finalised, translated into 20 different languages and our impact in this chamber is likely to be somewhat limited. perhaps that is something to consider in future. however, i wish to congratulate the austrian presidency, because it has at least made this a priority; it has tried to pull together the threads and it has looked at ways to take this agenda forward, which is welcome. to me the big issue, though, is implementation. take one example: national sustainable development strategies have to be prepared in all cases by next june. but what if they are not? what tools, what mechanisms, do we have to ensure that member states actually deliver on the pledges the prime ministers will agree this friday? we need more indicators. there is a good suggested list here in austria’s draft paper, but it is simply not comprehensive enough. we need specific performance tables; we need the opportunity to name and shame, to point the finger at those member states that pay lip service to the idea of sustainable development, but do not match their fine words with deeds. what we really need is for the commission, as the independent arbiter, to be able to find mechanisms to put pressure on member states which are so reluctant to rock the boat within the council and to point the finger at one another. five years ago, when the natura 2000 programme was being prepared, commissioner wallström, the then environment commissioner, used the fact that structural funds could be withheld unless the habitats directive was properly complied with as a means of encouraging the process. that threat of withholding money from member states brought about a dramatic transformation in performance and the submission of new ideas. i hope that over the next few months and years the commission will come up with mechanisms of that kind to really put pressure on member states where it hurts.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the renewal of the sustainable development strategy is very welcome, but it must become more focused. the need to have better coordination with other cross-cutting strategies like lisbon is well established, but we also need to have better coordination within the sustainable development strategy itself. we need to think clearly and recognise that some of our sustainable development policies could potentially conflict with others. for example, we are committed to a european target for biofuels and i very much support this, but the sustainable development strategy also includes a commitment to sustainable forest management and to halting the loss of biodiversity. a badly thought-through expansion of biofuels could result in virgin forests being destroyed and habitats lost. a properly thought-through biofuels policy would mean european vehicles running on biofuels from certified sources only. so i would beg the presidency in this regard simply to use the strategy as a starting point for much more detailed work on sustainability.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, these questions show the european social model in flashing lights. however, the european social model is a mishmash that pleases no one: a bit of free market here and a bit of welfare state there, mixed with a little green posturing. the eu dictates that one size fits all and, judging by the identical wording of these group questions, one size does appear to fit all. however, in the independence and democracy group, we realise that one size will never fit all. i am free to say that my party, ukip, can never support the lisbon strategy, because it is the failed strategy of a commission that has no legal right to dictate economic policy to my country. it is for this reason that the eu can never impose a sustainable development strategy on britain. there is, however, a ppe-de one-sizing problem. last september, david cameron was quoted in the daily telegraph as ‘fighting to end the eu’s damaging social role’ and leaving it to focus on ‘making the single market work properly’. yet we now have a tory mep, mr bowis, asking how the eu will enhance its social role in economic policy. no wonder mr cameron’s pledge to leave the ppe-de group has become such a huge joke. or, as i always say, ‘eu must be joking’.
on behalf of the verts/ale group . – mr president, i welcome the strong statements that we have heard from the council, the commission and my colleagues in the house, and wish that other politicians would be as clear and as forthright as they have been in their condemnation of racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism, homophobia and other hate speech and hate crimes. as has already been said this afternoon, the list in this resolution is a sad one, but it is not exhaustive. we could have added the tragic murders of young men in the united kingdom recently, and it is clear that no eu member state is free from this hatred. but i do not think we should be seeking to remove countries’ names from resolutions. this week, we took a very brave stance on guantánamo; i think we should be doing the same thing when we come to look at what is happening within our own member states and be absolutely clear that we are not going to tolerate that either. it is very easy to be brave about third countries; it is much more difficult to be brave, in some respects, about your own, and i think that is a shame. people on european soil have the right to live free from violence; they have the right to live in peace; and that, i believe, is unequivocal. the political response of governments and other institutions to racist and homophobic attacks is crucial and sends very strong signals. it took numerous deaths in the united kingdom, and one in particular, before our police services realised that they were institutionally racist and set out to change that. it is still a long, slow struggle but progress is under way. if we are going to speak out, we also need to be critical of some of our media, which is also determined, it seems to me, to sow hatred rather than information and integrity. (applause)
(the speaker spoke irish) my constituency in the north of ireland has seen a number of violent attacks on communities from other member states and from further afield, as well as a consistent level of homophobic violence. we also experience ongoing sectarian attacks, such as the recent murder of a 15-year old catholic boy, michael mcilveen. it is absolutely vital that the council now adopt the 2001 framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. i would echo calls for the finnish presidency to restart work on this with all urgency and, as we have heard today, for the council to adopt the decisions without watering them down. national governments and other institutions must respond adequately. (the speaker continued in irish)
mr president, i am saddened by what i have heard here this afternoon from our polish colleagues from the league of polish families and the law and justice party. i have heard from them about the promotion of hatred, the promotion of discrimination, the promotion of evil. we have heard family and religion used as a reason or an excuse. there is no reason, and there is no excuse, for the promotion of hatred. i have heard traditional values referred to. what value is there in diminishing the lives of ordinary human beings? there is none. this house was built on the ashes of the second world war. when it was built we vowed that no minority would ever be scapegoated again. we stand by that. we will defend that. i was in warsaw on the march that your government tried to ban. let me say to you: the reception that we got from those decent, ordinary people confirmed to me that your two parties do not represent those decent ordinary men and women of poland! (loud applause)
mr president, we have a huge and inexcusable gap in eu action. our citizens must be very puzzled. on the one hand we have good laws and a new strategy to outlaw discrimination against people as employees and consumers. however, the eu is failing to outlaw hate crimes against people as people. it is failing to delivery security from fear, even though we talk a lot about creating an area of freedom, security and justice. president barroso enjoined us this morning to be proud of europe and its values. so why is there a lack of action on hate crimes when member states can agree criminal penalties for pollution crimes? is it complacency? is it ignorance? is it a lack of political will? i hope to avoid any more high-flown rhetoric about a europe of values while our leaders refuse to act. meps are agreed, including, i am glad to say, mr gaubert for the ppe-de group, in demanding that action. i would say to mr roszkowski that his mention of paedophiles in the context of sexual orientation is deeply misplaced and disgraceful. nothing suggests that paedophilia is more prevalent among homosexuals proportionately – indeed it is probably the contrary.
president-in-office, if you have been subject to racial or homophobic violence you will never forget it. when my parents arrived in this european union from india, we were not welcomed with open arms: we suffered regular racial abuse and violence. you never forget it once it happens. what i would say to my polish colleagues, and to anyone else who doubts that action can be taken here in this house today, is that we want action. the council framework decision is at the heart of this resolution. i would say to those colleagues who disagree about whether we should name individuals, i have to agree with it, because it is a deeply personal tragedy which you will never forget. however, i would say this to the austrian presidency: you can make this happen. it has been shelved so many times, but racist attacks can be solved, penalties can be increased, a political signal can be sent. will it stop the hatred? no, it will not. but you mentioned leadership, and leadership is what we seek today, because this scar on europe today in 2006 is greater than when my parents arrived in this european union in the 1960s. that is a deep shame. let us do something about it. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, we support the principle of the proposed international arms trade treaty. small arms, in the wrong hands, prolong and exacerbate some of the world’s most brutal conflicts. however, we are under no illusions that so long as certain arms manufacturing nations remain outside the scope of international treaties, then oppressive governments, terrorists and insurgents and other organised criminal groups will continue to have easy access to weaponry. the british arms industry already operates to some of the highest standards in the world and the british defence manufacturers’ association has said that it warmly welcomes the principle behind the international arms trade treaty. if other countries were willing to emulate the strict standards enforced by the united kingdom, an arms treaty would certainly be a worthwhile asset and a boon to international security. however, responsible countries such as the united kingdom and other eu member states will only achieve a hollow moral victory if other less conscientious nations rush to fill the gap in arms sales left by our absence. the united nations, and not the european union, is the arena in which to pursue an international arms trade treaty and it must include as many countries as possible, and particularly china, if it is to have the desired effect. amnesty international has recently identified china as one of the world’s major arms exporters, with increasing influence in asia, africa and latin america. chinese weapons have helped sustain conflicts and human rights violations in sudan, nepal, burma and southern africa. i am reminded that china also continues to stockpile enormous quantities of anti-personnel landmines. for many years i have worked to overcome the problem of anti-personnel landmines, but i have always sought to focus attention on the real culprits, who use such weapons indiscriminately and irresponsibly. usually, these have been armed rebel groups in developing countries which are supplied by non-western countries. i think it is important, therefore, that when considering the matter of small arms, we should take care not to become over-obsessed with our own authorities or legitimate traders engaged in transparent activities. instead, we should focus on terrorist groups and other criminal elements that are either sitting on stockpiles of weapons or continuing to obtain them from various sources. that is the area on which we should now concentrate our attention. let us also work hard to bring china and other such countries into the scope of an international treaty.
mr president, with 80 million new guns manufactured each year, and one person killed by a gun every minute, the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons fuels conflict, crime and terrorism across the globe. five years after the un programme of action was agreed, the forthcoming review conference must not just review: it must act. it should recognise key gaps, such as the transfer of small arms to non-state actors and, ultimately, ways of reducing the demand for small arms. it should address controls for licensed production deals, like that adopted for austrian steyr rifles in malaysia. as mr winkler says, europe can offer leadership in this debate, demonstrating the effectiveness of our code of conduct on arms sales. i hope the council will offer new commitments to extend financial support to projects aimed at limiting small arms proliferation and their use – currently just eur 2 million in the cfsp budget – and by building on the proposals for an eu strategy for security sector reform, started under last year’s uk presidency of the eu and, indeed, at the austrian presidency conference on the western balkans. last year european member states, as part of the un, agreed a tracing instrument for small arms that was neither comprehensive – covering guns, not bullets – nor legally binding. this year eu representatives must show that we have the political will to go further to promote the proposal already endorsed by the council and parliament for a legally binding international arms trade treaty, and to ensure, both at the review conference this july and at the un first committee in october, a resolution to set up a working group to begin to make it happen.
deputising for the author. – the illegal trade in human kidneys has become a multi-million-euro industry, with european patients whose lives are at risk desperately trying to find donors on the internet. in far too many cases they are just preying on poor people in developing countries. for those donors the motivation is money, not the health and quality of life the recipients can expect. in listening to your answer, president-in-office, i would remind you that in too many cases that trade is linked to human rights abuses in the form of the involuntary removal of organs from prisoners due for execution in china. three years after this was voted in the european parliament, an answer that you are seeking more information from experts is really not good enough. i ask you to seek best efforts within the council to unblock this very important proposal.
thank you, president-in-office, i am very glad that the austrian presidency has been particularly active on that. i should just like to come to the question of certification, which was in my original question. this morning commissioner piebalgs mentioned, in a question-and-answer session, that there would be certification to underwrite the sustainability of biofuels. certainly there has been anxiety over illegal logging and certification being difficult to get right in practice, even if it looked good on paper. i should be grateful if you could give me a little more detail on that.
biomass is a most important form of energy, accounting for 65% of the renewable energy used in the eu. however, the total percentage of renewable energy used in the eu has remained at 6% since 1990. therefore, does the austrian presidency agree that any realistic common energy policy should include the use of nuclear power?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, since the start of this parliament i have worked on several reports dealing with security issues in the transport sector. i notice that on each occasion we seem to have exactly the same debates, whether the report deals with seaports or, as in this case, airports and aviation. different industries face different threats necessitating different security measures. however, the report in front of us today is one that will probably have the greatest impact on the safety of europe’s citizens. in general i welcome this proposal. clear rules for security across europe’s airports are absolutely necessary. however – and here i speak personally – i have some concerns about some of the measures. firstly, within the proposals before us, the commission attempts to accrue more power for itself. what i refer to is the issue of special security measures. those generally short-term increases in security, based on national intelligence, should not have to be approved by the commission before being implemented. the commission does not have the facility of intelligence-sharing, nor should it have, in my opinion. therefore it does not have the ability to carry out that task effectively. in some cases that particular position could jeopardise security itself. it is for member states to decide on what extra measures they deem necessary. the commission’s role should be to coordinate, not to dictate. the issue of in-flight security does not belong in this regulation. again, those are measures for individual governments and their own air carriers. my greatest concern is the proposal contained in some of the amendments adopted in committee to extend the competences of the european aviation safety agency to take on security. when the easa was originally set up, it was generally agreed that it would deal with safety issues and have no influence on security. i remember well the problems caused in some languages by that definition. since then the easa has not proved itself competent, even in this area of work. i do not see why, given that failing, extra powers should be given to it. despite these reservations i see the benefits of common security standards across the union. with the heightened terrorist threat to aviation today, improvements in security must and should be encouraged. thus, with the support of a number of colleagues, i have tabled some amendments that not only address my concerns but all of those across the industry. i hope we can achieve a workable solution to these issues. common standards, not draconian regulation, are required for the continued safety for all europe’s citizens.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr ó neachtain, for his initiative in highlighting the special needs and the economic and social importance of the inshore fishing sector. it is a vitally important network of mostly small, mostly family-run businesses, which are the lifeblood of most of our small coastal communities. around the coast and the many islands of scotland, it is a sector that is of the utmost importance and it undoubtedly has not benefited from the political support it deserves. unfortunately, though, scotland’s offshore fishing industry has not had a happy experience as a result of the common fisheries policy. so there is not a great demand – to put it mildly – for new eu legislation specific to inshore fisheries. however, support for initiatives in, for example, the fields of vessel safety, fuel economy, training and investment funding is worth pursuing at local and eu level, through the european fisheries fund. in scotland it is not just the cfp that has been bad for our fishing communities. over the years, the scottish and uk governments too have failed to support eu initiatives by cofinancing. i hope that if, as a result of this report, we move towards some specific new programmes to assist coastal fishing, the scottish government will be persuaded to provide the necessary support. our small coastal communities have a very long history, with generations of families making a living from fishing. i would like to see those communities returned to a state where the young and the future generations have some hope of being able to follow in that tradition.
mr president, i commend the rapporteur for his hard work in drawing attention to the needs of an often neglected sector in fishing. in my own constituency of northern ireland, our sector is equally feeling the pressures identified in this report, and indeed a recent political decision to deprive the white fish fleet of tie-up aid, as compensation for losses inflicted by the cod recovery scheme closure has put added pressure on the inshore sector and on inshore fish and shellfish stock, because those denied tie-up aid are forced into the domain of that sector. however, uk fishermen’s experience of the common fisheries policy, whatever the conservative party might now say, has been so negative that, in consequence and in conscience, i could not advocate what amounts to the full extension of the common fisheries policy controls to the inshore sector. this is where i part company with the rapporteur. he thinks that the answer for the inshore sector is more europe. i disagree, for two reasons. firstly, yes, we need marketing assistance, fleet modernisation, fuel assistance, and proper recognition of the potential needs of inshore fishing, but the imposition of european harmonisation – fishing gear control, data collection, a new community initiative – is the path, i fear, to restriction, not to growth. secondly, only some countries would take up the match funding opportunities which might arise in return for eu regulation and competence. countries like mine, the united kingdom, would not take that up and therefore disparity in this sector across europe would intensify, not diminish, and my inshore fishermen would have all the pain of eu regulation, with none of the gain of available assistance. for those reasons i am obliged to say that i cannot support this report, although i readily acknowledge the genuine motivations the rapporteur had in bringing it forward.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr ó neachtain, and to welcome the commissioner here. i too believe that the inshore fishing community is very much the backbone of our fishing community. however, after our experience with the common fisheries policy in the south-west of england we dread it extending its tentacles even further. i think we have to look at the overall take of fish – not just what has been caught inshore, but also what has been taken further out to sea – because, whether we like it or not, there is a limited number of fish and the future of inshore fishing relies greatly on adding value to the fish that is caught. when talking about inshore fishing we must also not ignore recreational fishermen and anglers, because they are very much part of the future. we really must make the most of the fish that is caught. fuel prices and costs are an important factor and there again we need to look to the future. we might not have electrical boats now, but we could in the future. the vessels up to 12 metres long, which is what we are referring to, are quite large vessels and capable of catching a lot of fish. so we have to be careful about the size of the nets. that is where i disagree with mr allister, because we have to sustain fish stocks and ensure that the larger fish are caught and the smaller ones are left to grow. if we do not face up to the fact of diminishing fish stocks, whatever policy we bring in will not create the extra fish that we all need.
mr president, a bit less fraud here, a bit more fraud there! this report is a sad catalogue of failure – failure to direct enormous amounts of eu funds to where they were intended. but this is just one of the ways in which eu funds are wasted. despite all the apparent good intentions, a large proportion of the cash is spent on daft projects that advertise the eu or support the disgraceful common agricultural policy; and all this has spawned a whole industry of bureaucrats who exist merely to produce the relevant paperwork for applying for and dealing with the grants. another huge waste! eu money is easy money – provided you fill in the forms nicely, or forge them. the whole system has fallen into contempt. where is the incentive for member states to use their own resources to police the use of the funds? let us stop fussing about how we achieve marginal reductions in what we call fraud, and instead think more deeply about the true value that is added by all this misuse of eu taxpayers’ cash.
in writing. i used my vote to endorse amendments 354 and 352 as a means of opposing funding of research activities aimed at the cloning of human embryos. the proposal from the committee diminished the safeguards in the original commission proposal by allowing the funding of research on so-called supernumerary embyros, with no prohibition on funding activities which would be contrary to the oviedo convention (i.e. cloning for research and germ-line intervention). i also strongly hold that national standards and legislation must not be overriden or diluted by eu activities, including eu-funded research.
in writing. i voted for this report. the future of europe depends on high tech, high skill, high value-added jobs. these will be generated by high levels of research and development spending close to the market. the money available is better but still inadequate, particularly in view of the bizarre wastage of the cap, where europe's cows live on more, with two dollars per day, than do 700 million chinese. i also welcome the passing of committee amendment 66, which will allow funding for stem cell research where it is approved by member state law and subject to strict controls. we all know people whose lives could be transformed on the basis of stem cell research. i neither wish to deprive them of the political benefits nor drive the research from europe to the far east
in writing. i am pleased to have voted in favour of including stem cell research, among other things, in this report. scientific research can mean real progress against chronic conditions unreachable by traditional scientific approaches. anyone who has lived with relatives who suffer from debilitating and chronic conditions hopes for progress in treatment. i know from my own personal experience with family members that this vote today can alter the lives of hundreds of thousands of people across the eu. there is, on an alternative issue, a growing need to link some businesses with the research programmes. too little effort is still being made to accommodate such businesses – more must be done.
in writing. british conservatives support the principle of a common approach to civil aviation security across the eu. however, we could not support any extension of commission competence, which could frustrate the overwhelming case for member states to determine when there is a need for heightened security measures in their own territories. neither could we support the extension of the scope of this regulation to in-flight security, nor the extension on competence of the european aviation safety agency, at least until it has proven its ability to operate its current safety functions in a competent and efficient manner. for these reasons, conservatives abstained on the final vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of those amendments that were designed to protect the interests of my constituents in gibraltar. it is outrageous that common rules in the field of civil aviation security do not automatically apply to gibraltar because of the ongoing refusal by spain to recognise gibraltar as a full part of the european union. this continued harassment only entrenches, understandably, hard-line views in gibraltar. i would recommend that any long-term solution is more likely to follow from carrots and not sticks.
in writing. british conservatives support the objectives behind the sustainable development strategy but believe that this resolution is unduly negative as to the progress that is being made. the european parliament must recognise that sustainable economic growth is a prerequisite and a catalyst for sustainable development, rather than being a threat or alternative to it. we welcome the focus that is being placed on meeting our international obligations but believe that the time has come to focus on enforcing and monitoring existing targets and regulation, rather than creating a never-ending stream of legislation that is enforced – at best – inconsistently. failure to meet the environmental targets that we have already agreed to would fundamentally undermine europe’s credibility in the area of sustainable development.
in writing. i welcome today's very positive vote and hope that its contents will not be forgotten when we come to look at our policies on growth in the future: the emphasis on quality and the decoupling of growth from resource use are very important points. i also welcome the willingness of the austrian presidency to listen to the points made in our deliberations in preparing this resolution. they have made an historic step in their proposal to council in taking up the need to develop a better training strategy, albeit only in certain sectors at present, to equip the construction sector, architects, etc. with the necessary skills to work in an environmentally positive way. this is something i have been urging the commission to take on board for some time and i hope for a positive response. we cannot meet our climate change targets if we do not have a workforce with the necessary skills to deliver. i also welcome the recognition that social cohesion is a necessary part of sustainable development: the poorest people often live and work in the worst environmental circumstances, whether in the eu or africa. our policies must deliver for everyone.
in writing. racist violence, alas, is now prevalent throughout europe and must be vigorously addressed. i regret though that the resolution on this important subject was misused as a vehicle to attack internal government composition in member states, which is the product of the democratic process and, frankly, beyond the remit of the european parliament. such drove me to vote against the resolution. in terms of the standards and ethics expected of democratic parties i very much regret that in northern ireland the ulster unionist party has seen fit to invite into its stormont assembly party the political representative of the uvf, an illegal organisation which has been mired in racist, sectarian and other violence. such shameful association not only diminishes those who so taint themselves but undermines what should be a united stand by all democratic parties against criminality, whether of the racist or any other variety.
in writing. in considering the issues raised in this report, it is necessary to make clear that whilst we are opposed to intolerance, we think that the criticism of the new polish government is counterproductive and that it is up to the poles to democratically resolve these issues.
in writing. as national treasurer of the anti-nazi league in britain and a member of the steering committee of unite against fascism, i had the privilege of speaking at the recent 'love music, hate racism' event in trafalgar square to urge opposition to england's home-grown fascist party, the bnp, in the local elections. in my speech i warned again that there was a rising tide of racism in europe. all too soon i have been proved right. we have racist and fascist parties in france and italy, belgium and denmark that have been with us for some time. what is most worrying is the sudden regrowth of racism, homophobia and anti-semitism in poland, aided and abetted by fellow-travelling colleagues in the current polish government and european parliament. all those opposed to racism in europe must unite together against this new wave of hatred and intolerance.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues abhor any actions by individuals, governments or political parties to incite racism, anti-semitism and homophobia. any person or organisation perpetrating or inciting such discrimination should be subject to the full force of the law. we believe in liberty and the rights of individuals to live their lives free from fear of persecution and prejudice. however, we were unable to support the joint motion for a resolution because it undermines the cause of tolerance by arbitrarily listing specific incidents and specific events and organisations. the motivation for the motion appears to be unnecessarily confrontational, rather than a genuine attempt to promote the cause of tolerance and non-discrimination. consequently, we have abstained on the final vote.
in writing. in considering the issues raised in this report it is necessary to make clear that whilst i am opposed to intolerance i do think that the criticism of the new polish government is counterproductive and that it is up to the poles to democratically resolve these issues. in addition it must be understood that poland is a profoundly catholic country and the people as a result will reflect their catholic beliefs in exactly the same manner as muslims reflect the islamic view on homosexuality. it is rare that the parliament, if indeed ever, criticises muslims for holding such views and it only reflects double standards if catholics are to be treated differently.
in writing. i welcome this resolution and was proud to vote for it. yesterday's debate clearly illustrated how far we have still to go in establishing equality of respect within the eu. many people have expressed their concern at the homophobic feelings voiced in parliament’s chamber. fortunately, the vast majority of this house rejected these statements and has given a strong voice to criticism of at least two member states and to racist acts in others. this is a welcome step. politicians have a crucial role in establishing a climate that rejects violence and hate speech: it is part of establishing an inclusive society. as we are confronting politicians who promote prejudice, we must also do the same when this is done by the media and our institutions. we must face up to the human rights abuses in the eu. this positive vote today is part of that process.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, in the wine trade i would be described as an amateur du vin. in layman’s terms, that means i can tell my claret from my hock. indeed, i have taken exams under the uk’s wine and spirit education trust scheme and have reached the level just below master of wine, so perhaps i speak with a little authority here. the british market is unusual inside the eu in that it has been growing at a dramatic rate for many years. however, we are eschewing wines from the eu in favour of wines from around the world, in particular australia and california. why should this be, you ask? could it simply be that they make wine that suits the customer’s palate? producers in these and other new world countries are not bound by pettifogging bureaucracy that tells them which grapes to grow where and then how to make the wines. they produce unsubsidised wines that people want to buy, at a price they can afford. but there is another factor in play and that is product information. consider this situation: you are in a supermarket looking at hundreds of bottles of wine. you pick up a bottle – like this elegant pomerol, for example – and try to find out something about it. not everybody carries sotheby’s wine encyclopaedia around with them. why should they? they look to the bottle for information. the pomerol is sadly lacking in information. however, this bottle of wine from california tells you more about wine on a label three inches square – that is 10 cm – than most people will ever need to know, including the fact that it was matured in american oak for 12 months. gaining and keeping customers is what business is all about. creating more rules for eu producers to abide by will cripple them and their industry and no amount of subsidy will save them.
mr president, according to rule ... – i do not know what number! – it is not permitted to be a salesman selling a commercial product in the chamber of this house, which is what i believe mr wise has just been up to.
author. – mr president, i have photographs here of the death and destruction in east timor. they could be pictures from 1999, but they are not. they were sent by a friend a month ago, following the terrible date of 28 april when death and riots hit dili again. in 2002 i led the eu mission to monitor the presidential election followed by independence, and we saw clearly what a good job untaet had done under the much-lamented sergio vieira de mello. we saw how australia and the other international troops had kept the peace. we saw how unhcr had helped the refugees come back from west timor and elsewhere. then they all left, and for a time, under president xanana and the government of east timor, things looked good. but then the losers of the past struggles, those in the old militias who did not find jobs and others who were disgruntled exposed that dormant ethnic faultline between loro monu and loro sae, the west and east of east timor, and tensions between army and police, and so on. now we must call back the united nations with its agencies, including the civilian police, but this time both they and the international troops of australia and malaysia and others must stay to ensure stability, and this time the european union must be closely involved again and certainly not cut its aid as dramatically as happened after 2002. the latest member of the acp is east timor. we meet with them at the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in vienna this coming week and i hope that we can all pull together to ensure that we close ranks to support the people of east timor, so that they can renew that progress towards peace, stability and prosperity.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, it saddens me that back in 1999 i made my maiden speech in the european parliament on east timor, shortly before the united nations sent in a peacekeeping force which paved the way for its eventual independence. to date, it remains the youngest member of the united nations, as from 2002. here we are again debating violent unrest in the territory and once again australia, new zealand, portugal and malaysia have had to intervene to establish law and order in what is now a sovereign state. i would particularly like to express appreciation of the efforts made by australia in its region in its peacekeeping role, as we recently also saw in the case of the solomon islands. i support the efforts made by president xanana gusmao and the international community to bypass the prime minister, who seems to be refusing to resign and is very intransigent, and to disarm the paramilitary groups, re-establish law and order and enable aid and reconstruction to flow back into the territory. i am sure this house will support the european union and the united nations in whatever way is necessary to achieve lasting piece and reconciliation on this tragic but beautiful remote island.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would echo the words of my group colleague, mr romeva i rueda, and emphasise everything that he and others have said on the situation in east timor. here we are again in an urgency debate in which the few members present will largely agree that it is bad that bad things are happening somewhere in the world. the commissioner will doubtless largely agree with us. though i would suggest – and i would ask the commissioner for his view – that it would be useful for the council to be represented in these debates in order to make them that little bit more relevant and meaningful. as i say, i emphasise and reiterate the views of mr tannock and mr romeva i rueda about the situation in east timor. this motion for a resolution has a number of concrete steps that we ourselves can take to alleviate the situation in that troubled part of the world. it is tragic that a country has regained its independence in order to collapse into such anarchy and that, so many years later, it is still not that much further forward. we have a number of ideas in this motion for a resolution to help alleviate that and i hope we will be acting on them.
author. – mr president, we are correct and honour-bound in this chamber to take note of and highlight human rights abuses in syria. to express our concern is the very least we can do. this motion does, in truth, little more than that. i grew up in the middle east, so i know the region pretty well. we also need to take account of the wider backdrop to these issues. the fact is that we in europe are not seen as the good guys. we are not seen as having clean hands. i would refer you to the official government statement of the ministry of foreign affairs of syria issued on 19 may 2006. it says: ‘states which allowed secret flying prisons to cross their airspace and to use their airports and which permitted secret prisons on their territories, which represents a clear infraction of the simplest human rights and international treaties related to this topic, do not have the right to propagate the defence of human rights.’ we have left ourselves in a position where syria can accuse us of breaching human rights. it is a crazy world, right enough. we are not seen as being the good guys. hypocrisy is the most odious charge we can be accused of. we stand accused of it right now, with some justification. we need to do more to put our own house in order, as well as look after syria’s.
mr president, beyond chancellor schüssel’s bonhomie, i think we can sense his frustration at the problem of shepherding 25 fairly feline characters towards agreeing a mandate for a fresh intergovernmental conference. now that you are becoming freer from the constraints of the presidency, chancellor schüssel, would you wish to push forward the debate by sharing with us your top priorities as subjects, as chapters for renegotiation inside part iii?
mr president, it is a pleasure for me, on behalf of my british conservative colleagues and as internal market committee coordinator for the ppe-de group, to thank the austrian presidency for what i think has been a presidency of real substance and real achievement – i have to say in contrast to their predecessors in the previous six months. the characteristic of this presidency, chancellor schüssel, has been that you have been essentially realistic. you have not overpromised, but you have got on and delivered. i think the services directive has perhaps been the best example of that. your colleague martin bartenstein, who i have got to know very well over the last six months, was quoted in the wall street journal in december saying that it would be a miracle if you achieved agreement on the services directive during your presidency. well, there is a remarkable piece of underpromising and overdelivery! that miracle has been achieved by a lot of work between us in this parliament. i have to say to mr schulz, who i was astonished to hear just now claiming that the services directive appeared to be a triumph of orthodoxy, that miracle was actually achieved by serious work to produce a liberalising free market directive. in fact, the central clause that unlocked the agreement – the freedom to provide services – came as a result of the committee vote in this parliament, which was contested by the socialists. so, let us be clear about what the services directive is going to deliver. it is a major step forward for the internal market. finally, chancellor schüssel, it has been most welcome to see your approach to opening up the council as regards codecision and in inviting parliamentarians to your meetings. i am very disappointed that my own foreign secretary has apparently been against this transparency. all i would say to mr schulz is that, when i sat round the table in graz and heard the approach of the 25 ministers on the services directive, it was most certainly not because they felt that it was a triumph for socialism.
mr president, we must be very grateful to mr schüssel for his honesty in saying that the substance of the constitutional treaty must remain untouched. the message is loud and clear. the political elite knows best; full steam ahead with the constitution; and do not listen to the people. not only that, but mr barroso has told us that the next stage, next march, will be a political declaration, the berlin declaration. in time he might see that as a public relations miscalculation. mr schüssel finished by referring to beethoven’s ode to joy, the anthem of the european union. i think i can remember some of the words:„freude schöner götterfunken, tochter aus elysium! wir betreten feuertrunken, himmlische, dein heiligtum.“ i have always thought it unfair that beethoven should be associated with the european union given that in his own day he was a fervent opponent of european political integration under napoleon. (laughter) but the musical theme reminds me of another little tune. it did not have as great a composer as beethoven; it did not have as great a poet as schiller to write the words, but its words sum up the attitude of britain towards the european union: ‘who do you think you are kidding mr schüssel, if you think old england’s done? we are the boys who will make you think again, we are the boys who will stop your little game. who do you think you are kidding mr schüssel?’
mr president, last week in strasbourg, i condemned the brazen contempt that we show for public opinion, for the views of voters and for democracy itself when we repeatedly disregard the verdict of successive referendums. nowhere is this contempt for democracy better illustrated than by the actions of the austrian presidency. both the austrian president and chancellor schüssel have come to this house calling for the resurrection of a european constitution which is dead in its own terms. yet, as eurobarometer studies show, austria is the member state where opposition to the constitution is the highest, at around 80%. chancellor schüssel, you have called for referendums on the constitution, so why do you not offer a referendum to your own people? can it be because you know you would suffer a humiliating defeat? how can austrian leaders show such total disregard for public opinion? i can only think of one plausible explanation: perhaps chancellor schüssel is unhappy in his job and is hoping that the austrian people will vote him out of office! (applause from the ind/dem group)
(the speaker spoke irish) the irish peace process is at a critical juncture. the irish and british governments have set 24 november 2006 as the date for agreement to be reached among the political parties. however, ian paisley’s democratic unionist party has shown no interest in power-sharing or in progress and it has been allowed by the two governments to prevent progress being made. the irish and british governments must act to bring about the full implementation of the good friday agreement of 1998, which is an international treaty. i urge the finnish presidency to encourage everyone concerned to make progress and would ask parliament and the president to join in this call. without such progress, the peace process is in danger of unravelling further.
rapporteur. – mr president, it gives me pleasure to present our interim report and i would like to thank our secretariat, the chairman of our committee and the members for their support and work. the starting point for this report has been a disastrous personal event for thousands of eu citizens: the loss of their pension investments. the challenge now for us as the european parliament is to exercise our supervisory powers over eu legislation. we have perhaps a once-in-a-generation chance to look in detail at the implementation process of eu law, taking one particular directive as an example. did we the institutions get it right? did the member states get it right? how can we do better in the future? this fits well with our wider, better legislation agenda. in presenting the interim report, first let me deal with two items regarding the process: one general and one particular. this is the first such committee of inquiry in ten years. each time we have the chance to learn how to do this better in future, to build our own institutional knowledge. we have, as always, been asked to produce an interim report but, to report properly we need all the evidence, all the studies, all the answers to our inquiries to be available. having to produce an interim report as a matter of form is something of a distraction, although of course we like to keep our colleagues informed as to where we are. maybe we can think about this question for the future. this brings me to the particular aspect. our inquiry is about the eu aspects of this case. others have already made extensive inquiries in the uk and another, even more in-depth inquiry is due from the british parliamentary ombudsman in november 2006. it would be foolish for us to publish our report in advance of the information that report is likely to contain. the uk ombudsman has had substantial access to many uk actors in this drama. it makes no sense for us to repeat the exercise, but equally it would make no sense for us not to take account of these findings. hence we will need a little more time. this is foreseen in the report and we will ask the house to endorse our request for probably a couple more months to produce our final report. let me come to the ground that we have covered. this is set out mainly in the annex to the report. we have set up our working method, which involves a number of comparative studies; these have been commissioned. we have already heard a wealth of evidence, most importantly from many of the victims. their stories have been heartrending. they have made me angry – angry that they have been let down by their experience of our internal market for financial services. for them it has not produced extra choice, but rather the loss of life savings with no redress mechanisms available. we have learnt more details about the commission’s implementation checks – or rather i should say checklist. maybe we need to look for more checks in the future. we have seen the difficulty of inserting eu legislation into the existing fabric of member states’ legal and regulatory systems. it does not always fit. we have seen that we can raise undue expectations by what is written in eu law particularly, in this instance, about the availability of compensatory mechanisms. when it gets to member-state level, maybe something gets lost in translation. then there is the big missing part of the jigsaw: access to justice. where is this in a country-of-origin regime? let this be the real lesson to all of us. in this inquiry we have heard from victims sent from pillar to post. the commission has now admitted, in a note to us on home and host country authorities, that this does not work. let me read: ‘the directive can only work smoothly if there is good cooperation between home and host state authorities. it is not a satisfactory situation, where aggrieved policyholders are referred by the host state authority to the home state authority and are then sent back by the home to the host authority, thus to find themselves unable to have their case examined by either. the commission plans to seek further discussions with member states.’ i should jolly well hope so! if this inquiry does nothing else, i hope that we can put this injustice right. that is an indication of where we have got to as of now; there will be much more to come.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i am something of a thorn between two roses: ms wallis, who spoke so well today as the rapporteur, and the able and charming ms mcguinness, the chairman of our committee. that means that i often find myself caught between the two of them, but the work they have done is excellent and what ms wallis has spoken about today proves that point. we have had several meetings at which many organisations and individuals have presented evidence that confirms me in my judgement that this special committee was very necessary. we have been much impressed, angered and even moved by those speaking to us and the financial and emotional losses they are experiencing. we have also heard from some of those who are responsible for regulation. so far, i do not think there is any evidence of negligence or criminal activity, but i would characterise their behaviour so far as benign complacency. there are as yet no firm conclusions, but one loophole has been exposed. if a german or an irishman buys a policy from a british company, it is the british regulator who is responsible for the financial probity of that company. the german or irish regulators appear to play no role, but that does not help the eu citizen, for whom it is impractical, inconvenient and costly to pursue concerns with the british regulator, even supposing he were interested. the commission needs to address this. we continue our investigation, but we have no magic wand to restore the fortunes of the aggrieved policyholders. as ms wallis said, we must close the loopholes, learn from what has gone before and improve the position next time, especially as it relates to the activities of the commission.
mr president, this is a rare occasion for me: i have more than one minute’s speaking time and for once i am not going to disagree with anyone! i should like to emphasise one or two things that have been said and look at them from a slightly different perspective. there are a number of practical issues that ms wallis touched on, as indeed did sir robert atkins. the reality is that we have had many potential witnesses on our list; we have heard a few; and there are a great many more that we need to hear if we can. that includes many of the most important witnesses. another practical problem is that too many of these witnesses have come forward at the same meeting, so there has been very little time to interrogate them. there has been no real cross-examination; they are not under oath; we have not been able to subpoena them; and there is the practical problem that flows from the inevitable requirement of interpretation. taken together those are fairly serious weaknesses, although the committee is collectively doing its very best to overcome them. to give you an illustration of what i am talking about, the british government turned up en masse. a spokesman for the treasury, the financial services authority and the government actuary all arrived together, clearly having rehearsed their parts to the nth degree. they hunted as a pack, they stood together and we were unable to prise them apart or to check facts because they had come to admit nothing and to concede nothing. even their answers to specific questions were evasive. to give you one vivid illustration, they denied that the government or the equivalent department had any knowledge of problems with equitable life ten years before we knew – and we have proof that they did. with regard to the point about shared management, which has been raised by others, it seems to me that, in this case, shared management is turning out to be no management at all. the irish thought that the british government was checking on equitable life. if they were, they were saying nothing. so, the irish were kept in ignorance. if today, for example, a latvian financial services company started conducting business all over the european union, it seems each member state would assume that the latvian government was itself satisfied, but that would not necessarily be the case. this is not a reflection on latvia, just an example. however, if that company was outside the european union, every member state would check thoroughly. that is a problem.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs wallis, for an excellent interim report, as also the chairman, mrs mcguinness, who will, i am sure, be a thorn in the side of the regulators and ensure that we can get to the bottom of what actually happened with equitable life. equitable life is the world’s oldest assurance company; right up to the end of 1999, even westminster mps’ pension funds were still being invested in the company. thousands of investors have lost money because of the cost of over-bonusing ‘with-profit’ life assurance policies. many assurance companies offer with-profit policies – i have several such policies myself – but provided the company does not pay out more bonuses than it can afford the system works perfectly well. in my opinion, from the mid 1990s until 2000 the equitable life assurance society over-bonused its with-profit policies, which showed on paper at least that equitable life had the best results of all major assurance companies, thus encouraging people to take equitable life policies out. the problem is that the cost in real terms of overvaluing the policies meant that equitable life paid out nearly gbp 6 billion more than it earned between 1997 and 2000. no assurance company, however large, can afford such sums. from the information and evidence collected for the committee, it all seems very convenient that so many people carrying out the checks and balances of the company came very late to the party: i.e., the present board of management took over in 2000 after the company had all but ceased taking on new business; the financial services authority was not created until late 1999, so it is not responsible for what happened before it came into existence; the financial actuaries advising the uk government before the fsa was formed maintain that equitable life was always solvent, although one actuary giving evidence to our inquiry did admit there are up to six ways of valuing an insurance company. the committee has heard from many people who invested in equitable life and who have lost a great deal of money, which has caused them great hardship. the committee will carry on its work and we are determined to find out what went wrong with equitable life so that these problems do not happen in the future. we will try to get the best deal for those who have equitable life policies.
mr president, most of what needs to be said has been said already. i commend mrs wallis’s report. it is a very thorough interim report. i particularly welcome the request that we delay for three months. it is vital that we do not rush to judgment and that we await the outcome of the inquiries that are being undertaken in the united kingdom. of course we must look at the causes of this situation and the crisis that occurred, and particularly at the application of community law. in that respect i am pleased to be speaking before commissioner mccreevy. i look forward to what he has to say. it is vital, as i have said, that we do not rush to make a judgement. the witnesses have been extremely forthcoming and cooperative with the committee of inquiry. uppermost in our minds, as the former speaker said, is that we have some recourse to justice, but we must certainly ensure that another equitable life crisis never happens again. those people did what, arguably, we ask all good citizens to do: provide for their retirement, their future. they did so in what should be arguably one of the safest investment pots in any investment industry. it failed to be so, on the evidence that we have before us. i commend the report and the work of the temporary committee.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the muscat report applauds the consolidation and merger and acquisition activity that has been taking place in pursuit of these elusive economies of scale and scope. however, i am not aware of any evidence that consumers are more satisfied, that risks have been reduced or that the cost of capital has been reduced. on the contrary, the main effects of the financial services action plan to date seem to be that financial services at all levels – retail banking, stockbroking, investment banking – are all being rather seriously hampered by onerous and largely unnecessary reporting requirements. however, the issue i want to highlight – and which the report acknowledges – is crisis management, or, to put it more bluntly, who bails out. sooner or later some large multinational bank is going to get into difficulties, not necessarily through bad management, but simply because banks, like any other business, can go bust. banking, like any other business, is risky. there will be calls for bail-outs and guarantees to forestall contagion and to prevent the breakdown of the payment system. at that point, cooperation between the national authorities becomes non-cooperation, as each national authority strives to limit its own financial liability. nobody has thought this through. the report mentions the lender of last resort without telling us what it is or how it is going to work. so, instead of the blind pursuit of the single market in financial services, i believe it would be prudent not to encourage any more consolidation or cross-border merger activity for the present, until such time as the european union has a single fiscal authority to take the potentially large financial responsibility when things go wrong. fortunately, i think that time is very far in the future.
mr president, i too would like to explore the transatlantic mergers of the stock exchanges. we have seen on the front page of the financial times several times and heard from the head of the new york stock exchange that it is possible the us sarbanes-oxley corporate governance rules could apply to the merged exchange, with jurisdiction in us courts. of course not everybody agrees with that analysis. indeed, at the new york stock exchange’s second annual securities conference a couple of weeks ago, commissioner annette nazareth of the us securities and exchange commission said that the merger seemed to call for a common technology strategy but not a common exchange platform. so there will be a common holding company under us jurisdiction, but euronext would not register as a us exchange and would not offer its products on the us market. on that basis, sarbanes-oxley, in her opinion, would not apply to euronext. however, it would seem to me that neither would the benefits of a merged market, at least from the euronext side. in fact she said a mere affiliation with a us exchange does not subject a non-us exchange to us law. however, with all the excitement and interest in cross-atlantic acquisitions, it seems likely that perhaps something more momentous than a mere affiliation was afoot, at least in the minds of some. is it possible that some kind of asymmetric process, with the us base parts registering in europe but not vice versa, may occur? what would be the consequences for the european market? commissioner nazareth was very careful with her words in referring to the technology platform. is it in fact practical for there to be separate it platforms in the long term? i doubt it. there would be a desire to integrate and at that stage it would seem sarbanes-oxley would surely come into play, which was why she was so careful with her words. therefore, unless steps are taken to reach an international standard sooner rather than later, there could well be problems ahead. i would say there is a role for the bureaucrats here as well as the shareholders. in europe we have experience of having to balance different legal traditions and practices and that is one reason we should be taking the lead in the future of regulation.
mr president, i only have two points. the first is: is there anything in the wording of paragraphs 9 and 26 that in any way gives comfort to the berlin savings banks and the german savings banks system that they will be in any way stultified for the future? i ask that question of mr mccreevy. the second is whether we really think that yet another committee of wise men – asked for in the last paragraph – is necessary to look at this.
member of the commission. mr president, a range of issues has been brought up this evening. i believe i have covered most of them in my introductory remarks, but let me stress a few points. a lot of effort has gone into creating a harmonised legal framework for the eu’s financial markets. indeed, a lot of work is still being done on that. the framework is aimed at creating a level playing field, promoting deeper and more liquid markets and ensuring that consumers’ and investors’ interests are safeguarded. within that framework, we should allow the market to play its role. regulators should steer away from intervening in decisions taken by market players. the fact that european companies are coveted by operators from other countries is a sign of the confidence they have in us and in our regulatory model. what we need are strong financial institutions that can stand their own in the global economy. we need state-of-the-art exchanges, and competition policy ensures that undue concentration and abuses of dominant positions are avoided. but beyond that, i believe that we should allow the market to play its role. mrs van den burg raised a number of questions. she said that in her opinion it was not just a decision for the shareholders – referring to stock exchanges. well, i believe it is. i do not agree with her. i agree with her that users of exchanges have an interest, but i have not noted any degree of consensus between them as to what they consider to be the best and most desirable combination of exchanges. she also raised the question of the consequences of the possible mergers. it is too early to tell, but i made it clear that consolidation of exchanges should not lead to what i call ‘regulatory spill-over’. that issue has been referred to by other speakers too, such as mr klinz and others. as i said in my opening remarks, in reply to mrs berès’ question on behalf of the committee, there are two separate issues. it is a matter, in my view, for the stakeholders and shareholders to decide what they want to do with their stock exchanges. that is a matter entirely for them. the market should decide that. on the other hand, the question of our regulation is of great interest to us. we want to ensure that european regulators regulate european exchanges, and as i understand it, the proposal put to the new york stock exchange and euronext will ensure a system where that will be allowed. i agree that it will be important to ensure that this remains the situation into the future – not just this year or next year, but four or five years hence – and that whatever procedures are put in place, they have to be followed through. as i said in m opening remarks, yes, we are taking an interest in that and will be involved in it. mrs van den burg asked if i had read mr seifert’s book. i have not, but i have read various comments about it. i met mr seifert early on in my time as european commissioner, just after he launched the tentative takeover by frankfurt of the london stock exchange. i have read what he said in his book. whereas the book is interesting, it is just one perspective on the subject. i should like to say to members of this house and others outside, who always seem to be concerned about outside influences contaminating the european experience, that i believe that some of the proposals on the table at present suggest to me that market players worldwide seem to want to be involved in the european experience and see it somewhat in the other way. evidence seems to suggest that a lot of business is now done in europe that used to be done on the other side of the atlantic. there is a reason for that. some people want to get involved in the european way. we should not always be so defensive. mr hökmark and others referred to the regulatory matter. i would agree with what they say. we should let european rules and regulations apply to european companies. that is what our interest is going to be. the question of whether there should be takeovers or mergers of stock exchanges in different parts of the world is entirely a matter for the market players and one about which i am entirely agnostic.
mr president, i do not think my question on the consolidation of the banking sector and whether there was anything in the muscat report that could give comfort to the stultifying of the savings bank structure in germany was answered.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking members for their comments and observations. we had the opportunity to cover some of the ground two weeks ago when i met the committee on legal affairs to discuss the annual policy strategy. let me repeat that i welcome the report as parliament’s contribution to setting priorities and developing a strategic perspective for further action. as i said, we shall shortly be publicising how we will carry forward the priorities identified. some issues were raised and i note in particular the difference of opinion on a number of areas, for example as regards ‘one share, one vote’. i am very conscious of the debate that took place on this matter before i became a commissioner, and mr lehne’s advice that we should await the publication of the study is probably best. looking back over what has been said here and the great debate that has taken place previously on this issue, i think this has emphasised that throughout europe there are different cultures and a different ethos regarding both company law and corporate governance. that is a fact that we should all bear in mind, as i will certainly do in whatever i recommend in this particular area. i think that was also brought home by what other speakers said, such as mrs berès, who spoke of moving towards a certain degree of european harmonisation in some of these areas. it would be very difficult to harmonise company law measures in the european union because of the different cultures and traditions and the different ways that have developed in many of the member states. the situation is not the same in every member state, and i shall certainly be taking that into account in whatever proposals i bring forward and in whatever i decide is the best and most effective way to do things on a europe-wide basis. it is important to remember the different areas of conflict that we have had in the past and i certainly will take them into account too in whatever recommendations i bring forward.
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to begin by saying that i warmly welcome the commission’s communication on reducing the climate impact of aviation and that my report strongly supports the commission’s position that a comprehensive package of measures is needed to address the full impact of aviation on the climate. i should also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the other political groups for their good work and collaboration. the starting point for my report is that while aviation has brought a great many benefits to society, its current growth rate is completely unsustainable. between 1990 and 2003, the eu’s international aviation emissions increased by 73%, corresponding to an annual growth of over 4%. at this rate the increased emissions from aviation will neutralise more than a quarter of the reductions required by the eu’s kyoto target by 2012. moreover, crucially, aviation’s total impact on the climate is estimated to be two to four times the co2 impact, even without considering the potential effects of cirrus cloud enhancement. of course, the industry’s efforts to reduce its emissions are welcome. however, as eurocontrol predicts, eu air traffic movements are set to more than double by 2020 compared to 2003. it is clear that rates of technological improvements – which historically run at about 1-2% per year – will be insufficient to offset this enormous growth. it is clear then that action is urgently needed. international aviation is not subject to kyoto or other commitments. article 2(2) of the kyoto protocol urges states to pursue reduction of greenhouse gases from this source through the international civil aviation organization, but there are currently no plans for a global solution here. that makes it vital that the eu shows leadership and exploits the advantages of laying down an example with early regional action. council conclusions of december 2005 reaffirm this, calling for ‘specific action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from aviation if no such action is agreed within the icao by 2002’. i therefore welcome the communication’s recognition that we need this comprehensive package of measures, including regulatory, economic, technological and operational instruments. in particular, its plan to pursue the introduction of kerosene taxes is very important, given the existing imbalance between the treatment of aviation and other modes of transport. this should begin right away with a tax on all domestic and intra-eu flights – with the possibility of exemption for all carriers on routes where non-eu carriers operate. the ongoing renegotiations of air service agreements must continue so that third-country carriers can gradually be taxed on an equal basis with eu carriers. ending the vat exemption would further level the playing field, and bring fiscal as well as environmental benefits. colleagues will see that i have brought back an amendment to seek to achieve this. improvements in air traffic management could reduce average fuel burn by between 8% and 18%, with resultant decreases in all engine emissions. all of these measures are necessary, but the main focus of the commission’s proposals and therefore of my report is on emissions trading. i agree that it has the potential to play a role, but only provided any scheme is properly designed. first, it is clear that other policy instruments must be introduced alongside an emissions trading system to address the full climatic impact. instruments directly linked to the impact in question, such as a nox charge, would be most likely to induce the most efficient behaviour, although multipliers on co2 emissions are an interim alternative. this is crucial, because if there is not a parallel emissions charge or multiplier formula to cover aviation’s non-co2 impacts, the effect of buying the right to emit a tonne of co2 from another sector with much lower non-co2 impacts would actually be a net disbenefit to the environment. second, and crucially, a separate closed system for aviation is crucial at the very least as a pilot scheme because, apart from the administrative difficulties of including aviation in the eu’s general ets, many sectors already in that scheme are concerned about the possible effect of aviation’s inclusion on carbon prices, noting that as a sheltered sector, aviation will be able tolerate higher prices than many others. there is a very real risk that excessive pressure on vulnerable, energy-intensive industries could lead to a loosening of the overall cap. it would also be impractical for aviation to join the general ets before 2012. i do not think we can afford to wait another six years before we act, so good use could be made of the period 2008-2012 by running at least a pilot scheme. any arrangement by which aviation was ultimately incorporated into a wider ets would also need a cap on the number of emission rights the aviation sector could buy from the market to ensure that aviation itself begins to make some of these cuts. finally, if colleagues are in any doubt about the importance of a separate scheme, they should consider the words of a chief economist of british airways, who admitted last week that if airlines joined the existing emissions trading system their emissions would simply continue to grow at an alarming rate: they would simply buy up the right to emit as ever, their own emissions would not go down, and we would still see aviation having a massive accountability for the climate crisis. therefore, i urge colleagues to vote for this report, which will send a very clear signal to the commission and to the council that parliament is looking for ambitious but realistic proposals in this field. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we like to proclaim the growth of cheap air travel as a european success story. it is thanks to the breaking of national monopolies that there are now such unparalleled opportunities, mainly for the middle class, to enjoy holidays abroad. my own assistant just popped over to stockholm this weekend for an engagement party – not even a wedding, just an engagement party. we all enjoy this, but i think we have to remember that the poorest in society, let alone the poorest across the world, are denied these opportunities. whatever the price of the air fare, they cannot afford the holidays at the other end; but for those of us in a privileged position it is fantastic. the trouble is the predicted growth is so great as to wipe out the gains being made in reducing carbon dioxide in other sectors. a big airline operator in the uk told me they expect a 60% increase in the use of their planes over the next six years alone. that is a fantastic and terrible rate of growth. what the lobbying letters from the aviation industry are really saying, putting forward every excuse in the world, is this: ‘just don’t touch us, we are somehow special. our growth and our profits must be protected. do not take measures against us. the future of the world can go to hell, frankly, just so long as we are protected’. they want to be included in the commission’s emission trading scheme, and you may ask why. it is because they know it is not going to be consequential on their profits. the socialists are now saying yes, we are backing the capitalists in this. i think they should look at this again. the point is that the aviation industry says a closed scheme would be a tax. yes, in effect it would be a tax, but it would be a flexible tax rewarding those who take measures to try to introduce the best technology and to make maximum use of their planes. technological development is what we really need to promote. our message to the airline industry should be this: expand as you like, but find ways of doing it without increasing co2 emissions. we do not want to stop air travel, we simply want to ensure that its growth is not at the expense of our children and our future.
mr president, when it comes to the environment, aviation always seems to me to be the easiest target to blame for emissions. however, there is sufficient evidence in the public domain that appears to contradict what is called for as a solution in this report. as mrs doyle mentioned, the uk house of lords recently finalised a report on the effects of aviation on climate change. as she said, it states that the effect would be insignificant and likely to remain so for 30 years. commissioner, mrs lucas, i have a copy of that report with me tonight. i would very much welcome your views on its contents. similarly, as mrs doyle mentioned, figures published by iata show that over the last 40 years, through technological development, aircraft are 70% more fuel efficient. i have no doubt that such technological advances will continue to improve the situation. we can already see that in the new generation of aircraft: the airbus 380 and the boeing 787. given those two factors i suspect that the report’s author is more guilty of wishful thinking than scientific fact. one of my main concerns when addressing the topic is that europe tries to act alone, making decisions which could potentially place eu airlines at a competitive disadvantage. there are international organisations – one of which is the international civil aviation organization – that regulate the industry at a global level. i believe any action that is necessary should be taken at that level. in my view what is needed is incontrovertible scientific evidence, not speculation. that is why i support a full impact assessment being carried out before any proposals are brought forward. we must be careful in the messages that we send out, not only to the aviation industry, which contributes greatly to all our countries’ economies, but also to our citizens, who i believe have the right to continue to enjoy affordable air travel, whether on business or for pleasure.
(the speaker spoke irish) i welcome the fava report and the olbrycht report and thank all the rapporteurs. i particularly welcome the efforts to strengthen the social and environmental aspects of the regulations. in dealing with these funds, we have generally fought hard to ensure that the role of ngos is strengthened and that greater account is taken of the environment and to stress the importance of access for those with disabilities. in welcoming the report by mr olbrycht on cross-border grouping of territorial cooperation, i want to stress that this will be of tremendous benefit to border regions and to divided countries such as my own. structural funding should be community-based and community-driven, with all sections of the community fully involved in the process. in my own constituency, we can learn a lot from how other countries empower local communities and local democratic structures. i look forward to monitoring the progress of the new cross-border groupings. in ireland, they will be particularly important in border counties and in the north-west region, which have experienced deprivation, under-investment and unemployment.
mr president, the last time i saw a printed copy of the budget for the structural and cohesion funds for the period 2007-2013 it stood at eur 336 billion, with a precise allocation budgeted for each of the 25 member states plus the next two in the queue, bulgaria and romania. looking at it from britain’s point of view, it did not make good reading, so i put the following question to the committee on regional development. i have carefully studied the budget for 2007-2013, totalling eur 336 billion, which i call plan a, and i see that eur 139 billion of the total is being allocated to eight of the latest new members and another eur 22 billion to bulgaria and romania, with a meagre eur 12 billion allocated to britain during that period. if britain should decide to withdraw from the eu and thus cancel its contribution, do you have a plan b? there was of course a deathly hush, but such a situation is far from impossible. when the british public finally realises where all its money is going and when the health service in particular is so short of funding, a public call for withdrawal is quite likely.
mr president, today represents the end of a good piece of work by this parliament, a good piece of work by the commission and a rather less good piece of work by the council, in particular a number of member states within it – sadly, my own among them. i assure colleagues that i will not start apologising for the short-sighted mean-spiritedness of the united kingdom government, because i have only a minute of speaking time. this is not the package we wanted, but there is more in it to like than dislike. the strengthening of the partnership principle continues to need defence. statistical effect is of crucial importance to regions across europe. accessibility for disabled people and crucially the abolition of double standards between so-called ‘old’ and ‘new’ member states are all to be welcomed. europe is not about coal and steel any more; it is not about agriculture and fisheries: it is about solidarity and cohesion, it is about where the eu adds value to regional development across the eu. this package takes us forward and my group will be supporting it.
the structural funds are essential for ensuring that the enhanced prosperity engendered by the single european market is spread move evenly and that less prosperous regions are helped to catch up. the creation of a market at european level implies a european responsibility to ensure that all regions benefit. my own constituency of yorkshire and humber has benefited immensely from the european structural funds. south yorkshire has had the highest level of targeting – ‘objective one’. much of the rest of the region has also benefited. we will be welcoming commissioner hübner to the region later this year to see some of the impressive projects that have been financed. although the accession of the new member states has meant a re-focusing of these funds, i am delighted that the new package agreed for the next seven years will continue to see a continuation of this funding for yorkshire and the humber at a substantial, albeit reduced, level.
rapporteur. – mr president, it is just a small amendment to get rid of an error that had crept into the text of recital g. we just want to substitute the word ‘undertaking’ for the word ‘regulator’, so that the recital will now read: ‘whereas the issues dealt with by the committee of inquiry have a general significance that goes beyond the particular concerns of the european citizens who are directly affected, in particular as regards the adequate functioning of the internal market for insurance products, the correct implementation of community law and the adequacy of redress mechanisms available to citizens, in particular in cross-border situations where the undertaking concerned is under home-country control’.
rapporteur. – mr president, i just want to insert the words ‘in the context of structural and cohesion policy’ into this amendment. the words should be on your voting lists. essentially we agree that isolated territories have problems, but we believe this would be better addressed through structural and cohesion policies, so i should like to move that oral amendment.
rapporteur. – mr president, i shall see whether i can do any better with this oral amendment. i wanted to get rid of the word ‘eventually’. at the moment the amendment would include the words ‘including eventually nox emissions’, but i would like to remove the word ‘eventually’. the gue/ngl group, which tabled the amendment, is content with that.
mr president, i just want to make it clear that this does not represent the views of the entire alde group. (applause)
in writing. given that in 2002 almost half of all portable batteries sold in the eu-15 member states were eventually incinerated or disposed of in landfills, this report is an important piece of environmental legislation. the main points raised in this report cover the most important measures of reducing the harmful effects of battery waste. the report requires member states to ensure that manufacturers design appliances in such a way that spent batteries and accumulators can be readily removed, and that appliances be accompanied by instructions containing consumer information. producers will now be required to finance any net costs arising from the collection, treatment and recycling of waste batteries and accumulators, regardless of when these were placed on the market. the capacity labelling of all portable and automotive batteries and accumulators will be introduced no later than 12 months after the date of transposition of the directive. i agree that the report should promote research to make batteries less environmentally harmful and to encourage the development of new recycling technologies and that a 50% recycling target should be set for non-hazardous batteries.
in writing. in the depths of darkest east anglia, are the good burghers crying out for a directive making it compulsory for batteries to be recycled? no. i suspect that most people haven’t even thought of it and even if they become aware of this latest over-zealous piece of eu legislation, they will place the dud batteries from their transistor radios in the dustbin. in the preamble to this directive it states: 'it is desirable to harmonise national measures concerning batteries and accumulators'. who decided it was ‘desirable’? it is certainly an odd expression to use in this context. a woman may be desirable but another dopey set of rules for harmonising the way we deal with batteries and accumulators – i think not. however, this legislation places the entire financial burden of introducing these new recycling and disposal facilities on the producer. surely, in a sane world, i.e. one without the eu, when someone buys a product, he becomes responsible for its safe disposal. the 'producer must pay for disposal principle' is a part of the eu mindset. stop dreaming up new ways to increase the cost of producing anything. businesses will not be able to afford to pay these extra costs.
in writing. over the last programming period and now within the enlarged union, there has been a sense of the growing importance of protecting the environment whilst ensuring economic growth, improving access for the disabled to publicly financed facilities ensuring equality of treatment and eliminating discrimination in all its forms. this report has paid particular attention to enabling a greater number of disadvantaged and underdeveloped regions to catch up with those which are more developed. the regional competitiveness and employment objective also remains a central element of regional policy and a high level of available resources will be concentrated on those priorities. parliament has cooperated in negotiations with both the presidency and the european commission and one of parliament's main achievements was obtaining a substantial increase in the financial resources dedicated to territorial cohesion, an important objective in the context of enlargement. parliament has not only been successful in the above-mentioned points, but its voice has also been heard in the areas of partnership. under the general regulation, greater involvement of civil society and ngos is desirable. the commission will make a statement on the abuse of structural funds by organised crime.
in writing. today we have had the debate on structural and cohesion funds and cross-border cooperation. as far as the latter is concerned we have had this experience in northern ireland for many years and it has worked. however, recently this has not occurred. icban – one of the longest established funding bodies has through its make-up become unbalanced. on the icban board there are twenty members, only three of whom are now from the unionist community. the body is no longer balanced and is now discriminating against the unionist community. it no longer has the support of unionists in the area. this body has responsibility to spend eur 25 million in the coming years. this is an unacceptable situation which must be brought to an end. if this discrimination continues then icban funds must be frozen until there is total fairness.
in writing. i supported amendments in the name of the verts/ale group which sought to adopt guidelines on fair competition, social standards and environmental protection for tramp vessel services. these amendments also called for special account to be taken of the specific situation of small and medium-sized ship owners. unfortunately these amendments were defeated. the resulting report overall goes against proposals by the commission aimed at breaking down cartels in maritime transport. therefore i voted against the final report because i believe that in many respects the commission’s original proposal was better suited to lowering maritime transport costs, without endangering the reliability of services.
in writing. even after the british rebate is taken into account the eu is scheduled to cost the uk £4 298 million in 2006. considering that the net cost has been of this order every year, it is staggering just how much of our national resources we have poured into the black hole of europe. and for what? think of the real infrastructural change this vast volume of money could have made if spent internally on the real needs of the uk since 1973. though there are now 25 member states, the uk this year will contribute one eighth (12.4%) of the total budget revenue of £83 billion required to fund the eu in 2006. little wonder the tide of euro-scepticism continues to rise. at a time of acute pressure on our health service and vital education sector, it is appalling that we are wasting so much taxpayers' money on a failing political union. with blair having agreed to surrender the british rebate by stages and as the real cost of enlargement builds, the situation will only get worse.
in writing. i abstained on the lamassoure report on own resources even though it included several good ideas for improving the present system. i could not agree with the rapporteur's view about the uk abatement. i remain convinced that this is justified under the present system and that wider reforms need to be undertaken before any further changes are made to the uk rebate.
in writing. the uk conservative delegation abstained on the final vote of this report. we endorse many of the proposals in the szejna report on developments in and prospects for company law, in particular, the need to apply better regulation principles, the necessity to take account of the needs of smes and the importance of developing best practice which respects the different traditions and systems of member states. we also support many of the detailed proposals for improving transparency and the rights of stakeholders. however, there are a number of proposals that we cannot support, as they would introduce additional eu regulations in areas where there would be no demonstrated benefits to the evolution of an effective internal market for financial services. we also endorse the benefits for companies of involving their employees in workplace decision-making, but reject the imposition of any ‘one size all’ statutory model of participation. we therefore voted against paragraph 3 and recital f.
mr president, i voted on the lucas report in support of measures to lessen the impact on climate change. it is vital that all industries play their part, including the aviation industry. however, we need to ensure that measures we propose are both sensible and practical. merely increasing taxes will not by itself reduce emissions. neither can the aviation industry trade emissions with itself: it needs to do so in cooperation with other industries. of course, air travel has increased over the years, as it is no longer restricted to just the middle classes and the rich. for example, in the uk alone, 30 million people – i.e. half the population – travel by air at least once a year. these people all welcomed the european initiatives that encouraged low-cost airlines and forced the major carriers to reduce their fares. thus the european public do not support the aim of some colleagues in the house to outlaw low-cost budget airlines or force them out of business. this same public, though, is concerned about climate change. they want a fair and sensible taxation system and measures that must be taken in cooperation between government and industry. all these measures must be considered in relation to the needs and wishes of these consumers in a way that ensures that environmental concern is at the very top of the agenda.
in writing. labour meps fully support action to combat the climate change impact of aviation. we support the principle of inclusion of aviation emissions in the emissions trading scheme (ets) and ask the commission to come forward with workable proposals. we abstained on some paragraphs in this report which were contradictory or whose implications have not been fully costed or worked out.
in writing. i will be voting for this report on reducing the climate change impact of aviation. aviation is one of the most rapidly growing sources of greenhouse gases. in terms of raising this important issue, i agree with the rapporteur almost entirely. nevertheless some of her proposals, for example the immediate introduction of kerosene tax on vat or all intra-eu flights or the establishment of a separate emissions trading scheme for aviation, have neither been costed nor impact-assessed. equally, the problems of peripherality in my own region of south-west england mean that special attention must be paid to the most isolated areas, such as, in my region, cornwall and the isles of scilly. in the case of gibraltar, a particular complex of geographical and political isolation has been caused by the attitude of the spanish authorities. therefore i look forward to the commission using this report as the basis for bringing forward costed and workable proposals for action.
in writing. british conservatives have voted in favour of this report because we recognise the impact aviation emissions have on climate change. they account for some 4% of carbon emissions in the eu and air traffic movements are set to double by 2020 compared to 2003. we are in favour of including aviation emissions in an emissions trading scheme, either by addition to the present scheme or possibly within a more limited scheme. this would allow the airlines to cooperate with the national and eu authorities to apply rules that meet their aims of achieving the highest possible environmental standards without unduly penalising eu travellers and, if they are operated on flights into and out of the eu, operators would pay no more than their non-eu competitors. any eu scheme would best be operated eventually as part of a global approach. we are not in favour of a kerosene tax or including air travel within the vat system. we do not want to damage the eu air transport industry and the public’s reasonable expectation of cheaper air travel. we look to the commission to learn from its early mistakes in the emissions trading system and to pilot an ets for the aviation industry.
in writing. air transport is currently the most widely used means of long-distance travel, with serious environmental impacts, particularly in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. i think charging fees for emissions and trading in emission allowances is an appropriate way of tackling this problem. i also welcome the inclusion in this proposal of internal flights and flights departing from or terminating in the eu, as well as the creation of a single european airspace, which would allow for savings on air routes. however, i think that the special case of the remote and outermost regions, which are remote and difficult to reach and are therefore heavily dependent on air transport, must be taken into account. i therefore support this report only in so far as the amendment has been adopted which provides for special attention to the outermost regions and the outlying regions, which could be greatly affected if new aviation taxes were applied uniformly throughout the european area.
in writing. i voted for the lucas report on the impact of aviation on climate change. i fully support action to combat the climate change impact of aviation. i also support the principle of the inclusion of aviation emissions in the emissions trading scheme and hope the commission will come forward with a workable proposal. i abstained on a number of paragraphs simply because i do not believe the impact of the proposals has yet been fully evaluated. for example, i abstained on the call for an end to vat exemption for air transport because it is not clear if this will help tackle climate change or merely hurt the less well-off traveller.
in writing. i fully support action to combat the climate change impact of aviation. i support the principle of inclusion of aviation emissions in the emissions trading scheme (ets) and support the call for the commission to come forward with workable proposals. i abstained on some paragraphs in this report which were contradictory or whose implications have not been fully worked out.
in writing. i agree with the general thrust of this report, but believe that there are still considerable problems with the result of today’s vote: firstly, that the impact of the suggestions is largely uncosted and has a disproportionate impact; secondly, that the emissions trading scheme should include air transport but that there should not be a separate scheme which runs by its side. this would undermine the current ets. some of this report contradicted the very workable proposals of the commission and as such made little sense.
in writing. i fully support action to combat the climate change impact of aviation emissions in the emissions trading scheme and ask the commission to come forward with workable proposals. i abstained on some paragraphs in this report that were contradictory or whose implications have not been fully costed or worked out.
mr president, may i start by thanking the commissioner for his wise and thoughtful comments in introducing this debate and, in particular, for putting the main emphasis on people, because that is central to the subject we are discussing. i should just like to highlight two of the important points that he made. one was about structural change. i totally agree that structural change is here to stay and indeed it will accelerate. so the issue is not how we stop it, but how we harness and manage it. the second important point to highlight is that the answer is not protectionism, either by countries trying to put up barriers or within companies trying to protect old jobs when the market has moved on. i agree with mrs ek that nowadays people might not have a job for life any more, but i think people still have a right to expect that they can have a life with a job. the question, therefore, is what can be done to help and what should not be done. i believe that, as meps, we should not have this kind of debate every time a major company closes or downsizes, so that we politicians can show that we care – even though of course we do – and can be ‘seen to be doing something’ in each individual case, highlighting named individual companies. i do not think regular debates on this basis are helpful. it should not be about us trying to grab headlines back home. what i think we can do, and should do more, is to make sure that we help set a regulatory climate in which entrepreneurship can flourish, so that more new jobs can be created and genuinely; as one door has to close, other doors can be encouraged to open. i also believe that the greatest form of job security any individual can have is in the skill set they can develop, and that is where our priorities should lie. we have to make sure that, when people talk about investment, companies recognise that their investment in people is the most important investment they can make. investment in people by countries is also the most important investment that countries can make. if we get that right, we will go a long way towards managing the challenge of change.
mr president, it is no coincidence that my colleague, mr bushill-matthews, and myself have asked to speak in this debate. we come from the west midlands region of the united kingdom, a region that has historically been very dependent on the car industry, which has been through many cycles of plant closures and change. the other day i went to speak at a school in coventry and i said to the children: ‘you know where that blockbuster video store and that supermarket are? in the 1980s i worked in a car factory there that employed 20 000 people’. there is nothing new about this. we are treating it as if it were new. investment will create jobs and deliver the solution to the problems that many colleagues on this side have talked about: investment in new cars, investment in new factories, investment in robots that will cut the cost of production, and investment in quality. i ask mr schulz where that investment is going to come from. it is going to come from profits. what the car industry is short of is not bleeding hearts; it needs more profits to invest in those new products. that is going on in the successful companies. another factory i worked in during my 30 years in the industry – the oxford plant of what was the british motor corporation – is now one of the most successful car plants in england, which produces the mini. you see them all over the place, you see them in america. bmw – the owners of that plant, a german company – is investing gbp 250 million to make a new car there and we thank bmw for that. it is going to create another thousand jobs. an engine that was made in brazil is now going to be made in birmingham, in my constituency. i say to my friends in portugal – and many of them will be speaking shortly about these issues: come and talk to those of us who have lived through that problem before. one of the saddest days of my life was when i went to the longbridge car plant to meet the receiver of that plant, which had gone bankrupt. i started work there in 1967 when it employed 25 000 people, and now i walked into an empty factory. that is the reality of industrial life. it has been there for a long time. the issue is how we deal with it. we need better employment, we need full employment, we need retraining, and we need to help people who are made redundant to get new employment. if something cannot be saved, we have the responses to it. we have been involved at longbridge, where 5000 people were made redundant. we are working at peugeot at the moment and in other areas. come and talk to us about the practical things that we are doing and stop complaining in this chamber about the problems. we have all been through them every day. let us not have another debate like this. let us think about a positive way forward.
this is quite an exciting question for some of us. this is not really an issue of dealing with monopolies, because we support the commission on this prime objective. the issue in this case is that i have a constituent who has disability problems; he watches television and wants to watch just one subscription channel. i put it to the commissioner that we might have something of a law of unintended consequences here. you have tried to do the right thing in dealing with a monopoly, bskyb, but in fact, with setanta, you have created a situation in which my constituents will have to pay two subscriptions to watch the same amount of football. is that something that the commission could investigate?
thank you very much, commissioner, on this auspicious evening for german – or possibly italian – football. can i ask if you are serious? trying to break up the tv monopoly over premiership football has been a complete dog’s breakfast. as a football fan, i still have absolutely no choice. i have to subscribe to bskyb and another channel if i want to follow my team. does the commission appreciate that buying a random collection of football matches is not what 90% of people want? they want to follow their team. why have you cut up the cake in the way you have? it should be cut up so that i can choose to watch my team’s matches, not get a couple of them and twenty matches i do not want to watch. will you look at this again?
i should like to correct you, madam president. you said that the question concerns the ‘problem’ of montenegro. i believe it is a challenge rather than a problem. i am delighted to hear the commissioner say that the commission is considering opening an office in podgorica. i welcome that initiative very much. does he feel that this would be helpful in promoting tourism in montenegro? i believe that the adriatic coastline there offers great opportunities. he spoke about possible membership of the european union. has he any idea of the timescale? what sort of period would he like to see before an application for eu membership came from montenegro?
commissioner, thank you for that full substantive answer, which i fully support. i wanted to draw your attention to the kidnapping of a member of parliament and minister, taiseer najeh awad al-mashhandani on saturday. sadly another minister, the deputy minister for electricity, mr raad al-hareth, was kidnapped this morning with 19 bodyguards. as i said in my question and as you have commented, many thousands of ordinary iraqis out of the sight of the media are kidnapped every day. kidnapping is a crime that leads also to child slavery, to human prostitution internationally, and to child soldiers, as well as to the miseries you have already commented on in iraq. i know that the united nations convention against transnational organized crime, which came into being in september 2003, brought out a manual which is being published this year. i believe that this action, which only talks about several hundred kidnappings a year, is simply inadequate in the united nations. can the commissioner call upon the european commission delegation to the united nations, on behalf of all of us, to make very strenuous representations to strengthen the fight by the united nations against this particularly heinous form of crime?
thank you, commissioner frattini. in the six weeks since i tabled this question much has happened, especially the frattini package of last week, if we can call it that. i sincerely congratulate you and the commission on that excellent package of four bold and ambitious papers. have you considered how we might reach out to citizens with a communication strategy to make sure that they understand the situation – not the arcane details, but that they understand, for instance, that member states have not implemented the anti-terrorism laws? pressure needs to be put on their governments to translate the rhetoric into action, to achieve progress on fighting crime and terrorism and upholding human rights.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, with the finnish presidency’s emphasis on productivity, accountability and transparency, ‘finlandia’ is music to liberal ears. the programme you have presented today, president-in-office, reflects both the strong reforming tendencies of your government and the egalitarian and innovative impulses of a nation which repeatedly tops the league tables for education, innovation and development. liberal values will be on the march with your presidency. i would like to refer to just a few areas which my group feels to be important. first, the market-driven programme. priorities like completing the internal market, particularly in services and the energy sector, are key goals for us in the months ahead, as are efforts to deliver a directive on the portability of supplementary pensions and promoting market openings for new technologies. the latter will pay more long-term dividends than any government-funded initiatives on research and development, and provide the growth and jobs and prosperity that our union desperately needs. as regards article 42 – justice and home affairs – your presidency is right to focus on areas where european union legislation adds value to citizens’ lives, but in the modern world a wanted man can be halfway across europe before the policeman has his boots on. it beggars belief that the law still has borders, when criminals do not. for too long, key initiatives on police and judicial cooperation have been stalled in the council, and even those decisions taken lack the democratic scrutiny that protects our human rights and civil liberties, as we have seen with the inadequacies of data protection legislation. president-in-office, the time has come to heed our call to apply the footbridge clause provided for in article 42 and to make policy in justice and home affairs democratically. the transparency initiative, which has found one of its key supporters in your presidency, is one way out of this anti-democratic cul-de-sac. liberals and democrats seek your assurance that safeguard clauses will be used sparingly or not at all. but true transparency requires that the transposition, implementation and enforcement of legislation be given much more attention than it has to date. three years ago, we demanded that member states draw up concordance tables showing how they transposed eu directives into national law. let citizens see for themselves which parts of the law come from brussels and which reflect the hobbyhorses of national governments. otherwise, poor implementation and gold-plating will continue to fuel the fire of brussels-bashers. yet, since your presidency started three days ago, i see changes are already afoot. the comitology decision, which gives parliament the right of recall, giving us equal powers to council to make sure the law is applied, is a very important step. with greater power comes greater responsibility and i hope that our house will bear that in mind when it meets today to discuss much-needed parliamentary reform. president-in-office, you have a big agenda: the agenda of dealing with asia and the asem summit; the agenda of dealing with russia. we wish you success in this and we ask you to think not just of engagement, but of promotion of european values, of human rights and democracy, so essential to the development of our world. we wish you success in finding a way forward to an agreement in the wto, so valuable to our economy and that of developing countries, and we wish you great success with enlargement, though we know that is also in the hands of another very competent finn, commissioner rehn, who is here with us today. in conclusion, you spoke about public fears of globalisation. these can best be overcome by developing a european consciousness. as lönnrot did for finland in the kalevala, we need to draw on aspects of our common history to create a common consciousness. i wish you the wisdom of väinämöinen. i hope that for the people’s lasting pleasure you compose mighty songs for europe’s children. kansalle ilon ikuisen, laulut suuret lapsillensa. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, listening to mr vanhanen’s speech i experienced that déjà vu moment – we have been here before, because it is the same speech with every incoming presidency. i started to ask myself, mr vanhanen, who do you really represent? are you here today giving us the express will of your own nation? well, i wonder, because the last comprehensive eurobarometer poll carried out in autumn 2005 showed that only 38% of your fellow countrymen think membership of the european union has been a good thing. therefore the message from them is pretty clear: they do not want more europe. and yet here you are today telling us that the medicine the rest of us need is that we must have more europe, we must have the constitution, we must press ahead. what you represent is the professional political class in europe, who of course are all in favour of the european union. my view is that it was an absolute democratic disgrace that, at the recent brussels summit, all 25 heads of state and government agreed to end the period of reflection and to begin to implement the constitution against the wishes that the dutch and french people expressed in their referendums last year. so public opinion does not matter a damn, does it? it is business as usual and you are going to press on with enlargement; you are going to press on with a common asylum policy despite the fact that your own countrymen and virtually nobody else wants it; and i heard you say you are going to press for ‘better regulation’. do not make me laugh! the fact is, this is already a bureaucratic, over-regulated model and there will not be any real economic growth until we deregulate and free up our businesses. if you were a democrat and not an eu nationalist, you would put a case for free and fair open referendums, so that the peoples of europe could express their will. i will not be holding my breath. (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, i should like to begin by wishing the prime minister well as he embarks on his work. his profile in the financial times this week said that he had built his own house and loves gardening. with someone so practical in his approach to life, i am sure we can also look forward to a very practical presidency. the new presidency wants to develop a transparent and effective union. the issues of transparency and openness are ones the british conservatives have been championing for many years. the opening of council meetings, despite the crass attempts by the new british foreign secretary to preserve secrecy, is a step in the right direction. we will watch carefully to see that the letter and spirit of openness is upheld in the coming months. i also welcome the presidency’s wish to scrutinise the effects of legislation and improve its clarity. however, we have long argued for proper assessments of whether some legislation is actually required at all. the initial presumption must always, in my view, be against legislating. proper impact assessments should also be undertaken before embarking on new laws and i hope the presidency will make progress on less legislation and less regulation being an essential part of the reform agenda that i would like to see europe develop. i welcome the support for a collegiate approach to the presidency. it certainly makes sense for two or three incoming presidencies to get together to agree priorities and to pursue plans based on a longer-term programme. six-monthly stop and start policies often do not work when we need long-term planning and reform. i hope the presidency will work closely with president barroso on the economic reform agenda. there is no room for complacency. the drive to make europe more competitive does not begin and end with summit conclusions. the need for reform is as urgent as ever and i hope the presidency will champion the kind of liberalising and reformist economic agenda that we have long urged. finally, can we please sort out the vexed question of the seat of this parliament once and for all?
mr president, president-in-office, as a representative of the european free alliance stateless nations, such as scotland, wales and catalonia, i note that finland, as well as leading the eu and celebrating a hundred years of restored independence, was the first nation in the world to grant full political rights to women. as more and more small countries such as catalonia, montenegro and my own, scotland, seek to reassert our right to independence, we look to finland and the other small member states of the eu as role models. i welcome your stated commitment to transparency and subsidiarity. however, if we are really to restore public credibility in the european union, as we both want, we must do more than simply retable the existing constitution text. eu credibility in scotland, for instance, will not improve if the disastrous common fisheries policy is further entrenched. this wasteful trek that we must make to strasbourg each month does not help. i also welcome the president-in-office’s stated intention to consult on the constitution, but we need to consult not only each other in the institutions but also the public and take note of what they say.
mr president, i welcome the finnish presidency, which i assume will be carried out with the usual finnish efficiency and professionalism. finland has a lot to teach us, particularly in relation to the importance of investment in high-quality education and also how to balance economic efficiency and social justice. i welcome the president-in-office’s speech, which boils down to three points. there are three priorities for the council at the moment: action, action and action. citizens do not love processes, they love outcomes, and we will be judged by our outcomes. on friday we, in the united kingdom, will mark the anniversary of the horrific events of 7 july 2005, when 52 of our citizens were blown up in a terrorist attack. i well remember the sympathy and solidarity that i received from my colleagues here in the european parliament at that time last year, and that which we showed to our spanish colleagues the year before at the time of the madrid bombings. our citizens expect europe to make them secure. we had another event on 21 july, which fortunately was unsuccessful. however, because of the european arrest warrant one of the suspects was brought back to the united kingdom from italy in a matter of weeks. that is precisely the sort of action our citizens want to see. we need to deliver on better security cooperation. we also need to deliver on better security as a whole. we still have great shortfalls in our crisis management capabilities. that is because member states say they will do something and then do not deliver. let us make delivery by member states our absolute priority. similarly, on migration policy, let us have a fair, effective policy that links development and migration policy, one that makes our borders much more secure. let us, on energy, recognise that we have a single market. let us follow through on that logic. let us drive forward the whole single market agenda, which is still too incomplete. i welcome your commitment to better regulation, president-in-office, but as you have heard today the biggest gain in better regulation will be to stop the european parliament wandering around europe, so that we can better focus on legislation.
mr president, i am reassured by the prime minister’s determination to focus on the balkans and advance their progress towards the eu. prime minister, i know this is a european not a finnish project, but you are particularly well placed with your former president, mr ahtisaari, involved in the status talks on kosovo and your former assistant, olli rehn, as the commissioner for enlargement. the eu has a heavy responsibility to get the balance right between encouragement, as in the case of visa facilitation which will be debated tonight, and pressure, for example on delivering war crime suspects to the hague – particularly as regards the challenge in kosovo. i am reassured by your energy in that direction. secondly, the eu is dysfunctional in the area of justice, home affairs and human rights. on the one hand, there are the delays and dilution of measures resulting from the national veto. almost five years after agreeing on an eu anti-terrorism law, some member states have still not implemented it. on the other hand, we talk a lot of rhetoric about human rights, we preach to third countries, but there are credible indications of complicity by many eu countries in illegal rendition and torture. we do not convict terrorists, but we are at best passive with regard to human rights breaches in the war on terror. this is a toxic mix and i ask you to look at the contrasts and contradictions in this area.
on behalf of the verts/ale group . – mr president, i welcome this overdue debate today because, frankly, the declaration of the presidency issued two days ago falls far short of the response that we should expect of the european union and risks undermining the eu’s credibility in the region. clearly that declaration is not balanced: it gives great emphasis to the kidnapping of the israeli soldier, which it condemns, but spends far fewer words on the completely disproportionate response of the israeli authorities, which it only ‘regrets’. i am sorry that the representative of the council has repeated that language and that lack of balance in her introduction this morning. it is not only that, contrary to both international law and humanitarian principle, the israeli government has destroyed electricity plants and water distribution networks: it has kidnapped and arrested 64 elected representatives. that follows the terrible massacre on the beach in gaza. if that had happened anywhere else in the world we could have expected immediate condemnation by the international community. it is quite extraordinary that the council has only finally spoken out now, and spoken in such muted terms. i believe it vital that we, the european parliament, speak out and that we condemn in the strongest possible terms the arrest of democratically elected palestinian representatives. (applause)at the same time we condemn the kidnapping of the captured israeli soldier and we call for his swift and safe release. but let us not forget, either, the 9 600 palestinian political prisoners, over half of whom are being detained without trial, nearly 400 of whom are under the age of 18. let us have some consistency. secondly, politics is about responding to changing events, and there has been a historic event in recent days that has been tragically overshadowed by the events in gaza. that event was the agreement of hamas and fatah over the so-called prisoners’ document. in recent weeks the international community has called upon hamas to change and now, as it gradually begins to do so, we should recognise that fact, give credit for that fact and alter our own political response accordingly. in agreeing that national conciliation document, hamas has demonstrated that it supports the formation of a government of national coalition, that it supports an independent palestinian state, within the 1967 borders, and that it is taking the first steps towards recognising israel. we should be clear that the eu must immediately reopen dialogue with the legitimately and democratically elected representatives. the council must reaffirm its conviction, as it has done, that the negotiated two-state solution is the only one that will bring peace and security, but that means that the eu itself must live up to its responsibilities. together with the quartet it must put forward concrete proposals about what it plans to do to help bring about that settled and peaceful resolution. (applause)
mr president, we have heard about corporal shalit and those responsible should release the poor kid now. we have heard a lot less about maria aman. she will never again use her arms or legs; she is just three years old and her spinal cord was destroyed by israeli shrapnel. that is what you get when you drop shells on a busy street in gaza. the israeli army killed more than 12 palestinian children last month, but what do they care? the israeli prime minister says that the lives of israelis are more important than those of palestinians. israel is diverting attention from the agreement between fatah and hamas that recognises the 1967 borders. what more does israel want? it will use any pretext to avoid going back to the roadmap. it has no intention of negotiating a two-state solution. but where is the challenge from europe? there is none; our double standards are just rank. we ignore israeli racism and stand by with scarcely a word of protest as israel imposes collective punishment on the people of gaza. our words about justice are never matched by our deeds. europe has an opportunity here to move the agenda forward by telling the world that we embrace the prisoners’ document and that we will deal with the palestinian government. but all the evidence is that the council and the commission will not have the courage to do that. we make the palestinians jump through hoops, but we let the israelis get away with bloody murder. (applause)
mr president, last week the whole parliament was treated to a very grand press release from mr adamos adamou, mep. apparently the whole world should know that he, as chairman of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council, ‘calls upon the international community to provide protection for civilian lives in gaza’. well how, precisely? what is he going to do – stand in the middle of the street with a tin hat on his head? fortunately, a google news search shows that there has been no response to the suggestion at all. all i can suggest now – and there have been some very strong speeches made here – is that we take a check on reality. the tragic truth is this: if hamas continues to bomb, to kill, to maim and now to kidnap, then israel will respond. those who are burying their heads in the sand had better recognise that, or more tragedy will ensue.
mr president, the escalation of tension in the palestinian territory was provoked by the hamas-led kidnapping of corporal shalit with unrealistic demands for the release of palestinian prisoners. coming on the back of the cold-blooded murder of a civilian settler and the continuing firing of qassam rockets from gaza on to israeli civilian areas, prime minister olmert had no choice but to launch the limited surgical intervention by the idf. i too now call for corporal shalit’s immediate release. personally, i oppose any funding of a hamas-led palestinian authority government unless it renounces violence, disarms and recognises the right of the state of israel to exist. regrettably, the joint hamas declaration with fatah of 27 june, allegedly implicitly recognising israel, reportedly remains an ambiguous document and hamas does not clearly renounce violence. in the past, millions of euros of our taxpayers’ money have been donated in aid to the palestinian authority with little to show for it in terms of securing a lasting peace as envisaged in oslo in 1993. instead, there has been widespread corruption. i personally, although accepting the democratic victory of hamas – after all, hitler was also elected democratically – continue to regard it as a banned terrorist organisation, as does the european union and the usa, and therefore would never countenance supporting any funds for it until it convincingly changes its charter and terrorist ideology. the recent passover suicide bombing in tel aviv was publicly supported by the hamas pa government, which is an outrage. nevertheless, the european union, through the quartet, must remain committed to lasting peace in the middle east with a two-state solution whereby a viable, democratic palestinian state can live in peace and security side by side with israel within internationally recognised borders. i join all parties in this house in urging that israel – the idf in particular – hamas and all the people involved in these ghastly events respect international law and avoid further bloodshed.
the situation in palestine is critical. all humane individuals want to see the israeli soldier who has been taken hostage released safe and well. however, his abduction should not be used by israel as an excuse for extreme action in gaza and the west bank. i urge israel to keep all its actions in line with international law. the humanitarian situation in the palestinian territories must be addressed urgently. electricity should immediately be restored to all homes, medical supplies provided and food shortages addressed. both parties should be encouraged to take measures to build mutual confidence and reduce tension. a clear statement from both sides that a negotiated two-state solution is the only viable future for the region would go a long way to improving the present situation.
good morning, colleagues and friends. are we all ready to vote? i mean, roughly... we should also thank germany for being a great host and providing a great team. (applause from the left)
mr president, on a point of order under rules 149 to 164, i rise to ask why it is parliament cannot be organised, via the presidency or its administration, to have votes at the proper time, on time, when required. votes should take precedence over everything else and should be at a fixed time, so that inconvenience is not caused to everyone by having votes at ridiculous times such as this. (applause)
thank you, sir robert. i did check. this morning’s debate was slightly prolonged because of the finnish prime minister’s speech, which lasted 45 minutes. you will recall that finnish has too many vowels for any serious language. that is what prolonged it. (mixed reactions) i should like to announce to colleagues that terry wynn will be retiring from the european parliament this week. i am sure that we would all like to thank him for his distinguished work, especially as chairman of the committee on budgets. (the house rose and accorded mr wynn a standing ovation)
the next item is the vote. (for results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
we are applying rule 153(2) of the rules of procedure, which reads: ‘in the event of a tied vote on the agenda as a whole (rule 132) or the minutes as a whole (rule 172), or on a text put to a split vote under rule 157, the text shall be deemed adopted’. thank you for your remarks.
the rapporteur could have indicated that he wanted the commission to reply, but that was not the case. therefore that was in order.
it gives me great pleasure to welcome emma bonino, the italian minister for european policies and international trade, to the house today. (loud applause)
in writing. good preparation is of vital importance in preventing or containing disasters. it is for that reason that i support the report aimed at making cross-border assistance as effective as possible. combating crime and protecting law and order falls essentially within the competence of the member states. this proposal is solely aimed at improving cooperation between the different member states in this area by establishing a uniform, transparent and effective framework for the exchange of information. it is primarily aimed at maintaining law and order and security and preventing and combating criminal offences during international events attended by large numbers of people from more than one member state. every year, before 31 january, the council is to produce a review of international assistance provided during the previous calendar year. the review will comprise an overview of the international events that have taken place, an overview of the assistance provided and received and an overview of the main difficulties observed by the member states and recommendations as to how such difficulties could be resolved. this will ensure that national police forces in the most effective way possible.
in writing. i will be voting for this report, but the whole fate of inland waterway vessels in the uk is currently under threat. the uk has a derogation from the energy products directive which allows the country's recreational boat owners to fill up their vessels with red diesel, taxed at 6.44 pence per litre. this derogation is due to expire on 31 december 2006, and in a communication from the commission to the council on 30 june 2006, the commission indicated it did not believe an extension to this derogation to be justified. the benefits of ending this derogation are unclear. as leisure boaters' red diesel usage makes up less than 0.05% of the country's diesel consumption, the environmental benefits are essentially negligible. there is no evidence to suggest that the uk derogation affects or skews the internal european market. loss of the derogation will put a hobby and an industry at great risk. a survey by the royal yachting association reveals that 54% of boaters 'would or may' be forced to give up boating due to the sudden price rise. the knock-on effects could seriously damage the 30 000 people employed in the boat industry, the 70 000 people whose jobs are supported by marine tourism and the gbp 700 million spent by boaters every year. the uk requires a final five-year extension to address these issues.
in writing. the lisbon agenda 2000 resolved to make europe the world’s most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy within ten years. however, the eu still continues to lag behind the us and japan. i welcome this report, which attempts to improve the eu’s performance in three main areas. firstly, through financing and encouraging the creation of new knowledge: this will be facilitated through promoting the spirit of entrepreneurship, providing lifelong learning and ict training and improving the image of scientific research as a rewarding career path. secondly, europe is failing to share its knowledge. human resources must be used in an efficient way and improving partnerships must remain at the forefront of european r&d policy-making. resources must now be focused upon ensuring that the brightest minds are provided with adequate cross-border capital and human resources. furthermore, organisations who continue to treat women as inferior workers should be named and shamed. thirdly, europe is failing to finance knowledge. it is essential that a large proportion of eu budget resources for financial instruments are aimed at enhancing sme finance and tackling market failures. europe must now recognise its faults so that it can fulfil the aims of the lisbon agenda.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr fava, for his excellent work and his cooperation with us. i would also like to thank mr coelho for his assiduous and steady chairmanship. the area of justice and human rights in the eu is not working effectively. on the one hand, some member states have not implemented eu anti-terrorism laws passed five years ago, so we are not equipped throughout the eu to investigate and prosecute terrorist offences. in some member states there is not even a definition of terrorism, so terrorists can escape conviction and imprisonment. mr fava recalled the london bombings, which we will sadly remember on friday; we also remember the madrid bombings. if the same thing happened in some of our national capitals, there would be no prospect of terrorists being convicted. i hope mr gawronski and his friends are knocking on the doors of those national capitals which have not implemented the framework decision on terrorism. at the same time it is apparent on the basis of credible indications that gross human rights abuses have taken place in the name of fighting terrorism – the so-called war on terror. the eu has allowed a situation to develop where we cannot prosecute terrorists, but we can persecute terrorist suspects and deprive them of their rights. what credibility does this give the eu at home or abroad, either for effectively combating terrorism or for upholding human rights? let us be clear: what we are saying in this report is that we have heard testimony and seen corroborating facts, such as flight logs, which attest to extraordinary renditions having taken place in europe, and it is highly implausible that governments or their agencies had no idea what was going on. we have not implied we are a court or we have the powers of an investigating police officer or prosecutor, but we have done enough in cooperation and in complementarity with dick marty in the council of europe, with national mps and judicial inquiries, to shift the burden of proof. once allegations are no longer speculative but are shown to be credible, as is the case, then under european and international human rights instruments member states have a positive obligation to investigate and to punish anyone responsible for human rights abuses. i hope that in private the presidency is saying something different to its 24 eu government colleagues than it is saying here. i hope it is saying this conspiracy of silence must stop. to say, as the minister did, that the treaties do not give the eu any powers is untrue. if that is the case, then why did governments unanimously insert the human rights clause into the eu treaty and a clause, article 7, which provides for sanctions for breach? it is true that we lack the monitoring mechanisms to connect the obligation to the powers and that needs to be filled in. it is pathetic that javier solana and gijs de vries are obliged to come to us and say, ‘we do not believe there have been any violations, but we do not have the competence to ask member states the relevant questions’. i am quite happy to accept mr gawronski’s amendment in this connection, since it shows up the ludicrous nature of the gap in competence. i am not reproaching them, but i am accusing the council and member states of being guilty of creating a lot of hot air and rhetoric about the eu as a beacon of human rights without delivering the results. if you want our citizens to relate to the eu, i give you a cause worth championing.
mr president, we have had 50 hours of hearings and nothing to show for it. i sent a copy of mr fava’s report to a former staffer of mine, sally mcnamara, who is now the international relations director for a major washington public policy institute, the american legislative exchange council. i should like to quote her comments to you. she uses a vernacular word to describe the report and then says: ‘if i came up with this sort of report for my boss – devoid of fact and with a hefty dose of moral posturing – i reckon i would get fired’. i hope that our rapporteur will take note of these comments. his report is entirely speculative and circumstantial. it seeks to present unsubstantiated allegations as fact. evidence of flights that may have been linked to the cia is not evidence of rendition, still less evidence of mistreatment. the committee started from an a priori belief that the usa and the cia are guilty, and merely sought with little success to substantiate its prejudices. it has not established evidence, it has merely provided a platform for anti-american bias. whether we like it or not, the war against terror is real and it is now. the us has taken a lead in this war. it has spent a huge amount of blood and treasure in the defence of western values. we in this house should show a little more gratitude and a little less criticism. i agree with mr piotrowski. there is no point in extending the remit of this committee.
mr president, one of the issues we are supposed to be looking at is whether the european union and our own member states are the good guys in this. this is a question that we need to ask. in terms of facts and the political consequences that we should be drawing from this, it is almost irrelevant whether there have been two or three renditions as we were told in the us by the us administration, or whether the facts unearthed so far reveal two or three renditions, or whether we have found more. we have discovered that member states, even if they want to know what is going on, do not necessarily have the right or the mechanisms to find out, let alone the political will. we have been told by two of our own senior people that they do not have the right to pursue such issues. we have been told that the law is inadequate in this new era of greater threat. however, we also need to question whether we are using the law we have effectively and fairly in accordance with international human rights obligations. the issue is not just about the method – whether it is abduction or immigration problems – but also the outcome. there is an absolute prohibition on torture under international human rights instruments. therefore, what do we make of the memoranda of understanding which are increasingly coming into play and have implications for other areas of eu policy? these are some of the areas we should be looking at politically. this is another reason why we need the committee to continue.
mr president, it was entirely predictable that whatever the findings of this report, it would call for increased powers to be taken by the european union and, indeed, we were not disappointed. it states that the rules of cooperation between national security services should be established at eu level, that effective parliamentary scrutiny of national intelligence services should be at european level and that the commission should immediately legislate to harmonise laws on the surveillance of non-commercial civil aviation. there never seems to be an ill wind that cannot blow the european union some good. the report and the minority opinion expressed agree that some illegal detentions and transportations may have taken place. however, it is unlikely that the real truth will ever be known. i have no time whatsoever for illegal detentions and transportations of citizens or of non-eu citizens. the existing legal means are draconian enough. in this morning’s daily telegraph, the leader of the uk’s liberal democrats, sir menzies campbell, said that britain’s extradition arrangements with the usa were a constitutional disgrace. surprisingly for a lawyer, he does not seem to know that very similar arrangements exist with the european union. britain’s extradition arrangements under the european arrest warrant and under the similar and non-reciprocal arrangement with the usa amount to little better than the judicial kidnap of british citizens.
mr president, the evidence of a sinister spider’s web of cia torture flights crisscrossing europe is overwhelming. i have every confidence in stating that the cia is directly responsible for the illegal seizure, removal, abduction and detention of people on the territory of member states. it is through criminal intention, implicit approval and gross negligence that such large-scale human rights abuse has been permitted to take place. either way, it is clear that security forces in some member states are working outside the reach of proper and effective governmental control and scrutiny. soon we will remember the victims of the london bombings. the uk response has been the adoption of shoot-to-kill policies on the basis of guidance from the security forces in the war on terror, which has seen an innocent man killed in my own country and another lucky to be alive. they, along with so many others, are also victims. their only crime was to be visibly different from the majority. governments have underlined the importance of leaving no stone unturned when justifying the intolerable suspension of civil liberties in the name of national security, rendering certain sections of our population subject to unrelenting, imbalanced scrutiny. this is where this house must step in for the good of all our citizens. now it is time to focus due scrutiny on the actions of our security forces, reining them back to the fold of governmental control so that we can guarantee community security for the whole of the european union, preserving the rule of law and our democratic institutions.
mr president, as the final speaker from the socialist group, i would like to commend not only my previous colleagues and the rapporteur, but also the balanced approach we heard from mr coelho and the interesting comments by the commissioner on greater transparency and reform of the intelligence services. it is for all those reasons that we must extend this report. people opposite have talked about circumstantial evidence. they must understand that we called on the testimony of 70 people and spent over 50 hours in this committee, not because we are anti-american — and i commend our rapporteur for never, ever, falling into that trap — but because we wanted to get to the truth. the previous speaker spoke about 7/7 and london. there are one or two members in this chamber who represent the area affected by that bombing. the people who have written to us are not anti-american; they want anti-terrorism to be strengthened because human rights are being strengthened. that is the approach of my socialist colleagues and of many members across this house. why should we continue? we should continue because of the testimony of people like maher arar, whom i listened to and believed. do i know that he is telling the final truth? no, i do not, because we are waiting for the member states and for those who have not spoken to finally speak. that is why we need to extend this report and to extend the time we have. why else do we need to extend the time? we are telling european citizens that we will talk about the minute legislative detail, but are we also telling them that, when they are concerned about transparency and human rights and allegations they know very little about, we as a parliament cannot deal with that? we have to tell them we can deal with the issue credibly. we see it happening in the council of europe, and they should also see it happening in their parliament. on our side of the house, we want to see the report extended, because we believe we have the right approach.
mr president, unlike mr moraes i was opposed from the very start to the temporary committee on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners, and it should stop right now in its tracks. it is an expensive exercise, duplicating senator marty’s efforts in the council of europe, and one driven by a political desire by the left and liberals to bash america, and the cia in particular, in their efforts to fight global terrorism. i believe that the fava report is heavy on allegations and accusations, but light on proof. in a hazardous project as widespread in the west as fighting terrorism, inevitably some mistakes and excesses may have occurred, but in my opinion there was no systematic us policy for extraordinary renditions to torture abductees in third countries. furthermore, there is no proof whatsoever of the existence of cia detention camps in romania or poland. simple renditions of illegal combatant terrorist suspects through eu territory are a proven fact, but not necessarily illegal under international law where torture is not involved. in any case, i agree with alan dershowitz, harvard professor of law, when he argues that there exists a vast black hole in international law as regards combating terrorism, with categorisation of detainees anachronistic and the rules governing how such detainees are treated currently dangerously blurred. i believe that he is correct in arguing that many of us tend to stick with comfortable old ways, rather than addressing the difficult adjustments to the law that we may need to make vis-à-vis the balance we have to strike between human rights and the security of our public. furthermore, a recent visit to guantánamo by mep colleagues from this house vindicated my long-held view that immediate, as opposed to long-term, closure of guantánamo is not desirable, as many of those held there are extremely dangerous threats to our eu member states’ national security and it is not possible to deport these individuals, as many might face execution or torture if returned to their home countries like saudi arabia or egypt, where they are well known and wanted as known terrorists.
i thank the president-in-office of the council for that reply. in the six weeks since i tabled the question, things have moved on a lot. i will not claim post hoc ergo propter hoc. we had the whole package of proposals last week from the commission. i am delighted that the finnish presidency is going to give them great emphasis, but will the presidency give as much emphasis to the commission proposal on evaluation and monitoring as to the one on transforming the ineffective and undemocratic decision-making? will it impress on those member states that have not implemented the framework decision on terrorism that it is scandalous that, five years after 11 september 2001, two years after 11 march 2004 and, on friday, one year after 7 july 2005, some eu countries still have no provision in their laws to define and criminalise terrorist offences?
i would like to say what a pleasure it is to have the opportunity to put a question to the council in the new presidency and offer my warmest congratulations and support – i am sure along with all our colleagues – to the finnish presidency, which we know will be a very happy and successful one for the european union. i thank the president-in-office for that comprehensive and very helpful reply. i am particularly grateful for the comment that cooperation has been somewhat sporadic and informal in the past and that perhaps there might be a way of strengthening cooperation in connection with this ever-growing crime. i wonder if i might draw the president-in-office’s attention, however, to the recent april 2006 report by the united nations office on drugs and crime, unodc, on trafficking in persons and global patterns in trafficking in persons. since hostage-taking and kidnappings are not confined to the failing states or states in complex emergencies, such as iran, they are the key link in the chain to organised crime trafficking and particularly therefore to international terrorism. with this in mind, i draw the president-in-office’s attention to the fact that of the top 11 incidents of reporting of origin countries of human trafficking ... (the president cut off the speaker)
president-in-office, thank you for your reply, which i welcome. however, we have a problem: under the rules of this house every member is allowed to ask only one priority written question per month. under the same rules, we can expect an answer within three weeks. the commission managed that, but very often the council answers take three months. the reason very often given to us is that it takes time to get the answer agreed by all the members of the council. in real terms, you are able to give answers off-the-cuff to supplementary oral questions. my plea to you is that we find a way of speeding up the process. perhaps there could be a deadline for getting the answers from the other council members so that you can then give us the answers within the timescale in our rules. if we can help you do that, it will be a great partnership and a great feather in the cap of the finnish presidency.
the presidency of the council may or may not be aware that our rules of procedure say in its annex on question time that, with the agreement of the council, we may divide question time with the council into questions to the presidency, questions to the high representative or questions to the president of the eurogroup. would the council presidency agree – if parliament were to make a request – to have, maybe once every three months, a specific question time with the high representative focused specifically on foreign policy issues?
rapporteur. – mr president, i suspect that there was a plot in this house in scheduling this debate right now, because it was expected that this would be the time at which england would have been playing against france. mr daul and i, having been involved in these negotiations, felt we were the victims of this plot. but, as we know, england did not qualify, so perhaps it matters somewhat less – at least for me. we have before us technically two reports for procedural reasons, but they concern a single package: the proposed revision of the 1999 council decision on comitology and the joint declarations which, because they constitute a sort of interinstitutional agreement, are subject to a separate report. they are globally a package and together they represent a huge step forward for parliament – a major transformation of the comitology system. my constituents back home in yorkshire would be asking me what comitology is. it is not exactly the subject they are talking about day in, day out in the pubs and clubs of yorkshire. every legislature has a system of delegating powers to the executive. in national parliaments that is typically legislation that confers on the government powers to adopt further measures: the statutory instrument in the uk, the arrêté royal in belgium, decrees in various other countries. the systems change slightly, but it is quite normal to confer powers on the executive, not least to deal with technical details and complex matters once the main legislation has laid down the general principles. what is unusual in our system in the european union is that, when we confer such powers on the commission, we oblige it to act in conjunction with a committee of national civil servants. in many cases those committees have the power to block the commission and refer the matter back to the council. we have always found that objectionable: firstly because only committees of national civil servants and not parliament have the right to scrutinise the commission and refer questions back, and secondly because matters are referred back only to one branch of the legislative authority – the council – even when the basic act has been adopted under codecision. we also found the system to be thoroughly untransparent and complex with the numerous committees that give rise to the name of comitology. only an expert could study it and understand it. over the years we have obtained small concessions. we now receive every document that is sent to a comitology committee. since 1999 we have had some power to object within a certain time limit if we think that a measure goes beyond the powers that have been delegated. however, up to now, our fundamental objections have been unanswered. with this agreement there is a transformation of the situation: henceforth parliament will be able to say no to any implementing measure of a quasi-legislative nature adopted through the comitology system, and if we say no the measure cannot be enacted. the commission will either have to put forward a new proposal or table new legislation under the codecision procedure. that is a huge step forward for parliament – and not just for parliament – in terms of the accountability and transparency of the whole union system. that is why this agreement is so important. nonetheless, there have been some issues with which we have been ill at ease and where we had to negotiate to ensure that our position was fully safeguarded. for instance, we have in this agreement a reference to the lamfalussy acquis. indeed, by mentioning it, as regards the commission, we are actually upgrading that acquis from a mere statement in parliament by the commission president and a letter from the relevant commissioner to the relevant committee chairman, to a declaration by the whole institution. so we have upgraded the relevant parts of the lamfalussy acquis. that is also important. we have gained satisfaction on time limits: it is an important step forward that three months can be extended to four, especially – as commissioner wallström pointed out – as the clock starts running once we get the text in all the languages. that will give us adequate time to consider these matters. there has also been this issue of sunset clauses. i think that with this agreement parliament will not normally need to use sunset clauses. we used them before, because when we delegated powers to the commission we lost those powers for ever. with very loose control over how they were exercised, it was quite normal that we wanted to use sunset clauses as a way of reasserting control if need be. however, with this agreement we can say no to any implementing measures we dislike, even every single one of them, if we are dealing with quasi-legislative measures. we therefore do not need to use sunset clauses. the agreement reflects that – in that we acknowledge that the principles of good legislation mean that powers should be delegated without a sunset clause, without a time limit. but the principle that the legislature should, if necessary, be able to set a sunset clause – that is a power we have under the treaty – is recognised to the extent that the agreement says very clearly ‘without prejudice to the rights of the legislative authority’. as is said, we do have the right, but i believe that we will not need to use it except perhaps in exceptional circumstances that we cannot foresee at present. we recognised that de bonne foi as part of the negotiations, because the other institutions felt very strongly about it, but also, in my opinion, because as a parliament we realised that we will not need to do so. with this agreement we should be more relaxed about delegating matters to the commission because we will have that control afterwards. we have the ludicrous situation in our union where we sometimes have two or three readings on subjects such as the width of tyres for tractors, which in any national context would have been delegated to the government to deal with – this is because we have been reluctant to delegate. with the assurance that we can control what we delegate, there is no reason for us not to delegate much more and more frequently. that is another reason for welcoming this agreement. that is why my group and our committee, the committee on constitutional affairs, rejected the amendments to which the commissioner referred. it is only a recital – parliament is not reaffirming the resolution to which it refers – but i do not see the need for a reference. my group – and i think other groups too – may be voting against this amendment if it is indeed confirmed by the group that tabled it. i will be listening to other speakers with interest in a minute. there is a remaining issue: the adaptation of existing legislation. commissioner wallström referred to the package of 25 measures that will be adapted urgently, with a proposal by the end of this year. beyond that the commission has undertaken to carry out a survey of all existing legislation to see what needs to be adapted and will make a proposal. but we have no undertaking from the council to act within any given timetable, so we as a parliament will have to watch that very carefully. we have a ceasefire. i do not want to break the ceasefire, but we will have to watch very carefully that the council looks at this seriously within the necessary timetable. so this may not be completely the end of the story, but nonetheless i think it is a huge breakthrough, a huge advance for parliament. i would like to finish in the way that commissioner wallström began, which is to thank all those involved. certainly my thanks are due to the commission. its position is completely different to the commission’s position of a few years ago and i think commissioner wallström can take much of the credit for that. the commission has moved to a position where it was very supportive of our position. i think our positions were virtually identical for most of these negotiations. i would like to thank the british and the austrian presidencies: the british presidency that initiated the resumption of the council’s consideration of this matter, the austrian presidency that took it forward so ably. of course i would like to thank my fellow negotiator, mr daul, the chairman of the conference of committee chairmen. we went through many meetings together over a six-month period. i am very glad that tonight i can report to this packed house – at least those members who are not watching the football! – that we have a very important result which i think is not just good for this parliament, but is actually good for our union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, my group is pleased to offer its strong support for this important reform, which is a further signal that parliament is making great progress with its constitutional development. i would like to add thanks to all the main contributors to the complex negotiations. the regulatory committee has proved to be the most troublesome aspect of comitology and way beyond the effective scrutiny of parliament. the present package has three consequences for parliament. first, it puts it on an equal footing with the council. second, it should encourage parliament to trust the commission more to exercise and make prudent use of the executive authority that properly belongs to it. parliament can surrender some of its preoccupations with minutiae, opening up opportunities for it to focus on politics rather than the technical aspects. finally, the change will force parliament to sharpen up and upgrade the way the committees sift and scrutinise the product of comitology. we need to be fully prepared to shoulder our greater responsibilities with skill and care.
mr president, i should like to speak briefly on the issue of integration. we know from a number of pieces of research and projects done under the equal programme – not least the strand on asylum-seekers – that the message coming through very clearly is that integration starts on day one for new arrivals and it starts the day before for host communities. we have a whole range of good practice there that we should be drawing on, so that this becomes a process that gives us as many wins as possible. that also means realising that for some parts of the world, migration is part and parcel of development policy. i think we all agree that people who want to migrate should do so as a matter of free choice. we know, however, that large numbers of illegal people are actually people who have overstayed their visas; they have not entered illegally. we also know that there are large numbers of people who are semi-compliant, because rules are not clear or are difficult to access. until we start looking at the development aspect of this issue, it will be like squeezing a balloon: if you apply pressure somewhere, you just get a different shape somewhere else. therefore, we need to look at this very seriously, and member states need to stop complaining and start cooperating on a common migration system. we also need to beware of the commodification of people. when i look at the policies of some member states that are now considering drawing unskilled workers from new member states and not using third-country nationals, i am not sure what message that sends out. indeed we know that for people from some of the poorest countries, access to work in the european union is crucially important to their country’s development, and the remittances that go back can be up to eight times the amount of aid that we are putting in. we know that people are pulled towards rich countries when inequality is most acute. i am interested in how the commission is going to approach the development aspect and trade policies, to ensure that our policies move in a coherent way instead of pulling against each other all the time.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, our country is out of the world cup, so we can stay here for as long as we wish! i congratulate the commissioner for taking the time to attempt to act on the commission communication of september 2005 and to give us real policies with which we can progress. of course the council has to be a willing partner too and we are hoping that the finnish presidency might repeat the discussions at the tampere council, which were extremely progressive. i hope we see evidence of that. the lambrinidis report is a progressive and positive addition to the new debate on integration in this house. it is positive for a series of reasons. the rapporteur does not just look at all the fashionable ideas on integration in the different parties; he tries to look at what works. this is too serious a subject now for us not to look at the models that actually work. he says we should share best practice, which we are not currently doing. he talks about implementation of the directives that will make integration work, such as the race equality directives. he talks about money, about the very little we spend on integration, given the disproportionate results, the disproportionate economic and social benefits we would get from spending on the kinds of projects the commissioner talked about, whether language or other integration projects. all these things are important, but ultimately we should stop thinking that integration is not for the european union. integration is for the european union; not just the sharing of best practice, looking at the best models of integration, but the political will of this house to provide local support for those people who believe that integration will benefit society, benefit the economy and ultimately create harmony in the eu. mr lambrinidis has produced a report that takes us one step forward. let us hope that further initiatives come from this house, that the commission remains strong and that the council will join us in this struggle.
mr president, any society needs an influx of fresh blood, but there is the question of the impact of newcomers on society. before the growth of the public services and infrastructure that we now demand, large numbers of immigrants were easily absorbed, but now they place an enormous strain on public services. in well-developed countries, massive immigration from undeveloped regions intensifies the problem. some unskilled workers find it difficult to get a job and become a burden on the welfare state. but we should not try to attract skilled people from undeveloped countries, because they are badly needed there to improve their own economies. once we saw vietnamese boat people fleeing oppressive regimes. now we see west africans taking to boats and hazarding the atlantic to seek a better life. that is due, at least in part, to the eu, as powerful fishing fleets armed with licenses granted by the votes of this house plunder their waters, reducing people already badly off to abject poverty. migration is mainly economic and the pressure to migrate decreases as the prosperity of undeveloped countries improves. we must help those economies, both as a duty and to reduce migration. third world countries do not need a handout. they need expert help to build their infrastructures and sources of employment. above all, they need to trade. if communities can sell their produce outside their own backyard, they make progress. unfortunately, for all its fine words, the eu stands in the way, consumed with protecting european producers. the eu’s high tariff barriers cruelly shut out the third world from trade highways.
since the next speaker is polish, i should report that this morning i heard that the united kingdom has 500 000 polish workers now. they are doing a marvellous job.
mr president, sustained immigration is a fact for many member states, and when managed, it has aided economic output, although it would be foolish to deny that, on occasions, problems of a social or other nature ensue. i should like to take the opportunity of this debate to condemn unreservedly a series of racist attacks that have occurred in my constituency of northern ireland. decent people do not want any part of that, and i deplore what has happened in regard to some recent incidents. i have three points to make in this debate. first, the control of immigration policy is, i believe, properly a national issue and should not become an eu competence; otherwise, national governments cannot exercise the controls necessary to their situation. second, it is imperative that immigrants integrate and do not become a debilitating state within a state. hence, in the united kingdom i support chancellor gordon brown’s calls for a willingness and for procedures to embrace britishness. my third and final point is that with three million illegal immigrants in the eu, this issue has to be robustly tackled, not least because of its association with the odious practice of human trafficking. it is not acceptable for some countries to engage in so-called regularisation of their illegal immigrants and thereby qualify them for free movement to other member states.
that concludes the debate. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12:00. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the commission statement on aids – time to deliver.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the commissioner is right to highlight the progress that is being made, but i think he will be the first to acknowledge that the challenge of aids is widening. we all know those figures that we quote in every debate, the 40 million people living with aids, the 20 million who have died from aids, the 12 million aids orphans, the 2.5 million children living with aids, but there are new aspects. there is the fact that around half of the people who now have aids and are dying of the disease are women. there is the problem of where aids is on the increase. india is now the country with the most cases of aids. it has overtaken south africa, it has two thirds of the cases in asia, and yet in india only 7% of the people who need the anti-retrovirals are receiving them. we see children missing out on the hiv drugs they should be receiving. only one in twenty hiv-positive children are receiving the treatment they need, and the global movement for children recently reported that four million children are desperately in need of cotrimoxazole, the antibiotic costing just three cents per child per day that could prevent life-threatening infections in children with hiv and those born to hiv-positive mothers. closer to home, on our doorstep, we see the figures in eastern europe and central asia, where the numbers infected have increased almost 20-fold in less than a decade, and between 2003 and 2005 the number killed by aids has almost doubled. so, commissioner, we join you in your resolution to do more. we want to see much more done in terms of prevention. we have seen in senegal and uganda how investment in prevention can really work and make a difference. we need to see that rolled out, particularly in africa and in asia. lastly, we need to see investment in research. with research into new drugs and vaccines and the delivery of drugs, the children i have referred to who are now living with and dying of aids can have hope for the future.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, i am in direct contact with a vietnamese ngo fighting the spread of hiv/aids. it has stressed to me the importance of full access to anti-retroviral drugs, not least because many more people come forward for voluntary testing when there is effective treatment available for those who test positive. however, i am also told that there are real practical problems with european commission funding. it is only very local, community-level projects that can manage to overcome stigma and discrimination and get people to talk about sex openly and that offer individual counselling and care. yet these local ngos, which deliver significant success in terms of changed attitudes towards aids, find that their applications for european funding are often turned down. would the commission be prepared to offer more support in the funding process and better feedback to ngo applicants?
i have received six motions for resolution see minutes to wind up the debate tabled under rule 103(2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, last night i was driven home by a ghanaian taxi driver. i believe he was one of the few working, because of the world cup excitement. i asked him whether he liked living in france. he said it was ok, but he missed ghana. here in france, three of his children were able to go to university, something that was impossible to imagine in ghana. i was in ghana last year. what the taxi driver said confirmed what i had seen there. i went to northern ghana to meet tomato and rice farmers. they were unable to make a living wage and therefore unable to send their children to school or to have any access to medical care. at the same time, on the markets in northern ghana, there was us-subsidised rice and eu-processed tomato products, cheaper than the local produce. on the same trip, we visited fair trade cocoa farmers in central ghana. they were certainly not rich people but they had a sustainable price, they had a long-term contract for their product. therefore they were able to access medical care, there was a school for their children, and the fair trade premium meant that there was investment in water in their local villages. i saw the same differences between fair trade farmers and non-fair trade farmers in the windward islands, on the banana farms. we want fair prices for farmers in all developing countries. we hope that the wto will deliver a more just system, but in the meantime we need fair trade, with a capital ‘f’ and a capital ‘t’. i am pleased to hear that the commission will support that. on the issue of other labels, yes, other ethical labels are being developed. some of them are very good, but we have to be careful here. we cannot have fair trade on the cheap. as the market gets bigger, there is a temptation for more and more players to want an ethical label, but they do not want to pay the real price. so we have to watch who we support and make sure the labels really are ethical. fair trade is about price and sustainability. it is about the millennium development goal of tackling poverty.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i wish to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, mr schmidt, on raising the standard and with it our ambitions. i am sure we shall all benefit greatly from following his recommendations. i also welcome the views as expressed by the commission. i am sure that our partnership approach will deliver much good. it is of particular importance, because today much of our food and drink comes from the developing world, where farmers and workers are finding it increasingly difficult to make a decent living. in our global marketplace, the use of internationally recognised labels or marks, which conscientious consumers can have confidence in, is a logical and significant contribution to economic and social improvements across the globe. through the use of clear labelling, individuals are beginning to realise that they are able to play their part in tackling the problem of international poverty. the simple decision to buy products with a fair trade mark can have a huge impact, guaranteeing that growers and workers benefit from fairer wages and better working conditions, and can make a crucial different to their ability to provide for the basic needs of their families. in the last five years, the united kingdom has proved to have the most dynamic fair trade structures of all the eu member states and is the fastest growing fair trade market in the world. a staggering 87% of the uk population would rather buy from companies that do something positive for the community. when asked which products fall into this category, 27% specifically noted fair trade products. this figure could and should be much higher and it is the duty of all responsible members of this house to raise awareness of this necessary project. in my own north-west constituency, we are determined to promote equality and sustainable development wherever possible. garstang in lancashire was the first town to achieve fair trade status in 2001. thirteen north-west towns, including industrial powerhouses such as manchester, lancaster and liverpool, have all followed. kendal was the first fair trade borough and now lancashire council has pledged to become the first fair trade county. as well as in the european parliament, fair trade products are available in many council buildings, tea and coffee served at meetings is fair trade and awareness days have been held to inform staff about the benefits of fair trade.
madam president, i would like to thank mr schmidt for his excellent report. fair trade is a success story. the value of fair trade products sold in the united kingdom doubled between 2002 and 2004 and fair trade brands of coffee and tea have become household names. it is estimated that three million fair trade hot drinks are consumed in the uk each day. the largest uk fair trade organisation, tradecraft, is based in gateshead in my constituency. i am proud of the momentum towards fair trade that now exists in the north east of england, with more and more places signing up as fair trade towns. however, although fair trade is growing in many places, it is much less developed in some member states than others. eu support for fair trade through consumer awareness and information campaigns can help fair trade grow across the whole of europe. a modest amount of promotion of fair trade would trigger a substantial growth in the market for fair trade goods and significant poverty reduction in producer countries.
madam president, i welcome the commitment shown by the commissioner to these issues and indeed for giving us the clear understanding that it goes beyond just enjoying oxfam chocolates. i would also like to say that, like linda mcavan, i have many experiences from developing countries, such as uganda, where last year i met a farmer who had a kilo of coffee beans to sell for 150 ugandan shillings. subsequently i paid 1000 ugandan shillings for one cup of coffee. this is the kind of injustice which the fair trade movement is dealing with. my own country, wales, has now voted to become a beacon of fair trade practice. this week our first minister announced proposals for wales to become a fair trade nation. we are now working to increase awareness of fair trade issues amongst the population in wales. that means working in colleges, schools, the voluntary sector, across business networks and elsewhere, and increasing awareness amongst our population. i believe that in 2007 wales will become a fair trade nation and our fair trade support will, as others have said, make an enormous difference to the lives of countless poor people and will mean that we will make our contribution to making poverty history.
in writing. needlestick injuries occur when the skin is accidentally punctured with a needle that is potentially contaminated with a patient's blood. contaminated needles can transmit more than 20 dangerous blood-borne pathogens, including hepatitis b, hepatitis c and hiv. the majority of these injuries are suffered by nurses and doctors, but other medical staff are also at significant risk, as are auxiliary staff, such as cleaners and laundry staff and other downstream workers. i welcome this report, which outlines the preventive steps that should be taken in health and veterinary care to protect workers from injuries caused by needles and other medical sharps. this includes written instructions at the workplace and training for all workers, especially those who perform cannulation. effective response and follow-up to accidents or incidents is also outlined in the report, including rapid post-exposure prophylaxis. furthermore, all workers who might come into contact with needles and other medical sharps are to be offered vaccination against hepatitis b.
in writing. as draftsman for the report from the international trade committee on this report on external actions for financial, economic and technical assistance to third countries recovering from crisis i was concerned that this stability instrument should provide genuine added value, delivering an effective, immediate and integrated response. although there were concerns initially about the legal base of this instrument, it was eventually agreed that it should be based dually on development cooperation and economic, financial and technical cooperation. i support development committee colleagues in their concerns that the inclusion of peace-support measures in this instrument should not bleed funds from the development budget. most importantly, the agreement between the council, the commission and parliament on this report reflects parliament’s initiative on a review clause, which will allow for modification and better reporting: an important consideration, since this instrument is new and far-reaching.
mr president, against my advice, parliament adopted the amendment tabled by mr radwan, on behalf of the ppe-de group, to my report on comitology. in its statement last night in the debate, the commission took the view that this amendment effectively undermines and sabotages the agreements that we have negotiated. this may, indeed, have been mr radwan’s intention – i do not know – but the amendment refers to a resolution adopted by parliament, which envisages the adoption of sunset clauses on the delegation of legislation that apply systematically to all legislation that we adopt in the financial services sector. however, i would urge the commission not to overreact. the amendment adopted – however much i deplore it – was only an amendment to a recital in which we refer to a past resolution having regard to it. we do not, as a parliament, reaffirm our endorsement of the resolution. this nuance should enable the commission to accept our text and to consider that the agreement we have negotiated remains valid.
in writing. in 1993, under a new codecision procedure, legislative powers were allocated to parliament and the council on an (almost) equal footing. parliament took the view that codecision acts, in which council and parliament can jointly delegate implementing measures, implied that they should both be involved in defining the procedures for exercising delegated powers and that they should have equal rights regarding retrieval or call back. the council, however, argued that article 202 of the ec treaty remained unchanged, providing for the council (alone) to define the system for implementing powers. the key step forward for parliament which is possible now as an outcome of negotiations with the council and the commission, is that parliament will be able to block the adoption of ‘quasi-legislative’ implementing measures to which it objects. if it does so, the commission can make a new proposal or table draft legislation. i welcome this report´, as it expands the powers of the european parliament and enables it be an ever more effective and democratic institution.
in writing. i voted against extending the mandate of mr fava’s committee to continue investigating so-called ‘extraordinary rendition’ because to date it has produced no substantiated evidence such as would justify its continuance. rather, it is being used as a vehicle for rabid anti-americanism, willing to trade in selective tittle-tattle while operating on a presumption of guilt by the cia.
in writing. ukip have voted in favour of amendment 13, because it emphasises that the eu high commissioner and eu high representative have no powers to request information in this matter from member states. ukip rejects the authority and opposes the creation of both these positions and therefore welcomes the acknowledgment of a limitation to their powers.
in writing. i voted for this report as i consider it is an important practical step forward in the way in which the european parliament is now willing to confront serious abuses of human rights within its borders and its relationship with the usa. we cannot simply accept assurances from friendly governments concerning the prohibition on torture and cruel and degrading treatment: we have a responsibility to ensure that we and our allies act within international law. in political terms, we now need to examine whether the eu and its member states have the necessary instruments to pursue the truth about what is happening on our territory and in our name and the appropriate safeguards to protect our citizens and residents. i welcome the parliamentary majority for the continuation of the work of this temporary committee.
in writing. the eplp will be voting for the fava report because we believe that it continues to be important for the european parliament to investigate the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the alleged transportation and illegal detention of prisoners. the interim report is important for two reasons. firstly, unlike members of the council of europe, meps are directly elected and answerable to our constituents. we investigate all manner of issues on behalf of them and we cannot ignore calls that member states may have breached their treaty obligations under article 6 of the eu treaty, which outlines the basic principles of democracy, human rights and respect of law. the european parliament is the only body that can impose sanctions on member states that breach these treaty obligations. parliament's report is also important as, unlike the council of europe, the committee was able to call witnesses to testify before it. the committee heard strong personal testimonies, which provided compelling evidence in the report.
in writing. my british conservative colleagues and i are unable to support the fava report because we believe that the report is heavy on allegations and short on new evidence or proof. we were against this tdip committee from the beginning and feel that it is a waste of money which duplicates senator marty's efforts in the council of europe. furthermore, there is no proof whatsoever of the existence of cia detention camps in either romania or poland, neither do i believe that there has been a systematic us policy for extraordinary renditions to torture abductees in third countries.
in writing. ukip (the uk delegation in the ind/dem group) voted in favour of amendment 13 because it emphasises that the eu’s high commissioner and high representative have no powers to request, from member-state governments, information of the kind referred to. ukip opposed the creation, and does not recognise the authority, of these posts. we welcome amendment 13, therefore, insofar as it acknowledges some limitation of their powers.
in writing. my british conservative colleagues and i welcome the broad approach of the lambrinidis report and support the many positive and balanced elements of this report to promote the integration of immigrants into european society. however, we should like to restate that great attention needs to be paid to ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is completely respected in each and every aspect of policy in this important area. in addition, we believe that asylum policy must remain the competence of national governments and do not believe in a pan-european approach as stated in recital l. for these reasons, we have decided to abstain on this report.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues welcome the broad approach of the carlotti report and support the many positive and balanced elements of this report. however, we are against the idea of integrating the migration issue into eu external policies, as stated in paragraph six. we do not believe that a common strategy is the best way to deal with the issue. we believe that policy in this area must remain within the competence of national governments and do not believe in a pan-european approach to immigration policy.
in writing. i welcome this balanced report which explores the ways in which the growing popularity and number of fair trade products in the eu could contribute to our attempts to end social injustice and raise the standards of production in developing countries. i have support for a number of conclusions for this report, namely that there should be adequate consumer information, a fair producer price and transparency throughout the supply chain. i sought to amend the report to make sure that the conditions of production play a full part in the notion of fair trade through the need to respect the eight core ilo conventions. i also submitted an amendment urging the commission to liaise with the international fair trade movement in supporting clear and widely-applicable criteria against which consumer assurance schemes can be assessed, so as to support consumer confidence in such schemes. given the existence of several national schemes recognised by the consumer i would not at present support an eu-wide fair trade mark. however, i think this option should be considered in the event that a proliferation of standards and marks leads to confusion among consumers.
mr president, i think most of our speakers would like mr mandelson to be here when they are speaking. do you know if he is coming?
mr president, i thank the commissioner, not just for coming here today to listen to the debate, but also for the help i believe he gave to members of parliament in geneva last week. i could not be there, but they did express their thanks for the way he kept them informed. i got the impression from your address, commissioner – which i thought was quite frank – that, to choose my words carefully – and i could have used stronger words – you were pretty fed up with the way the us was involved in the negotiations. in fact, it would appear that it was pretty intransigent. although you cannot always believe what you read in the press, according to a press release you had asked the us trade representative, susan schwab, what she would be able to offer if the eu were to give the us everything it wanted on market access. apparently she was unable to answer that. i wonder whether the us has a mandate. when we were in hong kong, rob portman seemed never to be able to negotiate. whenever i listened to him, there was a particular problem with west african cotton. certainly when producers lobbied him in hong kong he got very upset and seemed not to be able to make any comment. that was not a big issue for the united states and not a big issue in terms of trade, but it was very important. what is the fallback position if nothing happens in the next month in the negotiations? where do we go? what is the situation? on a minor point, mrs harkin mentioned agriculture. what is the position? there is a huge worry, certainly in the united kingdom and, i am sure, across europe about hormone beef coming into the european union under a trade negotiation with the us. is there a real risk that might happen, or can we stop it?
mr president, it is clear that the world trade talks are in serious crisis, but i hope members will not talk us into an assured failure. it is clear that a successful round depends on tackling agriculture. with up to 85% of their populations living in rural areas it is not surprising that the world’s poorest countries will judge any package on the basis of its impact on their farmers. what i find more baffling, frankly even inexplicable, is the notion that the talks could flounder on the us and to a lesser extent the eu position on agriculture. agriculture represents only 2% of our wealth, therefore it seems perverse to make this a sticking point when we have so much to gain from improved non-market agricultural access and in particular from services liberalisation. since the beginning of the doha round, the eu has undergone substantial cap reform. in hong kong we offered to end agricultural export subsidies by 2013; our everything but arms scheme offers duty-free access for products from the poorest countries. while i believe we can and should go further and i commend the commissioner for his flexibility, particularly the flexibility he showed in geneva, this is a flexibility that is sadly lacking in our negotiating and trading partners. what i would like to ask the commissioner, given his extensive contacts with other negotiators, is whether he can tell this house what sort of package he believes it is necessary for the united states to put on the table in order to break this log-jam. susan schwab has indicated that she remains committed to a successful outcome. what does she need to bring to the table to show that the us is prepared to put its farm subsidies where its mouth is?
mr president, as commissioner mandelson knows, increased trade and prosperity go together. increased trade and prosperity means a reduction in migration, a more stable society and peace. the third world needs as big a share of world trade as anyone else, but the current regime of tariffs and subsidies stifles it. why not drop barriers against the third world in return for domestic, legal and infrastructural progress? the eu will not look again at tariffs before 2013 and precious time will be lost. now we come to the issue of globalisation. why on earth are such high tariffs being put on shoes from china? are we afraid of china’s massive population out-producing europe? we must think again; trade is a two way thing. buying from china means that 500 million europeans will get an entry into a market of 1.3 billion chinese. that is an enormous opportunity for european producers. so i would urge the commissioner to please have the courage and the daring to reduce tariffs and subsidies drastically and stimulate free trade worldwide. let us not just talk about reducing poverty and making poverty history, but let us take real concrete steps to promote trade, which offers the only real solution.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i totally endorse what the commissioner said. what i can never understand in these situations is why a country – and i can think of one in particular, because we had this problem in hong kong – is so afraid of having its own name on a product. if you look, for example, at canada, it almost seems frightened to have its name on products. these countries should be proud of it and see it as a wonderful opportunity. it is not a question of protecting eu trade, of protecting eu jobs; it surely is a question of protecting the consumer across the world. i therefore find the attitude of these non-eu countries difficult to understand. having said that, perhaps we ought first of all to put our own house in order and have country-of-origin marking within the eu, which we do not seem to have at the moment. that might help considerably. the commissioner briefly mentioned one issue that is particularly important: counterfeiting and fraud. origin marking would be of considerable help there. but i say again that while the matter may not come under this remit – and the commissioner was quite right to say i was wrong in assuming that hormone beef was part of the trade negotiations – all this is connected with world trade and it is the kind of issue that will come up. i do not want to see origin marking as a non-trade barrier. i want to see it as an opportunity for countries outside the european union to be able to be proud of what they produce, providing it is produced – and here i totally agree with the commissioner – to the same standards that we have within the european union.
author. – mr president, i am pleased to start off this debate, which i am sure will, as usual, meet with considerable agreement from all sides of this house. i dare say we will also have considerable agreement from the commissioner, though i would point out that the commission usually does agree with us and that is encouraging. as a fellow native of the british isles – although i come from the scottish european rather than the anglo-saxon political tradition – i would ask commissioner mandelson to engage in some discussion with us today, unlike his commissioner colleagues. would he outline in particular what the commission thinks of paragraphs 8 and 6 of this motion for a resolution and, crucially, what the commission is going to do about them? it is difficult to look at somalia and feel anything but sadness and frustration. it presents us with a fundamental dilemma. if the locals, left to their own devices, get it wrong, in our eyes at least, what, short of stepping in and running their country, can we actually do? military engagement is not our way. we do not have the stomach or the appetite for it, or indeed the wherewithal for such action. so what can we do? as a scot, i look with admiration at the role that sweden and norway, small independent northern european countries, have played in promoting dialogue within somalia and the parties there. as a humanitarian, i look with pride at the humanitarian aid we have given. the discussions in the newly formed international somalia contact group are going to be crucial to the strategy which this motion sets out. the discussions in that group are the only way forward in terms of finding a solution. continued engagement in dialogue, sweetened by aid to those most in need, is the european way, and in the long term that is far and away the most successful. right now somalia has taken a turn for the worse. hopefully parliament, together with the commission and the council, can help to bring it back on track. i look forward to hearing from our commissioner as to how the commission will spearhead those efforts, and i assure him of this house’s support.
mr president, i would not deny that transnistria is a very important issue, but it merits a debate in this house on tuesday or wednesday. it should be a full debate within this house, because this is a key issue connected with the european neighbourhood policy. regrettably, on thursday afternoon, half the members will not be here to debate this serious issue. my argument, therefore, is that – as has been agreed by the ppe-de group – we should maintain the human rights debate on zimbabwe, where there is an appalling humanitarian situation under mr mugabe, and we should have a full debate on transnistria at the next plenary part-session.
mr president, the fortnightly retrial in libya of the five bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor – ongoing since 13 june – resumes again tomorrow. this house has been consistent in its support for and action in defence of those people. in particular i should like to thank the president for his intervention in this case with the libyan authorities at the beginning of july. i am appalled that the libyan prosecution has again called for the death penalty during the most recent court hearing on 29 august. reports from recent meetings indicate that the retrial will be concluded within a few months. we have heard that before. three months have passed already, and this has been going on since 1999. i should like to call upon the commission and the council – and again upon you, mr president – to redouble diplomatic efforts with the libyan authorities in order to bring this matter to a speedy and just conclusion, with the immediate release of the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor. (applause)
mr president, it is said that the eu project has no greater ambition than to see the destruction of nation states and to have unwanted and unrealistic federal fantasies imposed upon them. there is an eu programme called interreg – detailed in the british press today – which demands the setting-up of ‘transnational regions’. these include parts of europe that are not even part of the eu: the southern part of norway is in one such region; northern norway and iceland is another. perhaps this is one reason why iceland has decided not to even think about joining the eu for many years to come. my question is, who asked the bureaucrats to spend time considering such stupidity? you will be distressed, however, that these crazy folk have fallen foul of the law of unintended consequences. they have hastened the day when britain says goodbye, for, as winston churchill once said, ‘up with this we will not put’.
mr president, over the last few weeks we have seen the sorry spectacle of the eu dithering, this time while lebanon burned. there was, eventually, a derisory offer of 200 peacekeepers from france – even bangladesh managed more than that, and quicker! remember the tsunami? the us had 150 helicopters and a battle fleet on their way within hours, and the eu held meetings. the balkans: nato was on the ground sorting out the mess, and the eu held meetings. this grandiose, self-styled supranational government finances the people who voted in hamas terrorists and now threatens polish shipyards with closure. but you will not face up to iran! some summer recess!
mr president, over the summer i took the opportunity to be briefed by some of those in industry in my region. when i met the leaders of the milk industry – the representatives of the farmers who produce milk in northern ireland – i was somewhat disturbed to find that the reduction by the european union of the export refunds on milk powder, as well as other export refunds, has driven the price received by the farmers in my region to an all-time low. if this is not reversed, then, quite frankly, the european union will be guilty of putting the dairy farmers in my region out of business. that is totally unacceptable. i ask the commission to take this on board immediately, before it is too late. it is not too late to put together a restructuring package for the industry. the worst thing about europe is that we always act when it is too late. if we act now, we can act in time.
mr president, i want to raise with parliament the deteriorating situation in darfur. tension is building up very seriously and a large-scale military confrontation is threatened, as thousands and thousands of sudanese troops are now moving into the region with trucks, bombs and guns. we also face a massive humanitarian catastrophe, as the hard-line sudanese junta absolutely refuses to accept the un troops, as agreed by the security council last week in new york. we face competing pressures on the budget and i would hope that this parliament will remain faithful to the view that darfur should not drop out of our set of priorities at this crucial time. could i also ask you to contact high representative solana to ask him to make urgent representations to the sudanese, and to the african union to make sure that the latter’s mandate can be extended until such time as that united nations force can be deployed in this tragic region of sudan.
mr president, the ridiculous story in the british press to which mr wise referred earlier actually originates from a disgraceful press release put out by the deputy chairman of the british conservative party, mr eric pickles. it is interesting to see ukip and the conservative party working hand-in-hand. the press release actually claims: ‘the european union plots to wipe britain off the map’. it alleges that britain is to be broken up into a series of transnational regions and will no longer exist. if you look at the references it transpires that the so-called plot is nothing more than the old interreg regions – the regional cooperation between different regions with similar problems, such as the atlantic regions. presumably if they saw a geological map of europe, they would claim that scotland was being merged with austria because they both have granite, or that the different limestone areas were being merged into transnational regions. sadly, the british conservative party, which is trying to portray itself as a serious party, has revealed its true colours by this press release. nobody can believe that it is trying to be serious anymore. (applause)
mr president, they do not give up, do they? despite the commission’s insistence that this proposal is not aimed at tax harmonisation, it will force countries that apply tax on registration of vehicles to phase that out and it will make all countries apply the same level of emissions-linking to the so-called ‘annual circulation tax’. is that harmonisation, or is it not? the rapporteur gives the game away when she argues that in the long term it would be of great advantage to approximate the act rates – meaning the same rates of road tax in all countries. they simply do not understand that allowing countries the freedom to choose how much revenue to raise and how to raise it is a fundamental responsibility of our elected national governments. moreover, competition over tax rates and tax bases between national authorities is actually a good thing for business and economic growth – witness the general reductions in company tax over the past few years. the worry is that when the eu gets involved it inevitably screws up. for instance, despite eight directives on value-added tax so far, the administration of vat remains as complex as ever and fraud is now running into billions. unfortunately the drive for tax harmonisation in the european union remains alive as always. i sincerely hope, though, that this particular piece of legislation may be stopped.
mr president, let us not kid ourselves. the report we have before us clearly addresses the issue of taxation. whether a report deals with tax structures – which is the case here – or tax levels, it is not a competence of the european union and these discussions should not, in my opinion, be taking place here. as with many other areas of business we debate, i fear that this would only be the thin end of the wedge in terms of eu interference with taxation: further treaty creep would most probably follow. in my opinion, sovereign member states should be free to set their own criteria and levels of taxation, and not have the eu dictate to them. in that i agree wholly with mrs doyle. however, i have to say i am pleased to see that parliament is addressing an issue which the commission has failed even to acknowledge: that of vintage vehicles. they must be excluded from the provisions of this directive and i personally will support any amendments to this end. we all want to see cleaner vehicles on our roads. indeed, in the uk we are moving to a car-tax structure based on emissions levels. however, harmonisation of tax structures is not the way to achieve this: better design, cleaner fuels and research into alternative fuels are the way forward, not a half-baked attempt to extend the competence of the eu into tax.
mr president, pollution crosses borders and requires urgent co-ordinated action to deal with its consequences, so it is wholly appropriate that we create at eu level a framework to deal with it. i congratulate the commissioner and our rapporteur for their excellent work on this matter, but it is only a start. the best cure is prevention. we, in scotland, an oil-producing maritime nation, have a live debate on proposals to transfer oil from ship to ship at sea, in an area of special scientific interest covered by the birds directive, the river forth, just north of edinburgh. this is an area precious to scotland's natural environment. there is almost total opposition to these proposals in scotland and yet the united kingdom maritime and coastguard agency just yesterday gave its approval for these potentially disastrous plans to go forward. fortunately, the eu can take a bigger view. commissioner dimas has launched an investigation into the potential environmental consequences of these proposals and i hope his investigation will stop these proposals from being implemented. while i welcome and support the commission's proposals, they are a start. i believe we can go further. i believe my group wants us to go further still. these proposals are stopping a disaster from happening but, of course, dealing with its consequences is only part of the picture, we must prevent them also.
mr president, it is unusual for this parliament to debate an electoral process in the middle of that election taking place. however, there are a number of reasons why that is justified. firstly, as colleagues have said, the three million deaths in five years; there are still one thousand people a day in the congo dying from the indirect consequences of that war. secondly, the electoral process to enable those former belligerents to join the democratic process remains fragile, as the three days of fighting in the congo following the publication of the preliminary first-round results demonstrates. we should do everything as a parliament to support the process of post-conflict reconciliation and democratic transformation. thirdly, this is an electoral process where the eu is playing a central role, as commissioner michel has already explained: 80% of the cost of the election is being met by the european union, the biggest ever eu electoral observation mission in africa and all of it backed up by an eu military mission assisting our un partners in providing the necessary protection to enable the election to take place in peace and stability. the electoral observation mission, ably led by our colleague general morillon – whose work i commend – has made only a preliminary report and any political assessment this parliament makes must similarly be guarded before drawing our own conclusions in this house. yet, the members of the european parliament present did note the late publication of the voter rolls, the failure in many, if not most, cases for the candidate details to be posted outside the polling stations and the apparent sharp inequalities between the financial means available to different candidates and parties, together with legitimate questions as to how their money was raised. however, in terms of the technical conduct of the elections, i want to emphasise the incredible commitment to the process shown by the mainly young polling officials. in lubumbashi, where i was based, they worked non-stop throughout the night, without electricity, fuel or water; a 22-hour count conducted in large part by candlelight and where the officials slept for a few minutes by rota in their determination to enable the process to be completed fairly and accurately. i have been taking part in elections since 1979. i have never seen an election like it. finally, my colleague, mr schröder, has already made it quite clear that it was necessary to enable commissioner michel last week to answer on the record the questions raised with him, and that process has been completed. tonight, i want to simply repeat my closing statement to the commission last week and say that redoubled efforts should be made to insist on the european union’s neutrality in this process and that the european observation mission must be specifically tasked with monitoring the allegations of bias made in the democratic republic of the congo. i invite the commissioner to join with his colleague, commissioner ferrero-waldner, to ensure that the results of this monitoring are fully evaluated, both for the second round of the elections in the congo, and for the benefit of future european electoral missions.
mr president, i was part of the observation mission, too, and the first-round polling day passed surprisingly smoothly, given the enormity of the task. as mr howitt said, the election agents were well trained and confident about what they were doing and showed great dedication. there were a few things that appeared not to be organised absolutely perfectly. for instance, there did not appear to be a coherent plan for dealing with the enormous volume of material disgorged into the compilation centres – some of it sensitive material, some of it not. it is important in the weeks up to the second round that as much is done as possible to tighten up on any procedural weaknesses, so that there can be no technical grounds for dispute at what will be a very sensitive moment. secondly, we observers detected the perception in some quarters, as has been mentioned, that the eu was not neutral. it was an erroneous perception, but it could weaken the authority of the eu mission, which needs to be trusted by all sides. it could also potentially put eu election observers at risk. the eu needs to work hard in the weeks up to the second round to convince the congolese of its neutrality. nothing must be done that could be construed as favouring one presidential candidate over the other. finally, i would stress – as did mr schröder – that no one must doubt how much this election matters. it matters for the congolese, who have waited 40 years for democratic elections and who turned out in great numbers on 30 july, but it matters globally too. for example, there is a supposedly closed uranium mine in the south of the congo from which uranium is still being mined and exported, probably to iran. the world is not safe while there is an ungoverned hole in the heart of africa.
the first item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the suspension of negotiations on the doha development agenda (dda) by enrique barón crespo, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-0088/2006 – b6-0427/2006).
mr president, the indefinite suspension of the doha round creates serious risks for our global economy. it threatens parity and prosperity for the developing world, jobs, growth and security in europe, and the future of the multilateral trade system itself. a new explosion of discriminatory bilateral and regional agreements could substitute global liberalisation, eroding the multilateral and rules-based system of the wto. while some might say that no deal was better than a bad deal for developing countries, without the shield of the wto – as you said, commissioner – they will be left vulnerable to use and abuse in a unilateral scramble for trade domination. failure will mean that protectionism will fill the vacuum as momentum towards wide-ranging reduction of barriers ceases; the world economy will slow down and global trade imbalances will continue to rise; financial markets will become more unstable; and international economic cooperation will break down further. with the erosion of the wto system, speculation is rife about what form a ‘plan b’ might take: perhaps and east asia free trade area; perhaps japan’s proposal for a pan-asian comprehensive economic partnership that includes india, australia and new zealand. either of those would create a new asian bloc that, along with the european union and nafta, would produce a tri-polar world with all its inherent instabilities. does the commission agree that there is now an urgent need for a plan b to get world trade policy back on track and for the eu to play a key role in shaping the world trade order? does the commission agree that such a strategy must have these three key objectives: to spur the revival of doha; to offer an ambitious alternative to restart the process of liberalisation on the widest possible basis if our primary goal fails; and to counter the proliferation of preferential deals amongst small groups of countries? time and time again i have stood in front of you, commissioner, and reflected on the finger-pointing blame game that has plagued progress. it is time to set that blame aside. the ‘everything but arms’ initiative shows that the eu can do good, but we can and must do better before the us mandate expires and, with it, our opportunity to eradicate poverty and distribute fairly the benefits of globalisation.
mr president, clearly, as the commissioner and others have said, agricultural change remains the key to lifting millions of farmers in africa, asia and latin america out of poverty. realistically, commissioner, until we in the rich world tackle the need for fairer and better access to our markets, there will be no prospect of a wider deal on industrial goods and services. a shift to regional trade deals would, as you and others have said, be a major step backwards and undermine the essential principle of non-discrimination. such deals would exclude most of the world’s poorest countries, including acp countries, which are of course by definition generally small, vulnerable and of little economic significance. before returning to the negotiations, commissioner, the rich countries must deal with subsidies and dumping, especially as regards cotton. also, there is an urgent need for a decision on aid for trade, with new money and with no strings attached. in addition, it needs to be understood, during the preparations, that the pace and scale of market opening is critical for developing countries, as is special and differential treatment and tariff protection. someone has mentioned the danger of a flood of trade complaints to the wto, and it is my belief that there should be major reform of the sanction mechanism, which currently only comes into play when the complainant is a major player. acp commodity-dependent countries know this full well and to their cost. ‘waving or drowning’: it is sometimes very difficult to tell the difference. multilateral agreement is essential. regional, bilateral agreements are not what we are looking for. you now face a formidable task, commissioner, and one that will severely test your diplomatic and consensus-building skills, as well as those of others. we wish you well in that task.
mr president, i could not disagree more with the previous speaker, mrs mcguinness, on the point she made about the poor. the alternative to a successful doha round is sadly already emerging. it is a backward step to a world of unequal and exclusive bilateral deals: deals that are already strong-arming many poor countries into accepting lesser terms on market access and intellectual property rights; deals that are leaving the poorest countries out in the cold. i believe that we still can and should go the extra mile to ensure the completion of a round that is truly about development. that will take time. in the short term, as others have said, we need to rescue the gains made at hong kong: the landmark agreement to end export subsidies by 2013; duty- and quota-free access for the poorest countries, modelled on the eu’s pioneering ‘everything but arms’ scheme; as well as a substantial commitment to expanding aid for trade to improve supply-side capacity and trade-related infrastructures in the ldcs. i commend the commissioner on the flexibility he has shown since the collapse of the single undertaking in seeking to salvage the development package – a flexibility again, i am afraid, lacking in some of our negotiating partners. amid the stock-taking at the wto, the recent report of that organisation’s task force on aid for trade is timely. it highlights the real need for demand-driven additional aid, aid targeted to enable the poorest countries to participate in the global trading system. aid for trade cannot substitute for delivery of the doha round, yet, in the intervening period, it remains an important tool to meet the technical and logistical challenges that these countries face in bringing their goods to the world market. the faltering of the doha talks and the disillusion surrounding their aims means that aid for trade is now more politically apposite than ever. it is in the interests of all countries, developed and advanced developing, to commit funds multilaterally to ensure that the appropriate investments are made in trade-related infrastructure to allow the poorest countries to trade their way out of poverty. i look forward to the eu – and the commission in particular – taking a lead on these issues.
mr president, we all understand the difficulty and the complexity surrounding the wto negotiations and we support the commissioner and his team. the eu put a good deal on the table; we were waiting for serious counter-offers and were sadly disappointed by what came back. surely now is the time for the eu to show moral courage and leadership. has the commission considered the potential costs and benefits of the eu unilaterally eliminating all its subsidies and import tariffs on agricultural products and how this might benefit the eu, developing countries and the wto negotiations? in new zealand, farmers screamed when their subsidies were abolished. yet new zealand farmers are now amongst the most efficient in the world, in fact forcing other trade blocs to put up tariffs and barriers to their products. we no longer live in a post-war europe where food security was a legitimate concern. surely we need to bring the farmers of the eu into the 21st century and show moral leadership in setting dates for the abolition of both subsidies and tariffs so that less-developed countries can benefit with new markets for their produce, eu farmers would become amongst the most efficient in the world, and we would secure the goal of services liberalisation, releasing the talents of europe onto the world.
thank you, mr kamall. there are not many farmers in your constituency, are there?!
in writing. mr president, i support the broad thrust of this report and criticism of inefficiency, though would stress my own commitment to multilingualism in our workings. yes, it costs money to translate our workings, but it is a crucial component of mutual respect that each language has equal dignity to all others. of course, it remains open to groups of meps to find other ways of working, this already happens and i would expect that process to continue and expand. as an institution we must maintain equal access for all, to do otherwise would undermine our democratic foundations.
in writing. multilingualism is an essential part of being able to communicate in the eu institutions. the cost of being able to do this increases because of strasbourg. to avoid this cost there should be one seat for the european parliament and that should be in brussels. the european parliament is the only parliament in the world which has no say over where it sits. this has to change once and for all.
in writing. pollution caused by ships is extremely concerning. the proposal to allow ship-to-ship oil transfers in the firth of forth is something i have been campaigning strongly against. i have been in constant communication with the european commission regarding these controversial transfers and it is aware of the strength of local feeling in fife, as well as the very grave risks to the local environment. they have told me that the transfer of oil between vessels entails a considerable risk of oil being spilt into the sea. we cannot allow ship-to-ship oil transfers to go ahead. i urge the rapporteur and the commission to press for an early conclusion to be reached by the sub-committee assessing the risks attached to pollution from hydrocarbons.
in writing. i voted in favour of the successful amendments which call for the setting-up of a europe-wide child helpline, and to continue the helpdesk service to ngos. i also voted in favour of the amendment which includes the fight against domestic violence in the daphne programme. i welcome the overwhelming vote in favour of the report, and hope that the programme will succeed in strengthening the ongoing fight against violence.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues abhor all violence perpetrated against women and children. national programmes in this regard should be the primary means of countering this important social problem as national governments and parliaments and local agencies are best placed to have knowledge and understanding of the issues at stake. while we support many of the sentiments and specific collaborative ideas in this report, we have decided to abstain on the final vote as it calls for the ‘identification of a legal basis for combating violence ... under current european legislation’. this statement and others in the report point to increasing communitarisation, which we do not believe is necessary or desirable as it risks undermining national and local counter-violence strategies.
in writing. i welcome this report, which introduces a programme to prevent and combat violence against children, young people and women and to protect victims and groups at risk. physical, sexual and psychological violence against children, young people and women, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or private life, should not be tolerated throughout the eu and should be seen as constituting a breach of their right to life, safety, freedom, dignity and physical and emotional integrity. member states also need to recognise that genital mutilation constitutes a particular form of violence against women with short-term and long-term detrimental effects on their health, and that the main victims are members of minority communities. in order to achieve the objectives of this report, i agree that clear and credible targets are required, such as halving the number of people who fall victim to violence and human trafficking over the next ten years. i welcome the establishment of a think-tank to provide guidelines to the commission on the social, cultural and political context as regards the selection of projects and complementary actions which will aid the daphne ii programme significantly.
in writing. i would like to praise the rapportuer for her unstinting commitment to campaigning against violence affecting women and children. the daphne programme provides an important tool in fighting against violence. in scotland the ‘zero tolerance’ campaign highlighted that as many as one in three women had been affected by domestic violence. we have to do all that we can to condemn violence against women and children. only by working together can we achieve an end to these crimes.
in writing. british conservative meps strongly support the objective of improving the natural environment in which we live. in addition to the environmental aspects of the report that we support, we also support the avoidance of british citizens being taxed double when they move abroad and the rights of consumers to benefit from an enhanced single market. our decision to abstain on the final vote does not imply that we are opposed to the requirement for urgent measures to improve the environment. many of the measures in the report can be supported, but we are opposed to passing new and additional powers to the european commission and other european institutions when the same objectives can be achieved at national level. importantly, we cannot support the call in this report to give the european commission tax powers at the expense of national governments and, for this reason, as well as our general opposition to handing more powers to the commission, we abstained on the final vote.
in writing. i abstained on all of the votes on amendments, and voted against the report in the final vote. i did so because i strongly believe that all powers over taxation, which are currently member state competences, should remain with member states. specifically, i look forward to the day when an independent scottish government has the power over revenue-raising through taxation, including car taxation which, in scotland, must take due account of the fact that car transport is absolutely essential to residents throughout our rural areas.
in writing. the eplp is, in principle, in favour of a link between levels of taxation and our commitments to reducing environmental pollution. whilst the eplp believes that this is an extremely important opinion that raises many relevant points in trying to develop a europe-wide solution linking to pollution to consumption, the eplp believes that taxation is a matter of national competence and therefore cannot support aims at harmonising taxation at an eu level to reach these aims without full unanimity. therefore, the eplp has abstained from the final vote.
in writing. mr president, as a proud scottish european i believe passionately that we should work together across our continent where it makes sense, though do not believe it to be the case on matters to do with tax. where i have much sympathy with the ideas in this report, it is important to consider also whether they should be dealt with at eu level. i believe they should not, so have accordingly abstained on the key provisions of this report which suggest otherwise.
in writing. there are a number of points which i disagree with and therefore i had to abstain on this report. although i agree that we must reduce environmental pollution, i believe that taxation should be dealt with at member state level.
rapporteur. – mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, having heard the presentation of the 2007 draft budget, we have an opportunity this afternoon to continue the discussions we had in helsinki in july. thank you for that invitation, madam president-in-office, which enabled us to establish contact as a small group, which then became a bigger one for the first reading of the draft budget in brussels in july. as the budget rapporteur for the house, i should like to make four comments on this particular occasion: one general comment and three specific comments. the first, general, comment is that since this is the first year in the financial perspective we need to think of it in terms of being a strategic base, because in this particular year we will be setting in motion a number of ideas or ways of doing things that will reverberate over the next few years up to 2013. as stated in particular in parliament’s resolution on the annual policy strategy adopted earlier this year, we need in europe as a whole to be able to adapt more quickly to the phenomenon of globalisation, which is changing the global economy and changing the orientation of our priorities to one of ‘policy for results’ – as the president of the commission has explained. i sense this is going to change the way in which we budget and finance what we do, and we may see the first signs of this in the 2007 budget. specifically, i would like to address the question of value for money, because this marks a departure from the norm, as i understand it from the council’s first reading, with many of the decisions on cut-backs in various areas not being done across-the-board but by taking into account the results of the activity statements produced by the commission in particular sectors. as we shape our thinking on this we will refer back to what was set out with regard to the annual policy strategy, which was that there are other elements that must be taken into account when looking at the absorption capacity of particular lines or the funds available for them. the first of these elements is the document produced by the commission, the budget forecast alert, which shows how expenditure is being implemented across particular budget lines for a particular year. another of the cost-benefit analyses we have launched in the committee on budgets is to look at particular areas where we think expenditure could be weak in quantitative or, in particular, qualitative terms. last but not least there are the court of auditors’ reports, of which we have many, on the way in which expenditure is used in particular budget areas. we are beginning to sense in the committee on budgets that we can bring together various elements that will indicate to us those lines where expenditure will be implemented correctly, and of which we can be sure, and perhaps also other lines of which we cannot be so sure. we certainly hope that by the end of the process, madam president-in-office, you will be able to align the council with the declaration we adopted in july, at the time of the draft budget, calling for value for money to be considered in the european union budget. the second specific issue is the question of priorities. we are all aware that we have less money available under the financial perspective than we had sought in the final negotiations earlier this year, and that it therefore behoves us to look at the priorities across the different sectors. when it comes to the vote at first reading i suspect that parliament will be following the priorities set out by mr böge, its rapporteur on the financial perspective. these have not changed greatly and are also set out in the resolution on the annual policy strategy. that is what we are expecting for areas of research and innovation, into which we understand that the council, in the form of the member states, would like to invest more money, but of course there is never quite that much when it comes to the final budget. then there is the implementation of pilot projects and preparatory actions. in this field too we can think of areas in which we can spur action and in which long-term programmes could be run, in the form, perhaps, of exchanges of business and scientific personnel between the eu and china, or the eu and india. however, you cannot expect us at this stage to pick up on the ideas regarding administration. we rejected those when we discussed them at first reading in the council, and it will take a great deal more discussion before we can come to any agreement on what to do as regards staff resources for the commission. the last point is that it is very strange that often in this house we can vote on a legislative programme, as we did on the one for 2006 last december, and yet no citizen in the european union knows what the european union will be legislating on, because you have the commission proposal and you then have the parliamentary resolution. in the committee on budgets, as stated with regard to the annual policy strategy, we are looking to bring those two processes together and to have the budget decision and the legislative decision in december, followed by a clear statement from the commission as to what the legislative programme for the union is, so that everyone would know what it was – not just us in this house but people all over europe. in conclusion i would like to thank the president-in-office for having come today to present the draft budget. there are a lot of discussions ahead of us, but we will seek a successful outcome for this budget that takes into account the european parliament’s priorities, as well as those of the council.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this report covers ten diverse fields, practically all eu areas, from peace and security to human rights and from lisbon to laeken. it is, then, an aspiration, an attempt at founding an embryonic culture. when i was younger i played rugby and i recall a match that was not going well. the captain gathered us together imploring us to have more team spirit. an empty gesture, because team spirit cannot be manufactured: it arises from the game’s culture of combining various skills, of playing for each other, of covering each other’s mistakes and of the post-match social atmosphere. by the same token, it is no use the rapporteurs gathering us together to vote for a european social model. if all its various parts, reports, treaties, rules and regulations, etc. are worthwhile and are put into practice by all this team of nations, then the european social model will emerge of its own volition. therefore, this report is irrelevant! recital o of the report specifies that the constitution should reflect the concept of the social model – covering the same ground. it follows that the european constitution is also irrelevant, as well as dead! this report emphasises the role of the member states and their competences, especially their role in securing jobs leading to economic growth and prosperity. it comments on the diversity of the european member states and says that we must respect their traditions, all of which was endorsed this morning by the finnish president. however, this will all be swept aside and lost if the eu embarks on the madness of a constitution. in conclusion, you may gather that i doubt the sincerity of this report, which includes the statement: ‘recommends that member states deepen cooperation and exchange of best practice’. one year ago i remarked in this house that one of the central features of the eu was that each member state could bring to the table its best practice to share with all the others. however, when i said this in the committee on employment and social affairs during the working time directive debate and tried to contribute some best practice from a member state – the uk – i was firmly told by that rapporteur: ‘we don’t want you dumping your ideas on us’.
mr president, a year ago british prime minister tony blair addressed this house and asked a vital question: what sort of social model is it that delivers 20 million unemployed across the eu? it was a good question, and so far i have not heard the answer. the european social model is well meaning, it is compassionate, it is meant to do good and yet it has created a regulatory and fiscal climate which is deterring enterprise, destroying wealth and undermining competitiveness. it is time to face reality: one man’s job protection is another man’s unemployment. the social model is profoundly discriminatory. it discriminates in favour of people in work and against the unemployed. if we want to achieve the lisbon objectives, if we want to face up to the challenges of globalisation, if we want growth and jobs and competitiveness and prosperity, then we have to start to dismantle the european social model.
mr president, i wish to congratulate both rapporteurs, who have done excellent work. last autumn, during the british presidency and in the run-up to the extraordinary summit at hampton court, members of my own government were saying two contradictory things about the idea of the european social model. on the one hand they said there was no such thing as a european social model – we have 25 different national social models – while on the other they said that if there was such a thing as a european social model then it was a continental phenomenon and a millstone around the necks of a number of member state economies. mr helmer has reminded us of what mr blair said in this house. in fact, a number of ministers have said the same thing, and are obviously reading from the same script - i.e. do we really want a social model that throws 20 million into unemployment? if mr helmer was listening to the debate then he would have heard an answer to that assertion from mr blair, because this report nails those lies. the very first substantive paragraph underlines the point that we indeed have a european social model which reflects a common set of values based on the preservation of peace, social justice, equality, solidarity, the promotion of freedom and democracy and respect for human rights. the report makes the point that far from the model being a burden or a millstone, social policy should be seen as a positive factor in the european union’s economic growth, not only by increasing productivity and competitiveness but also by generating social cohesion, raising living standards for citizens and ensuring access to fundamental rights and freedoms. that is absolutely correct, and if we see it in that sense, social policy becomes a productive factor – the theme of a dutch presidency some years ago. the report also recognises what a number of people have said, which is that there is a clear need to modernise and adapt the model to respond to the wide range of challenges we face: demographic and technological change, globalisation and so on. the rapporteurs also stress that reform and modernisation of the model must preserve and enhance the values associated with it. that is of vital importance. in britain a number of people engage in headshaking about what they see as the over-slow progress in modernisation and reform in a number of continental european countries. what they tend to forget is the brutal, inhumane and destructive way in which reform was managed during the thatcher years in britain. what a number of continental countries are trying to do is to engage in that reform process through consensus, while preserving the underlying values of the european social model. that is the way to do it, and it is one i very much admire. one final point: i regret that the ppe-de group has tabled an amendment to paragraph 23 aimed at removing a specific reference to the need for the commission to bring forward a framework on services of general interest. i very much hope that amendment falls, because had we had that framework the services directive itself would have had a far easier passage. we still need it and i hope the commission will heed the call for it made in the report.
mr president, firstly, i should like say that i do not like the fact that the two largest parties prepare joint reports as a matter of principle. i feel that it excludes other parties from the outset. as for this report, it is generally ok. i know that sounds churlish, but i am pleased subsidiarity has been mentioned and we call on member states to act and not the eu. however, i have severe reservations as regards talking about a european social model at all. i know we have common goals, but we do not have common systems across member states – as other people have mentioned – to achieve those goals. neither, i believe, should we have, hence my concerns. i know others have mentioned this, but i would not like it to be thought, if this report is passed, that we want to work towards a one-size-fits-all european social model, instead of respecting the diversity that we have at the moment. common social objectives, yes; a common social model, no.
mr president, the co-rapporteur, mr de rossa, talked about the need for a ‘decent society’. that phrase was very much paralleled and echoed by the council when talking about the need for ‘social justice’. i hope that on all sides of the house people would agree on the importance of those phrases and agree that they should not just be empty phrases but concepts of real meaning. i hope also that people on both sides of this house would recognise the importance of their applying to everybody in real social inclusion. in other words, that they should apply not just to those people who are in work, not just to those people who are not able to work, but also to those people who want to work but are unable to find work because there are too many obstacles in their way. that is why i would also like to congratulate – in addition to the first co-rapporteur – the other co-rapporteur, mr silva peneda. when he spoke he referred to the need to reform the social model. that phrase was picked up by the commissioner himself, who talked about the need for reform. what particularly impressed me about the commissioner’s remarks was that he said that the status quo is not an option. he specifically referred to the 20 million unemployed, because they are indeed a constant reminder of the biggest social injustice of all. something has to be done. we must help to do it. to my mind the key word is ‘reform’. i have tabled an amendment, with the help of a dozen or so colleagues from different countries, to insert into amendment 1 on recital f the phrase ‘modernisation and reform’. the good news is that mr hughes has confirmed to me this afternoon that the pse group will support that phrase. we have the chance, as a house, to show that we all support that phrase and that it is not empty of meaning, but a phrase of substance. our constituents want reform. let us show tomorrow that we want it and are going to vote for it too.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we all knew that this was going to be an exercise in learning by doing and that we would not get it right first time – and indeed we did not get it right first time! the issue of more allowances than there are emissions obviously risked undermining the credibility of the whole scheme, but now we are on the second round of the process and we need to have learnt those lessons. i am grateful to the commissioner for coming here and naming by implication those member states which have failed so far to meet the deadline for the submission of these plans. we are not going to go anywhere if member states do not actually produce the goods they have promised to produce. i hope that the minister will put this on the agenda of the environment council on 23 october. now that we can see the ministers on television i look forward to seeing the embarrassment as you point your finger at them, minister, one by one, and ask them for an explanation as to why those plans have not been submitted. all too often these plans are coming in late and they are coming in lax. the commission has got to be fair, but it has to be tough. parliament expects you to ensure that these national allocation plans meet the goals required of the emissions trading scheme, and many member states which are genuinely committed and have submitted their plans already will be backing you and want you to ensure that there is a level playing field and that the others fall into line. whatever they may say, many member states are looking for an escape route from the emissions trading scheme. it is up to you to make sure that the exit doors are all closed.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can answer the honourable member's question by saying that one of the priorities on which we are working with the finnish presidency is to propose, by december with a first assessment in october, a european model for integrated surveillance of maritime borders. we are aware that a maritime border is very different from a land border or an airport border, and it is therefore clear that the black sea will also be one of the areas of focus. i can only tell the honourable member that i met again with the bulgarian minister of the interior just yesterday and reiterated to him the need for bulgaria and romania to prepare adequately for a strong european contribution to the control of a very sensitive border.
the commission's vice-president you've brought up a very important subject. i have had occasion on several occasions to say that the vast problem of massive regularization risks undermining the principle of solidarity between member states. we first raised this issue in the council some 14 months ago. we decided at that time that any national measures to regularize illegal immigrants should be preceded by a european consultation, which allows the rotating presidency and the european commission to give an opinion on the impact of the said regularization measure on the other member states. here too, the principle of solidarity is mentioned. we approved a document. it has not yet formally entered into force, but it has the force of a political decision. i therefore ask any member state of the union which is considering regularisation to comply with this requirement of prior consultation, so as to enable other member states to take measures to take account of the impact of this massive regularisation.
commissioner, considering the huge scale of citizenship granted over recent years in bulgaria to immigrants from moldova, ukraine, russia and elsewhere, what realistic steps will be taken to control that immigration by proxy through bulgaria and romania? with most other member states not taking their fair share of immigration under the 2004 enlargement, would countries like mine, the united kingdom, not be wholly justified in refusing to extend their present open-door policy to romania and bulgaria?
commissioner, i wonder whether you saw in the press this week – certainly in the british press – reports of a plan by a german entrepreneur to start smoking flights from europe to asia. firstly, does the commissioner condemn this and, secondly, is there anything the commission can do legally to stop this from happening?
i very much welcome the commissioner's responses, but can i also ask whether he would agree that more flexibility, particularly within the review of the working time directive, would be good for employment as well as competitiveness, and would he give a personal lead in promoting this?
vice-president of the commission. i must admit, madam president, that i have a problem with this question because the wealth of activities and initiatives which the commission has taken on this subject just recently is so dense that it would take me a long time to tell you all that we are doing at the moment. that's why i'm giving you a summary now, also in the interest of the president's economy. the commission's main policy objectives are to reduce red tape, to reduce administrative costs for small and mediumsized enterprises, and to improve the quality of our legislation. that is what this commission is about. we have brought about a real paradigm shift. the whole of european law - really, law by law, provision by provision - is being systematically examined by us to see whether it can be simplified, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, and whether it contains requirements which hinder small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has put sme policy - as you know - where it belongs, at the heart of our economic thinking, because europe is not defined by big business. europe is defined by small and mediumsized enterprises, and what small and mediumsized enterprises need is more freedom, more self-responsibility. they need an environment in which to develop. we firmly believe that the 'bureaucracy and better regulation' project is a cross-cutting task across the commission, involving all dgs, which will make a very important contribution to strengthening the role of small and medium-sized enterprises and encouraging more people in europe to start their own business, to take their own risks and thus to provide jobs for others. madam president, in the interest of time i might suggest that i make the full text of my reply, which sets out all these initiatives in detail, available to the honourable member and i am also prepared to provide any further information.
vice-president of the commission. i would not say that today in this sharpness. last year, i would have said the same thing you did. but you know that in the meantime there has been a total revision of the lisbon strategy - the strategy for growth and jobs that i have just spoken about - which was adopted in the spring of last year. without wishing to prejudge the report which the commission will present at the end of this year, i think i can say one thing: we are indeed seeing the first positive effects. we see it in the policies of the member states, but we also see it in the european economy. i don't know if you felt the same way i did when you read the papers today. for the first time in a long time, we read that the growth of european production and economic growth as a whole has exceeded the growth of japan and the united states. we are now growing again faster than our american and japanese competitors. that means the gap is starting to close, and i hope that this trend continues. it's a first indicator, but it gives me hope and shows me that we're on the right track.
commissioner, without seeking to be unkind, is it not fair to say that the commission’s record on cutting red tape has been very high on promise, but very low on delivery? indeed it is not without significance that though you promise us a recital in written form of some examples, you have not been able today in your substantive answer to give a single example of realistic cutting of red tape. the experience in my constituency is that businesses see no sign of it. they find themselves more and more burdened in circumstances where it is seriously impeding their competitiveness.
would the commissioner accept that his warm words on small and medium-sized enterprises would have more credibility if our own research funds did not discriminate against small companies? i know of a case of two companies – one large and one small – in the same programme, where the large company is audited at the end of the programme and receives its grants in advance, whereas the small company has to have an annual audit, at its own expense, and receives its money in arrears. does the commissioner not accept that this is a reversal of what the priorities should be?
member of the commission. i shall try to answer the two related questions in relation to both the study and the banning of birds and the data provided by the royal society for the prevention of cruelty to animals: in october 2005, the commission adopted rapid and effective preventive measures on the basis of the existing veterinary legislative framework. we had extended the import ban on all birds until 31 may 2006; we have given a further extension until 31 december 2006 and it is likely that, in view of the developments in the spread of avian influenza, there will be another extension. the commission also requested the european food safety authority to provide an opinion on animal health and welfare matters concerning the import of birds other than poultry. this opinion is expected in october 2006. as regards the protection of biodiversity and wild birds, the commission, following the council meeting last december, commissioned a study in january 2006 to examine the effectiveness of community regulations on trade in species of wild fauna and flora. the main framework for protection and marketing measures is the convention on international trade in endangered species (cites) which has been transposed into european union law through the regulations on trade in wildlife species. at present, these regulations allow imports as long as they do not jeopardize the protection of the species. the competent scientific committee of the european union, with the cooperation of all the scientific authorities of the member states of the european union, is responsible for examining imports of species of wild fauna and flora. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not distorted by the introduction of new species. the study we have commissioned will cover the question of the effectiveness of these regulations in protecting species of wild fauna and flora from a broader perspective, with a focus on wild birds. the results of this study are expected to be available by mid-2007. in preparing the above study, the findings of the report published by the royal society for the prevention of cruelty to animals and the european group on animal welfare will of course be taken into account.
thank you for that reply, commissioner. i am glad that the study has at least started, despite the fact that we are having to wait until mid-2007, when it was first requested in december 2005. that seems to be quite a long way away, but let us hope it is worth the wait. could you explain why the eu continues to import birds when countries such as the united states, for example, consider that those same birds are not sustainably harvested? since 1992 the us has imposed a moratorium on all cites-listed birds unless it can be scientifically proven that they are harvested in a sustainable way. since 1992 not a single one has been proved to be sustainably harvested. many developing countries also have bans on the export of those birds. so how is it that the united states has such a different assessment from the eu as to whether or not they are being sustainably harvested?
member of the commission. firstly, i can tell you that the united states has not signed the biodiversity convention. it has different rules; it has a general ban but it also has exemptions. we have more or less the same result by having species considered separately. however, the results are more or less the same because the united states has a lot of illegal trade and we also have illegal trade. the commission will look at what the united states is doing and what the results are. while the united states bans all imports, we have to look at it and see whether, firstly, this general ban will increase the illegal trade. we do not know. the study shows that perhaps we have less illegal trade, but we do not know what will happen in the future. if we introduce a permanent ban for birds we will have to consider how and why they are treated differently from all other species, like corals and reptiles, because we have a comprehensive policy. the united states has a different approach to this. we would also like to consider whether an unlimited trade ban by the united states could be challenged by exporting countries, for example within the framework of the world trade organization. this might also challenge and undermine our existing sophisticated restrictive measures which make it possible for the european union to take temporary measures on a consultation basis with the exporting countries. but still, we will look at a ban with derogations in our study.
whatever the united states may do by way of exemptions, we have a temporary ban which has been shown to work in terms of reducing the illegal trade, but we do not have a permanent ban, and it is we in europe who are the major importers of wild birds, at 93% - going on for a million a year until 2003. between 40 and 70% of those birds die before they are exported and many more die en route to europe. surely it is time that we made our ban permanent and then led the world and set an example for countries like the united states and australia?
member of the commission. this study has shown that the recent confiscations have decreased after we had the ban for health reasons. it is difficult to measure exact numbers of illegally-traded animals, since these, by definition, are not known. the amount of seized and confiscated birds in the european union may have recently decreased because of the current temporary ban on all imports. no birds are offered for any import procedures since they would automatically and immediately be refused. of particular concern is that birds are still being traded illegally and seized in member states. they are imported and introduced without any veterinary controls. again, we shall see what the study tells us and whether a ban with derogations would be a better solution than the current system, which is a case-by-case examination of species. we permit the importation of only those birds that are not in danger of extinction.
the commissioner mentioned that he was concerned about birds threatened with extinction. he will be aware, however, that i and one of my constituents have written to him several times about the case of a legitimate and legal importer of birds from the united states, legally taken in the united states, who is being put out of business because of this ban – which is a ban for health reasons, for chickens, and which is not relevant to these particular wild birds in the united states. they are legal, legitimate and do not pose health risks. why is the commissioner imposing this draconian measure on small businesses in europe?
last night parliament’s committee on foreign affairs adopted a critical report which notably urges turkey to ‘take concrete steps for the normalisation of bilateral relations with eu member cyprus’. the report warns that a lack of progress ‘will have serious implications for the negotiation process and could even bring it to a halt’. what is the commissioner’s view of this report and the likelihood that a lack of progress could halt talks? does the commissioner agree that as far as the european parliament is concerned there are still some harmful prejudices about turkey with turkophobes willing to seize upon any pretext to block the accession process?
commissioner, you spoke a moment ago of the stalemate in this situation. i tend to agree and perhaps there are also certain parallels with the position between transnistria and moldova, which we touched on yesterday in parliament. i visited north cyprus recently for the first time and found it enlightening to say the least. notwithstanding all the other issues, but bearing in mind the fact that the people of the north of cyprus voted for membership of the eu, could the eu not, at the very least, see its way forward to allowing direct flights to northern cyprus?
rapporteur. – mr president, i thank the commissioner for his words of welcome on this report. colleagues, 450 million people in our world live with a mental disorder. one in four of us will suffer from one during our lifetime; 58 000 people in europe commit suicide every year and ten times that number try to. more people die needlessly from suicide than from road accidents or aids. three in every hundred of us will have depression; one in three of us going to our family doctor will have a mental health problem, but only one in six of us will be diagnosed as such. that does not mean that two out of three of us will have good mental health: it means that we may not need, may not seek, or may not be offered treatment. it may mean that we are given inappropriate treatment with drugs, therapies, institutions and laws that at best may do no harm, and at worst may lead to physical and psychological damage. it almost certainly means that we are labelled, patronised, despised, feared and to a greater or lesser extent segregated in society, within our family, at work, at play and even within our health and social services. in a perverse reversal, we can hide but we cannot run. we cannot perform, we cannot contribute to society as we would wish, we cannot lead full and fulfilling lives, as we would want. it also means that we have barely scratched the surface of creating a policy to promote mental wellbeing among our citizens from their early years, through the adult years of work and leisure and into old age and the years of increasing frailty. that is why i welcome what has been achieved, firstly by a sequence of council presidencies – starting and culminating now with the finnish presidency – and by the commission, where this green paper was drafted and will be driven through to active policy-making in the coming months. when as a child i first came across mental illness, it was something you did not talk about. when i first came across mental health policy it had not progressed far from the locks, bolts, restraint garments, isolation rooms, powers to detain, forcible administration of drugs and so on – or so it seemed. in fact mental health policy has been on the move since the 1960s, with more humane surroundings, treatments and therapies. patients have been on the move too, going into community housing or back to their own homes. the public has not always liked that. no longer ‘out of sight, out of mind’, it became ‘out of his or her mind and living next door to me and my children’. if modern, humane mental health policy is to work, it must have a spectrum of care and a range of health and social services, housing, training, transport and other services working in partnership. it must have trust between professionals, patients and families, and it needs our resources. to get those it needs political awareness, and that needs public consent and professional support. a service that does not gain professional, public and political support fails patients and their families doubly. it fails to treat and care adequately and it prompts a downward spiral of public confidence and so reinforces stigma. stigma is rampant in all our countries. it is a human rights abuse. it is unintentional, borne out of fear and ignorance, but just as damaging to the individual as any other form of abuse. we all contribute to the stigmatisation of people who, if they had a physical problem, would receive our sympathy and support. however, with mental illness we so often turn away and hope that someone else will cope. living with mental illness is tough enough without adding to the burden of illness the pain of rejection and stigma. and so we must listen to patients and service users. they should be our partners and not just our patients. we have legislated against discrimination for people with disabilities. perhaps we need to do so for people with mental health problems – both those in hospital and those in the community. my report is about these things. it points the way forward to some of the changes we need. if the public believes, they will put pressure on governments, and those governments will then invest in good services. that makes public belief possible. we know that neuro-psychiatric disorders are responsible for a third of disabilities, 15% of in-patient costs, a quarter of drugs costs, half the caseload of social workers and so forth. i want to be sure that if i, my wife or a member of my family has this problem in due course, as one of us is quite likely to, then i want a system in which they are hugged rather than rejected, loved rather than forgotten; a system in which it is not the case that they do not know people or do not know where they are; a system in which they are not within blank, cold, alien walls. i would want them to have hope and not self-fulfilling despair. if we understand that it could be any of us – and it will be many of us – then we will seek a better service. in my report i quote those words of stefan heym from alexanderplatz in 1989 east berlin:wir haben in diesen letzten wochen unsere sprachlosigkeit überwunden und sind jetzt dabei, den aufrechten gang zu erlernen. (in these last weeks we have regained our power of speech and learnt once more to walk with our heads held high.) the stigma of mental health is as repressive a regime as east germany was. it stills our tongue, makes us hide our head and our task is to make sure that people with mental health disorders will, with our help, find their voices once again, their dignity, their self-respect and walk once more with their heads held high. (applause)
mr president, i too should like to congratulate mr bowis on his excellent report. i should also like to say that it is not just a gender issue: there is certainly a very strong racial perspective as well that is attached to mental health and mental illness. at least we are past the age where sexual orientation was seen as a mental disorder, but there is still, as others have said, a tremendous amount of work to be done. as mr bowis himself pointed out, we have only just begun to scratch the surface in terms of what we would call promoting mental wellbeing. the world health organisation describes mental health as a state of wellbeing in which the individual realises his or her abilities, can cope with the normal stresses of life, can work productively and fruitfully and is able to make a contribution to his or her community. that has enormous implications for the social inclusion policies that we pursue and, as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i want to pick up – as others have done – on the world of work, focusing in particular on paragraph 27 of the report. it is not just about the influence of mental health on employment, but the effect of employment on mental health. as others have said, stress is potentially the largest cause of time off work. the bilbao agency has done a lot of work on that. self-reported work-related stress, depression or anxiety accounted in the uk recently for nearly 13 million lost working days in one year. if that had been the result of physical injury at the workplace there would have been an enormous outcry. many companies do not have a policy for dealing with stress. many managers cannot recognise it in themselves and cannot manage it in others. so we need to develop training there, and we need to have a culture at work where you can admit to stress, have it dealt with seriously and work with working practices that promote mental wellbeing.
author. – mr president, i should like to thank mr lagendijk, our rapporteur, for raising this very timely question. it is true that we came away from pristina in june pretty concerned about the eu’s capacity to take on its future enhanced role in kosovo and to see it through, because if we look at another territory where the international community took on state-building and reconstruction responsibilities – i.e. afghanistan – we see incipient failure. we need to learn from this experience that the commitment needs to be full, well-planned and consistent and not half-hearted and under-funded. even more so in the future, kosovo will be an expensive commitment for the eu, but the alternative of chaos, ethnic conflict and crime is even more expensive. we must treat kosovo as the future eu member that it is. the second lesson – and we hardly need to learn it from afghanistan or iraq, because it is so obvious – is: ‘it’s the economy, stupid!’ the most important challenge in kosovo is the massive unemployment. obviously, status, constitutional issues and administrative capacity have to be sorted out and the security and policing challenges are acute. however, social and economic development is the vital key to peace and coexistence. in this context, education, agricultural development, visa facilitation or, ideally, liberalisation, must be at the top of the agenda. it is important to show serbs and other minorities, as well as kosovar albanians, that they will be better off in the future. in that connection, i should like to mention an idea. it is not an original idea, but one borrowed from others, who have suggested creating an international university in mitrovica along the lines of the south-east european university in tetovo. this is an excellent idea and i hope that we can find some rich donor who might be able to take it forward in what are likely to be the two municipalities of the town. that could instigate economic development in the north of kosovo. my final point, very briefly, is that there have been concerns in the context of extraordinary rendition. the former council of europe commissioner for human rights, mr gil-robles, said that some time in around 2002 or 2003 he saw detainees – prisoners – in guantánamo-type orange jumpsuits, apparently detained by kfor, but was not able to pursue the matter. indeed, the council of europe committee on torture has not been allowed access to prisoners in kosovo. this is unacceptable when a territory is under the stewardship of an international community that purports to uphold human rights. i hope that in future the eu will ensure that there is no doubt about kosovo’s compliance with international humanitarian and human rights law.
rapporteur. – mr president, that is acceptable.
rapporteur. – mr president, that is also acceptable.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the fisheries agreement between the ec and the union of the comoros. the last time we voted on this subject some years ago i inserted an amendment asking for joint action between the ec and the union of the comoros to protect that ‘fish out of time’, the coelacanth, which, although thought to have been extinct for tens of millions of years, was rediscovered in deep water off the comoros in the 1940s. as far as i am aware, little was done. i hope this time around real attempts will be made to protect this unique remnant of the world’s deep time.
in writing. mr president, these fisheries agreements do little more than export our own disastrous policies to the developing world. they are only justifiable in the looking glass world of the common fisheries policy, a policy which has done so much damage to fishing communities, fish stocks and the wider environment within our own waters. accordingly i have voted against this report.
in writing. there are many points conservative meps oppose in this report, such as references to tax coordination and to the constitution - which is why i requested separate roll-calls on these paragraphs to make our position crystal clear. it would have been easy to vote against the whole report because of these points alone. however on the plus-side, we had worked hard to include references to the lisbon agenda, the completion of the internal market, and the involvement of national parliaments: this is the first time that such points have been accepted within such a social affairs report. the key to our final vote was the need for reform. my amendment 1 spelled this out specifically and was readily embraced by colleagues within the epp-ed group. in return for our agreement to abstain at the end rather than voting against, the socialists agreed to let this amendment pass. the prize has been formal recognition for the very first time by the majority of meps that the european social model does indeed need to be reformed. this is a real achievement, led by the uk conservatives. the challenge now is for us to work together to make this happen.
in writing. the verts/ale group supported the final report today on the european social model not because the report is perfect but because it sets down an important marker for parliament on the importance of the social dimension of eu development. we regret the continuing emphasis on economic growth without regard to the quality and effect of that growth. the lisbon process is, for my group, not the only way forward as it takes insufficient account of the importance of the social dimension in its widest sense – it is not only about employment but about the voluntary and social part of our lives. we regret that the framework directive for services of general interest did not gain majority support: we do need to find a way to differentiate core essential services provided for the public good from the services we choose as individuals. however, the report recognises the need for any reform of social systems to be non-regressive and to meet essential needs: a core income is essential to that goal. we hope that this report will be a valuable tool in our discussions with the council and commission and that other legislation will protect, not undermine, social europe.
in writing. in voting for the de rossa and silva peneda report on a european social model for the future, labour meps are expressing support for social and economic policies which generate employment, productivity and fairness at work. labour meps analyse each legislative proposal on a case-by-case basis in relation to their impact on uk business and the workforce. nothing in our voting for the de rossa report runs counter to this approach. specifically, labour meps believe firmly that taxation policy is a matter for individual member states and we have voted accordingly in the de rossa and silva peneda report.
in writing. the european social model is unique. in the eu we can balance the single market with social justice. we must do all that we can to keep this balance.
in writing. mr president, i warmly congratulate our rapporteur on this report, which highlights often painful lack of progress in dealing with mental health issues across the union. too often mental health is the cinderella of our health services, yet the implications of poor mental health are a drain on all resources as well as personally disastrous. i welcome the conclusions of this report and am very happy to support them.
in writing. mental health has for too long been ignored and neglected. the report today, although an own-initiative report, allows mental health to be placed on the european political agenda. i welcome this debate.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendment, which would have allowed acp countries to opt out of fisheries agreements, if they considered such agreements to be harmful to their interests. simplification of the common fisheries policy is an attractive notion, given the centralised, cumbersome and often secretive processes under which management decisions are made. my view, and that of many scots, is that the cfp should be concerned with the market in fisheries products, but that control and management of the resource and of catching opportunities should be returned to scotland.
in writing. mr president, the common fisheries policy has done so much damage to fishing communities, fish stocks and the wider environment within our own waters it is incapable of meaningful reform and should be scrapped wholesale. however, even minimal progress remains progress and this report does contain some useful suggestions, so i have supported the report while protesting that it does not go nearly far enough.
in writing. although i believe more work needs to be conducted on third-party fish agreements, i cannot on this occasion support amendments 1 and 2. both amendments go outside the objective of the action plan.
in writing. mr president, these fisheries agreements do little more than export our own disastrous policies to the developing world. they are only justifiable in the looking glass world of the common fisheries policy, a policy which has done so much damage to fishing communities, fish stocks and the wider environment within our own waters. accordingly i have voted against this report.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this summer’s conflict has claimed the lives of over 1000 people, the vast majority of whom were innocent civilians. it has reduced much of lebanon to rubble. if the situation teaches us nothing else, it must teach us to look forward, rather than back. we should waste no time in deploying the 7000 troops that the union has pledged to unifil to stabilise the situation in southern lebanon, to cut off the flow of arms and to support the humanitarian effort. we must, however, clarify unifil’s mandate to turn the un resolutions into reality on the ground. and of course we must go further. we must speak with one voice. we must, in the short term, demand the immediate lifting of israel’s air and sea blockade of lebanon. we must demand the lifting of the blockade of gaza and we must help to establish an effective palestinian government. in the medium term, while condemning terrorist acts we must bring hizbollah and hamas in from the cold and engage them in a dialogue for the establishment of a democratic framework. we must set up an independent inquiry into the civilian deaths caused by all sides in the recent conflict and, as kofi annan has pointed out, it will not be through the barrel of a gun, but thanks to dialogue and compromise that hizbollah will put down their weapons and negotiate a long-term solution. we have long-term tasks too. if we are to raise a new generation that is not steeped in fear and intolerance, we must build institutions that will ensure peace in the long term. when he was president of the european commission, romano prodi talked about setting up a euro-arab development bank, jointly financed and managed by both sides. we must look, too, at a security organisation along the lines of mr fogh rasmussen’s proposed conference on security and cooperation in the mediterranean, which mr schulz has quoted. we must look at how we can tie in, with a proper immigration policy, all of the countries of the mediterranean basin. and we must oversee all of this through the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly in which you, mr president, have invested so much political – and no little financial – capital. let us learn from einstein when he told us that peace cannot be kept by force, only achieved through understanding. mr tuomioja, you spoke about the european union’s remarkable achievement and its major success. i commend the work you have done, but let us not exaggerate. it is a crisis that has driven the european union to the position it is in, though something michel barnier has called the reflexe européen. the union does not have the european constitution that it needs and which would have equipped it far better to deal with this situation. we are deploying european forces but this is not an eu force, even if – thank heavens – it is a coalition of the coherent. in terms of democratic decision-making we are running on a wing and a prayer. after your meeting in lappeenranta on 25 august, mr solana said that this was the most important decision taken by the eu for many years. if that is so, then why is mr solana not here, telling us about it and telling us about the conditions surrounding this conflict? he has a mandate, but of what kind? (applause) when we asked we were told that the rules of engagement for the forces were: ‘a matter strictly between the united nations and the troop contributors’. we were told, therefore, that this was not a european matter. it is absurd that mr solana is not here to talk to us about the rules of engagement for this conflict! the danger is this: the european public at large believe that europe has responded to the crisis. if things go wrong and we have large numbers of young men coming back home in body bags, people will want to know who in europe is responsible. somebody will have to take the political responsibility. (applause)please, president-in-office of the council, get europe’s common foreign and security policy together so that we are not faced with that kind of situation. in conclusion, we should give two cheers for europe: one for louis michel’s rapid action and one for romano prodi’s courage in coordinating our efforts to deal with this problem. we should thank the commission, the finnish presidency and cyprus – a new member state – for the tremendous help it has given. we should also thank turkey for having the courage to help us in committing troops. (applause)however, we still run the risk of insistence on national sovereignty resulting in global anarchy. (applause)
mr president, eyes have understandably been on the slaughter in lebanon. however, we must not allow the world to forget the crimes that are being committed in gaza, which has effectively been turned into a prison for palestinians. let us not forget that since the end of june, over 200 palestinians – at least 44 of them children – have been killed; nor forget that thousands more have been forced to flee their homes; nor forget that when we talk about the israeli prisoners, who must indeed be freed, there are also 9 000 palestinian prisoners who remain in israeli prisons, over half of whom are detained without trial; nor forget that elected hamas parliamentarians remain under arrest. it is clear that no long-term peace in the middle east is possible until we see an end to the israeli occupation of palestine. there has been much hand-wringing in this chamber today, saying, ‘if only there were something more we could do as the eu’. we beg the israeli authorities to unblock the palestinian revenues that are being withheld; we plead with them to open the border crossings; we beg for an end to the air and sea blockade; we plead with them not to start building yet more illegal settlements; yet nothing really changes. i believe that the time is long overdue to echo the recommendation of the heads of the eu mission in jerusalem and call for the suspension of the eu-israel association agreement on the grounds of human rights abuses, as provided for by article 2 of that agreement. if we, as the eu, do not take ourselves and our agreements seriously, then we cannot be surprised if others do not either. madam commissioner, you said our credibility is at stake. yes, it is. as the eu, we have serious influence in the middle east and we should be using it to greater effect.
mr president, we have heard several times during this debate of the need for a negotiated settlement and a peace process. but with whom do we negotiate and on what basis? the war in lebanon was caused by hizbollah kidnapping israeli soldiers which, unsurprisingly, triggered retaliation by the israelis and the escalating conflict we have witnessed. the leader of hizbollah, sayyed hassan nasrallah, said that he would not have ordered the troops’ capture and kidnapping if he had known that it would lead to full-scale war. what did he expect? those are not the words of a political leader but of a political gangster and terrorist. he ordered the kidnappings because he thought he might get away with it. he did not, but he got a war that he could blame on the israelis anyway. the palestinians have elected a terrorist government under hamas and the lebanese have two hizbollah terrorist representatives in their government. these decisions have consequences for the palestinians and the lebanese, as we have seen. how does the european union react to this? by sending the protagonists more money: eur 435 million so far this year to palestine and eur 42 million to lebanon. we should let the hamas and hizbollah ministers in question renounce their intentions to drive the israelis into the sea before we consider sending their governments aid. otherwise such payments amount to nothing more than financing terrorism.
mr president, i do not endorse every act of israel, but i am in no doubt that in the recent conflict it was not the aggressor and was, as a sovereign state, fully entitled to defend itself against sustained and murderous rocket attacks by hizbollah. the fact that hizbollah, supplied by iran and syria, was able to act as it did while part of the government of lebanon illustrates the folly of ever admitting to government any terrorist-orientated organisation, be it in lebanon, palestine or, indeed, in my own northern ireland. in israel, the level of sustained assault was such that a powerful response was necessary. now, a major challenge for the future is to disarm hizbollah. i trust that critical part of the mandate will not be dodged or diluted; otherwise, we merely store up more trouble for the future. let us learn some lessons and let us address that critical part of the mandate.
mr president, the council of ministers’ failure to call for an immediate ceasefire meant we stood back and let the infrastructure of lebanon be destroyed and led to more than one thousand civilian deaths both in lebanon and israel, not to mention the cluster bombs which will lead to even more. i lay that failure directly at the door of the british government, and tony blair in particular. what has he achieved with his dog-like devotion to george bush? apart from wanton destruction of property and life, it has led to further alienation of the muslim community. he has the nerve to say that he does not believe it will lead to further terrorist attacks. if i am angry – and people like me are angry – over iraq and now lebanon, what sort of ammunition does it give to people intent on the indoctrination of alienated young muslims? nothing, i repeat nothing, excuses terrorist acts, but tony blair must wake up to the fact that his actions make him culpable.
mr president, i will start by quoting an article by gideon levy published in haaretz on 3 september 2006. he says, ‘gaza has been reoccupied. the world must know this (...). it is in its worst condition, ever. since (...) the outbreak of the lebanon war, the israeli defence forces have been rampaging through gaza – there’s no other word to describe it – killing and demolishing, bombing and shelling, indiscriminately.‘ nobody thinks about setting up a commission of inquiry; the issue isn’t even on the agenda. nobody asks why it is being done and who decided to do it. but under the cover of the darkness of the lebanon war, the idf returned to its old practices in gaza as if there had been no disengagement.’ i turn now to the war in lebanon. on this, are our hands clean? did our council of ministers not call for a cessation of hostilities rather than a ceasefire? did they not know that only a bloodbath could only ever ensue as a result? on this, i accept my country’s responsibility. is it really enough to send blankets and bandages after facilitating the supply of arms that caused the injuries in the first place? was it completely unforeseeable that israel would undertake actions against international law by undertaking a policy of collective punishment? was it really that unimaginable that israel would seize this as an opportunity to march back into gaza? many colleagues speak of terror, but is it not the case that the hand of extremists has been considerably ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the recent conflict between israel and hizbollah is a tragedy for israel and the people of lebanon. for some time, many of us in this house have been campaigning for the eu to declare hizbollah a terrorist organisation. it is clear that hizbollah seriously miscalculated the scale of the retribution when it decided to kill eight soldiers and kidnap two from northern israel. hassan nasrallah, its leader, has admitted as much. hizbollah has a lot of explaining to do as to why its deliberate provocation has caused so much damage to lebanese infrastructure, with the deaths of so many lebanese civilians. this is partly explained by hizbollah’s outrageous tactic of using human shields to launch its rockets from civilian-populated areas. israel also seems to have made the mistake of believing that air power alone was sufficient to dislodge hizbollah, whereas what was required were more boots on the ground. clearly, israeli intelligence underestimated hizbollah’s training and equipment, in particular high-tech russian anti-tank and anti-ship weapons. russia must now explain how its weapons ended up in the hands of an islamist fundamentalist militia. my main concern now following un security council resolution 1701 relates to who is finally going to disarm hizbollah. madam commissioner, what safeguards are in place to prevent the millions of euros of eu aid and reconstruction money from being diverted to hizbollah through one of its so-called charities? we remember in the past all the allegations of graft when there was direct eu budgetary aid to the palestinian authority under arafat. i also want to know what will prevent troops from muslim countries like malaysia and bangladesh, which do not recognise the state of israel, from turning a blind eye to the rearmament of hizbollah. lastly, i believe the time has now come under the roadmap for peace to prise brutal but rational and secular syria away from theocratic, fundamentalist iran. the eu could offer significant trade and aid benefits to syria to bring it back to the negotiating table with israel.
mr president, i should like to begin by responding to the last speech. i wonder what muslims in britain and across europe think when the british conservatives say that troops from muslim countries cannot be relied upon to do their job in a united nations force? like others speaking in this debate, i believe that further crises in lebanon and elsewhere in the region can only be averted by refocusing the debate on a just peace between israel and the palestinian people. whilst the conflict was continuing in lebanon, international attention ignored the rockets fired from gaza and the 250 air strikes, 1000 artillery shells and over 200 killings inflicted on its people. was it justifiable to cut off electricity to half of the inhabitants of gaza, to close nearly every school, and even to stop fishermen from taking to their boats? the un has described gaza as a time bomb whose people are living in a cage. sometimes a moment of crisis brings new fluidity: hizbollah’s statement conceding it had neither planned nor anticipated the conflict, the prisoners’ initiative, the possible national unity government for palestine and the recognition by israeli politicians and public alike of the failings of unilateralism must presage a diplomatic drive to return to a negotiated solution. today we have a map for the road but no one in the car. europe, which has done so much in terms both of humanitarian aid to lebanon and in evacuating innocent people and committing peacekeeping troops, must now relentlessly pursue that political dialogue. we need new dialogue with the arab world to support un resolutions and recognise not just election results but also their consequences. we need to use intermediaries, such as turkey, to help with that dialogue and speed up temporary assistance to the palestinian people.
mr president, in recent weeks, amid the appalling loss of life and humanitarian misery in the middle east, it has been difficult to see any shaft of light. at least the moderate arab states have now witnessed the catastrophe that can so easily be provoked by organisations such as hizbollah, and lebanon has seen the effect of tolerating a state within a state. perhaps now there can be more sympathy for israel’s concern to ensure that palestine is not entrenched as another terrorist state and a base for perpetual war against the israeli people. it would be a tragic wasted opportunity if the reinforced unifil merely became a bystander while hizbollah prepares for its next attacks in the months and years ahead. if there is not the international resolve to disarm hizbollah – and that is a pity – then at least there should be a requirement to monitor and report on hizbollah’s activities. the council should encourage member states to make representations to this effect at the united nations. resolution 1701 mandates unifil to assist the government of lebanon to secure its borders. we would encourage the lebanese government to take robust action in this field.
i regret that the european council did not call for an immediate ceasefire after the outbreak of hostilities by israel on lebanon. israel’s action was disproportionate. israel should now be asked to help rebuild lebanon on the basis of ‘the destroyer pays’. there should be a committee of inquiry on war crimes and the eu should revisit its economic and military cooperation with israel. we should also be aware and condemn the fact that the conflict in lebanon was used as cover for even more intensive and brutal oppression of the palestinian people. the eu must work for a peaceful and just settlement to the disputes in the middle east, particularly by pressing for a secure and independent palestinian state.
thank you, president-in-office, for that very full answer and for your honesty, particularly on the question of temporary agency workers. you will be aware of our frustration in this house, particularly with regard to the working time directive, and are right to say that this has been discussed in previous presidencies. however, i would like to ask you a very frank question: what is different about the finnish presidency, and can you get the members of the council together and broker a deal in the interests of working people? can you give a commitment today that every effort will be made to take the working time directive forward and to put the temporary agency workers directive on the agenda?
in his supplementary question mr moraes referred to the interests of working people. is the council aware of some research concerning large european countries published in the financial times in recent days, which shows that the majority of working people in all those countries, with the possible exception of spain, want more flexibility in their working hours, not less? will the council take this into account when trying to broker a deal?
i just wondered how the council expects the eu to meet the increasing challenge of illegal entry and the need for returns when in its draft budget for 2007, and compared to the commission’s bid, it has actually cut the appropriations for frontex, the borders agency to which the minister referred several times, and the european return fund. i hope parliament will be able to restore these cuts, but how can these be priorities when the council is not following through on the financial commitments?
i am very pleased that the minister has said that there is further legislation coming forward on article 13 regarding age. can the minister assure us that elder abuse will be given appropriate attention by member states in the national action plans on health and long-term care? will the minister urge the council and the commission to release any results on elder abuse across member states, so that we can have an exchange of best practice?
i wonder if the council would agree that this specific case highlights a more general problem that the united states expects europe to cooperate with it on judicial matters, but when europe asks the untied states for cooperation, that country is much less willing to give it? will the council have a debate among its members to discuss how it might put more pressure on the united states to cooperate with the european union on judicial matters?
president of the council. mr president, it is of course a challenging situation where these matters are not clearly regulated in national legislation, but the position adopted by the council is that the key condition for funding is a careful ethical assessment of each project proposal and the respect of the laws of the member states. it is therefore important to note that this individual decision and decision is not intended to create pan-european bioethics rules but to decide on a clearly more limited matter, namely the type of stem cell projects that can receive funding from this community programme.
i am very glad that you have made it clear that it is up to the legislation of the member state concerned as to whether it can undertake research. this is purely related to the funding of it. i should be interested if the president-in-office could tell us what opportunities she sees in the ability to undertake stem cell research and to fund it at a european level.
president of the council. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new type of research programme, the european research area, which is a very important part of the european research area.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of citizens abroad is not the responsibility of the council, but of the member states. nor has the council discussed the number of europeans in guantanamo bay.
president of the council. mr president, guantanamo bay is of course still a serious concern, but the european union very much welcomes president bush's announcement that he is willing to close guantanamo bay once these practical issues have been resolved, and i hope that this will continue.
on 29 june, the us supreme court ruled that military tribunals were illegal. at 7.45 p.m. cet, president bush is due to make an announcement that he is seeking to change the law to make it possible to try guantánamo bay prisoners – including eu citizens – by military tribunal. if he makes that announcement – which i believe he will – can the council protest in the strongest possible terms about this travesty of justice, as a matter of urgency?
president of the council. the european union has repeatedly stated that the treatment of prisoners of war must be in accordance with the provisions of the geneva convention, the rules of customary international humanitarian law and respect for human rights. the informal meeting of foreign ministers in klosterneuburg last spring also considered that the prison camp at guantanamo bay should be closed as soon as possible, so the union has indeed expressed its position on this matter.
i do not think i have heard such a feeble statement as ‘the council is not responsible for the protection of eu citizens abroad, that is just up to the member states’. we take international action to try to protect the citizens of other member states, for instance in the balkans, but we will not have any joint action to protect our own citizens. does the president-in-office not agree that if the eu had said way back in 2002 that it was unacceptable for our citizens to be detained without charge or trial in guantánamo, then they might all be free by now, or put on trial and convicted if that was what should happen to them?
president of the council. mr president, as the representative of the council, it is important for the presidency to remain within the limits of the council's powers. any discussions which member states may have had bilaterally on the protection of their own nationals are a matter for member states. it should also be noted that the european union has raised the issue of guantanamo on several occasions in its discussions with the united states, and these discussions will continue.
president of the council. the negotiations on the framework decision in the council have been held up, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, because at least one member state has had serious reservations about the text as it stood in 2004. however, as the member state concerned has recently lifted the general authorisation, the finnish presidency intends to bring the matter to the attention of the relevant working parties in close cooperation with the incoming german presidency in order to reach a framework decision as soon as possible. the finnish presidency does not have any proposals on the list of crimes of intolerance related to homophobia, to which the honourable member refers in his question.
i am very grateful for that positive news, which is most welcome. but i am sorry that the minister feels that there are no proposals on homophobic hate crime. does she not think that the eu really ought to be tackling the challenges of both racism and homophobia in their acute form of violence and hatred across europe? we are becoming years out of date with the challenges that we are meeting, not least because of the third-pillar problems of the veto in the council to which she had referred. will you also make progress as regards the passerelle in bringing the third pillar – the intergovernmental part – into community competence so that we can be more effective and democratic?
president of the council. i agree with the honourable member that the european union must try to tackle the main challenges, but of course it must take a step at a time and unfortunately it cannot tackle all the challenges at once. the aim is to prepare a follow-up seminar on the framework decision itself for the expert seminar in june, after which this proposal for a framework decision can certainly be considered for the working group. as regards the question raised by the rapporteur in his supplementary question, as has already been stated here in parliament, finland is actively exploring, during its presidency, the possibilities of strengthening decisionmaking and thereby joint action in the field of justice and home affairs.
i am delighted that the one member state's objection has been lifted to the adoption of the framework decision. will the presidency urge the coreper working group to expedite their work on this matter so that we can get this adopted as soon as possible? would the council further agree that the adoption of such a framework decision would send a positive signal to our ethnic minorities in the european union, particularly the muslims, who feel under a lot of pressure in our continent at the moment?
president of the council. mr president, the fact that progress has been made in the preparation of the framework decision does not mean that the framework decision is now without problems, but the differences in freedom of expression, the principle of legality and the legal systems of the member states still raise open questions in this respect. the discussions so far have led to the drafting of a more detailed proposal for a framework decision, which, however, is unlikely to be ready before the next presidency is in place.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has repeatedly expressed its concern about the situation of women in iran. in its resolution on the human rights situation in iran last december, which was also supported by the union, the un general assembly expressed serious concern at the continuing discrimination and other human rights violations, including systematic discrimination against women and girls in law and in practice. the council regrets the deterioration of the human rights situation in iran. at its meeting on 20 march 2006, the council condemned the crackdown on a peaceful demonstration on international women's day. at its meeting on 15 may, the council expressed concern at the increase in executions, arbitrary arrests, tightening restrictions on access to information and the increase in violations of freedom of expression and religion. the council referred in particular to intimidation and harassment of human rights defenders, lawyers and minority groups. at its meeting on 17 july, the council drew particular attention to the continued violations of freedom of expression and association, including the violent dispersal of a peaceful demonstration on 12 june calling for an end to legal discrimination against women. the council is therefore aware of the incidents which have occurred in connection with the recent demonstrations. the eu will continue to raise human rights issues, including women's rights, both directly with iran and in international fora. the union intends to express its concern in both confidential and public forums. during the finnish presidency, the eu has already issued three statements on the human rights situation in iran. on 24 august, following the death of student activist akbar mohammadi in evin prison, the presidency expressed the eu's grave concern at the harsh treatment of dissidents, opposition leaders, student activists and all human rights defenders in iranian prisons. in a statement issued at the end of july, the presidency expressed the union's grave concern at the deterioration of the situation of freedom of expression and human rights defenders in iran. this statement specifically mentioned abdolfattah soltani, a prominent human rights lawyer who has been sentenced to five years in prison. the european parliament also called on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. on 10 july, a statement was issued by the presidency expressing the european union's concern at the continued detention of iranian academic ramin jahanbeglu. the council continued its efforts to organise an eu-iran session within the framework of the human rights dialogue launched in december 2002. the meeting would provide an opportunity for both sides to discuss all human rights concerns.
president of the council. mr president, as i said, the council is very concerned that the situation in many sectors seems to be deteriorating. we have supported and continue to support women's organisations, at least politically, by continuously raising these human rights issues and current problems both in direct contacts and in international forums. we have also made several demarches to the iranian authorities to ask for further clarification of the human rights violations in the country.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the procedure for ratifying any treaty, including the treaty of accession of new member states, is a matter for each member state to decide. the council cannot therefore comment on the ratification procedure, nor should it.
if the council says it is inappropriate to comment in any way, it is probably difficult. however, i wonder if i can tease something out from the council, perhaps in a broader sense. does the minister not feel that the mood perhaps changed in europe after the negative referendums in france and the netherlands, and that some people in certain countries have a fear of enlarging the european union and perhaps see that calling a referendum would put a block on any future enlargement?
president of the council. mr president, at least in that sense the mood has not changed and we are very pleased that the conclusions of the european council in june, which also dealt with the reception capacity of the union, clearly stated that reception capacity is not a new criterion to be imposed on the applicant countries but is a matter in itself which must also be taken into account within the european union. the finnish presidency is due to hold a thorough debate on all aspects of enlargement at the european council in december, and we will certainly then have a better idea of the mood in the member states on this issue.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council informs the honourable member that in may 2006 the counter-terrorism coordinator drew up a comprehensive report on the eu's action in the fight against terrorism, including in the field of external relations. the report is a response to the european council's request for a semiannual report on the implementation of the action plan on combating terrorism, adopted in june 2004 and last revised in february 2006. the report summarises progress since december 2005. the european union's policy on combating terrorism is defined in the european union's counter-terrorism strategy adopted last december. the recent events in london have made it clear that there is a need to further strengthen cooperation between terrorism and aviation security experts. the ministers for justice and home affairs will continue these discussions at the informal council meeting in tampere.
president of the council. mr president, this is precisely the cooperation and coordination that we want to strengthen as soon as possible. the finnish presidency will update both the counter-terrorism strategy and the related action plan. and as i mentioned, it has become clear that there is a need for further intensified cooperation between terrorism and aviation security experts. another example concerns liquid explosives. in future, law enforcement authorities in the member states will pay particular attention to this issue, among other things, in their various expert meetings.
on the subject of combating international terrorism, can the council tell us what steps it took to encourage the return of three ira members convicted of international terrorism in colombia, who later took refuge in a member state of the eu – namely ireland – and continue to enjoy sanctuary there? is it not clear that the eu undermines its credibility as regards taking a stand on international terrorism if it acquiesces in member states harbouring wanted and convicted international terrorists?
president of the council. mr president, it is of course important that the european union should be able to act coherently in all its activities, also in order to preserve credibility and, above all, efficiency. perhaps increased cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs, and also more effective decision-making, will make it possible to respond even better to this challenge of coherence.
i hope the minister will bear in mind that the current restrictions on travel and the security measures at british airports are causing enormous disruption to normal commercial and economic life. i hope the presidency will bear in mind, when coming to any concerted position at a european level, that it must make sure that economic and commercial life is able to continue.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, there is much we can agree with in mr belder’s report. we agree that china needs to shoulder a growing international responsibility because of its status as a permanent member of the security council and now as the world’s fourth largest economy. we agree with the importance of china’s role in africa and the middle east. we need to have a dialogue with china over the situation in north korea, where it has been playing an important role chairing the six-party talks; over iran, where china can play a role in trying to find a solution to the nuclear crisis; and over darfur, where china, because of its oil interests, has to date been resisting the deployment of un forces. we look forward to the establishment of an eu-china strategic partnership and we certainly support the need for the abolition of the death penalty – something we urge in all countries, including japan, the republic of korea and the united states. we need to see continued improvement in human rights. however, unfortunately, in total, the report suffers from both a lack of balance and the sins of omission. i thought they were sins of omission, but in his opening speech mr belder has made it clear that the reason that the one-china policy is not in the report is not because he has forgotten, but he is actually in favour of changing it. i hope that those in the christian democrat group who still support it will not go along with that, but will support our amendment. we have two lines on the plight of 150 million migrant workers – more than 10% of china’s population, one sentence on free trade unions and yet there are five paragraphs on a religious minority that is a hundred times smaller. the trouble is that mr belder cannot see the wood for the trees. yes, of course, we need to stand up for all the oppressed groups, but where is the rapporteur’s sense of proportion? equally, it is right to believe some of the bad things we are told about china, but it is not right to believe all of them, without the evidence necessary. there are areas in which we tread very much on the committee on international trade’s territory, but the report takes a much more protectionist line than that committee’s recent report. the question of market economy status is dismissed very easily, yet 40 countries in the world have already granted market economy status to china – most recently the republic of korea in november 2005. i respect the european parliament’s view on the embargo, but here we are insisting that all our partnership countries follow an embargo that puts china in the same situation as burma and zimbabwe – which i consider personally to be rather worse in terms of their oppression and discrimination – while, at the same time, asking the chinese to assist us in putting pressure on those two countries that we say are exactly the same as china. in paragraph 4, we note that china will have at its disposal eur 1 billion in farm reserves by the end of 2006. the accuracy of the report is fine; it is only one thousand times wrong: it is actually a trillion and not a billion and yet nobody has noticed; yet this is a wonderfully accurate report that everybody is endorsing. nowhere do we complain that china holds too few euros – rather than dollars – or say that china should continue to work with the european union on the six-party talks. we do not mention the fact that china’s concern about the yasukuni shrine is reflected in the recently revealed fact that the japanese emperor refused to visit it once class-a war criminals were included there. finally, as the commissioner said, we want engagement and partnership, not confrontation and containment. i am afraid the wrong message comes from this report.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, we must congratulate the people of china on the progress they have made since the death of the tyrant mao zedong 30 years ago. mao’s legacy of murder, oppression, suffering, misery, starvation and death is in a league of its own. he brought china to its knees. his instrument for enforcing this tyranny was, of course, the chinese communist party, which still governs china. the recognition by mao’s successor deng xiao ping and his successors of some capitalist and free market realities has enabled china to progress economically to the point it has reached today. however, at the heart of the chinese economic phenomenon lies an unresolved contradiction: china’s new-found prosperity is based on capitalist principles applied by the chinese communist party, which is the only political party in china. we have the curious spectacle of a communist party that no longer believes in communism applying capitalist ideas that it is not supposed to believe in. its only real belief is in ensuring its own survival, and the european union should not assist it in that aim by lending the kind of support that we have already seen. progress in china will inevitably be limited to the economic sphere for as long as the chinese communist party retains power. progress will not extend to freedom of association, freedom of speech and democracy. the chinese people are at long last beginning to reap some of the material benefits of the capitalist system. but when are they going to reap the benefits of the western democratic system? mr belder’s report rightly calls for political pluralism, an independent judiciary and for the eu not to lift its arms embargo until china properly addresses the situation regarding human rights and civil and political freedoms. mr belder calls for a consistent and coherent policy towards china. such a coherent policy should promote the interests of the chinese people, but not the interests of the chinese communist party. therefore, we should not lift the arms embargo and we should continue to recognise taiwan as an independent democratic state. unfortunately, i have to say that this report should be rejected because it advocates the further development of an eu strategy regarding relations with china. that would be bad for the chinese people. it would also restrict the political and economic decisions of the united kingdom and would dilute its influence and priorities. in the long run, that would also be bad for the chinese people.
mr president, i welcome this report not only because of its strong emphasis on the need for respect for human rights in china, but also because it echoes a key finding from my own report on eu economic relations with china, namely that the challenges posed by chinese competition are not limited to individual sectors like textiles or footwear, but are in fact systemic in nature and require a much more comprehensive approach. the commission response to date has been to say that europe simply has to move up the value-added chain; we simply have to diversify into higher-skilled, more specialised work. however, it is rather complacent and patronising to assume that europe and the west can keep a monopoly on innovation and high-tech solutions, while china simply does the manufacturing. chinese graduates are rightly, and to their credit, moving up the value-added chain and very soon we may need to face the possibility that there will be very little that europe can produce which china cannot produce more efficiently. the old colonialist assumption that the eu and the industrialised countries will keep the leading edge in knowledge-intensive industries, while developing countries focus on lower-skilled sectors, is now open to huge debate. our response to the challenges posed by china needs to include a thorough-going reassessment of the assumptions that have underpinned international trade theory until now. not for our own sake, necessarily, but certainly for the sake of many workers in developing countries, because the reality is that china’s deflationary pressure is already driving down wages right across the developing world, pushing global suppliers to reduce their workers’ rights and conditions in their bid to remain competitive at all costs, and forcing ilo conventions on freedom of association and bargaining on china is certainly part of the solution. however, i would also ask the commission to look much more closely at some of its assumptions about the winners and losers from the globalisation process.
mr president, china is the eu’s second-largest trading partner after the usa and, in economic terms, cannot be ignored. nevertheless, it remains a one-party communist dictatorship, sharing little in the way of common values with the eu, unlike india, which shares the west’s respect for democracy and human rights. one rare example of common interest is in the fight against international islamist terrorism, as china has problems with its own uighur muslim minorities. regrettably, however, in its quest for international support and, in particular, energy security, china has recently courted terrorist-sponsoring iran, and along with russia refused to impose un sanctions for iran’s continuing uranium enrichment programme. similarly, on the principle of non-interference, china has good relations with maverick regimes ranging from venezuela to zimbabwe. eu criticism of human rights in china is a good thing in itself. china has an appalling record of inappropriate and wide-scale use of the death penalty, persecution of religious and other minorities, such as unregistered christian groups, falun gong practitioners, tibetans, etc. however, its inhumane treatment of forced labour prisoners, including allegations of organ trafficking from those executed, poor standards of animal welfare and ignoring of ilo standards, also mean that it has an unfair competitive cost advantage in its exports, which will give rise to legitimate calls for more protectionism, when we should all be striving instead for global free trade. china is also obstructing full democracy in hong kong, dear to my heart as a british mep. in its recent anti-secession laws, china has also shown a belligerent attitude towards democratic taiwan, which serves as a model to completely rebut those who say that china is too big and chinese people too culturally different from the west to have democracy and high standards of human rights. therefore, we must maintain the arms embargo imposed by the eu. we cannot ignore china with its annual 11% growth rates, but we must also not shy away from criticising this very great country when it is appropriate.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to congratulate mrs fraga estévez on a very thoughtful report. it identifies the crucial issues and contributes considerably to the debate concerning them. of the amendments, we support only amendment 2, taking the view that amendments 1 and 3 are covered sufficiently by the existing text. clearly, whatever system we develop must be voluntary, in the sense that companies should be able to choose whether or not to become involved. it must also respect the need for other types of labelling, such as those concerning quality. that said, the report rightly draws attention to the difficulties of doing no more than establishing minimum criteria for voluntary schemes. fao standards mean that there must be a dimension of public ownership. this requires some form of independent monitoring at the very least. for these reasons, we believe that a single community labelling scheme merits fuller exploration. there are clearly potential advantages and disadvantages, but it should be possible to devise something which recognises different fisheries and products, but is neither cumbersome nor bureaucratic. whatever the eventual choice, speaking personally as a consumer rather than a legislator, i would make one plea for the use of some clearly identifiable common symbol, comparable to the ce mark currently employed, where we have harmonised rules concerning the health and safety of products. we hope that parliament will give overwhelming endorsement to the report and we look to speedy progress towards an appropriate outcome.
mr president, the principle of eco-labelling is sound. the danger is that when the eu bureaucracy and red tape get to work, the system that emerges could be unwieldy, excessively burdensome and very expensive. the fisheries sector already suffers enough from eu stipulations and restrictions. the most that the eu should do is to set minimum requirements to be met by voluntary eco-labelling schemes. thus i would have to part company from those who support a single community scheme with what is termed ‘ambitious criteria’, but which to the industry might seem more like excessive regulation. fundamentally, we are looking for good traceability and proof of sustainable practices. these can be secured by setting sensible and manageable minimum standards. we do not need another array of regulation or army of inspectors. we need sometimes to temper utopian environmental demands with business reality. whatever the eventual outcome, i hope that will be a hallmark of the scheme. nonetheless i congratulate the rapporteur on her thoughtful report. tonight i also take some pleasure in commiserating with our rapporteur. i refer of course to the fact that tonight my small country of northern ireland famously defeated the mighty football team of spain at windsor park in belfast. that is something that does not happen very often, but when it happens it is worthy of note! it comes on a good day: a day when northern ireland football supporters won the coveted brussels international supporters award for 2006, which is sponsored and supported by the eu. i shall end on that happy note.
mr president, first of all, i too should like to congratulate the rapporteur. as usual, she has produced an excellent report; we expect nothing else from her. labelling is the ‘in’ word at present, and if we must have it, let us keep it simple and clear. it should not be a further burden on the industry. i would also plead for input from those who have to implement this labelling to make sure that it is clear and transparent, that it is of good design and can easily be seen and understood. mr maat was right when he said that the commission must make a good job of it. i fully support what he says. this must not be used as a stick to beat the industry. i am concerned that it could be used by some of the scientists and others as an opportunity to curb tacs and quotas when there is disagreement between fishermen and the scientists. i do not believe we need or require a ‘one size fits all’ policy. if we go down that road, we will create a hornets’ nest. not everywhere has the same problems and i am deeply conscious of the need, where necessary, to ensure that regional differences are respected. i listened to the commissioner with interest. he said he would come back to parliament when the commission had taken a decision. might it not be better to consult parliament along the way, rather than come back and tell us what you have decided, commissioner? you talked about a ‘tool in your box’. this must not become another tool in your box thanks to which you can place bureaucratic control on the industry. i am not totally convinced that the consumer is really demanding this. finally, can i say to mrs fraga estévez and to you, mr president, there is great joy in belfast tonight: we beat the spanish football team 3-2. northern ireland is a very small place of one and a half million people, and we have had many problems over the years. it seems that at football we can beat the english, we can beat the germans and we can beat the spanish, but last saturday there were lots of tears in belfast when iceland beat us 3-0. so it is a source of great joy tonight that we have beaten spain.
rapporteur. – mr president, we all know that europe’s citizens are on the move. we have overtly encouraged this within our own borders through the principle of free movement. however, our citizens are also mobile throughout the world and they can end up in all sorts of improbable situations and scrapes that involve them dealing with civil law in the courts. such is the nature of modern life. so far as it is feasible we want to be able to offer them some sort of certainty at these moments of personal crisis. for more than 100 years, the hague conference on private international law has worked tirelessly and with an ever-growing number of countries across the globe to put together numerous international conventions on civil law subjects: sale of goods, testamentary dispositions, child abduction, maintenance obligations and road-traffic accidents. they have striven to provide a coherent legal framework in an increasingly mobile world. when i was a practising lawyer, i often had recourse to hague conventions to assist clients caught up in troubles with a cross-border dimension. those clients had reasons to be thankful for the existence of this rather unknown organisation. over the last years as a parliamentarian, i have had the privilege, on behalf of this house, to attend many of the hague meetings, to get to know the people behind this apparently rather technical and distant exercise, to see the officials and national experts at their work, drafting and negotiating very complex and technical agreements to assist our citizens. it is difficult work, taking account of an ever-increasing number of legal traditions and cultural values. whilst it may seem to be technical work, there are very big political choices underlying many of these apparently dry legal issues. this work should increasingly see the light of day and i hope that our involvement will assist that process. up until now, the community has been represented by all its individual member states and, from my limited observations, that also brings a richness and strength to the work of the conference because of the diversity of our own legal traditions and our own comparative legal experience. however, it is also clear that, given the new community competence post-amsterdam, there is every reason why the community should operate as a community within the conference. in every practical sense it already does this through joint coordination meetings and, in any event, the conference works by consensus. therefore, i have absolutely no problem in recommending to colleagues that this house should give its assent to the accession of the community to the hague conference. it is a good thing, a positive and timely development. however, there is a caveat; it is contained at the end of the explanatory statement to my report and set out in more detail in our chairman’s motion for a resolution. in passing this competence to the community, parliament is in some measure possibly detracting from its own hard-won legislative powers. i say ‘possibly detracting’, because tonight we look to the commissioner for reassurance that parliament will continue to be fully involved in the future work when new conventions are negotiated and new or old ones ratified by the community. we have to find new working methods that fully respect parliament’s position as co-legislator with the council. much as i have enjoyed over the last years attending hague conference meetings as a sort of ad hoc representative of this house, we now need something much more formal and transparent that reflects the new role of our institutions in this process. i hinted earlier that the conventions negotiated at the hague deserve much more attention. they deserve that attention because they not only achieve positive outcomes for our citizens but also, increasingly, involve making political choices and balancing interests. this is work that cries out for more parliamentary involvement and i know that this is something the hague conference would also welcome. there have been initial discussions about some kind of parliamentary forum. this is something we should pursue. however, this should not be seen as in any way excusing the need for this house to be fully involved in the community’s legislative process in relation to the work of the conference. this would be by way of an additional activity that is within our powers to undertake. i hope colleagues will agree that we should be initiators in this regard, perhaps hosting a first meeting.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is not clear that there is any current use for pnr data in the us for the purposes for which the original agreement was signed – i.e. by the customs and border protection service – because caps ii and the secure flight programme are dead. in his article ten days ago, the us secretary of homeland security michael chertoff complained of being handcuffed and prevented from using all available resources. he wants to analyse pnr records in conjunction with current intelligence, to identify high-risk travellers who are ‘unnamed threats’, and to share the information routinely with other homeland security sections, such as immigration, as well as the fbi and, indeed, ‘our allies in london’. so we do not need a european pnr system: we will get it by the back door. the chertoff vision is of data-mining and profiling on the basis of past and assumed future behaviour and stereotypes of potential terrorists. this takes us well beyond the simple checking of people against watch lists, for which apis data – i.e. name, date of birth, nationality and passport number – is quite sufficient. we have not begun to tackle the risks of this, so we need a very good explanation of what pnr data is being used for in the united states and what profiling techniques are being used. we need strict and legally-binding purpose- and access-limitation provisions. similar concerns arise in the context of the eu plans for european pnr and so-called ‘positive profiling’. under the 2004 eu apis directive, governments gave themselves the power to use the personal data for law-enforcement purposes ‘in accordance with their national law and subject to the data protection provisions under directive 95/46/ec’. surely the court judgment on the us pnr agreement has shown that directive 95/46/ec cannot be the legal basis for data used for security purposes? therefore we need the third-pillar measure. has the commission thought about this? i agree with commissioner frattini and mrs in ‘t veld on the need for a coherent eu policy. if you look at this pnr topic, the swift scandal or cia rendition, you see a pattern of a disunited europe: member states running round like headless chickens, subject to divide and rule by the united states. we are not even a reliable partner: we are not even ratifying the agreements like europol protocols, which would allow cooperation with the fbi. we are ineffective, dysfunctional and we are letting our citizens down. we must stop this incoherence and achieve a clear and assertive eu competence, but that policy must be determined to safeguard our privacy. can we trust the commission on that?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this report states that the eu-us agreement in this sphere is going to become ‘the standard, both for european legislation and globally’. well, what a reference standard to have! it is already an embarrassment. the european court of justice has annulled the original agreement, and yet the replacement agreement only differs in its legal basis. this parliament challenged the original agreement between the us and the eu because it believed that the legal basis was wrong and disagreed with the substance. however, despite this parliament appearing to win the case in the european court of justice, nothing substantial has changed. the legal basis will be altered, but since the european court of justice did not comment on the substance, in real terms nothing has changed except, of course, the fact that the european court of justice will not have competence over the new agreement. it is clear that the council is going to continue with this agreement in its original form, just changing the legal basis but still ignoring parliament in the process. so why is this parliament again indulging in pointless activity by writing, debating and voting on this report? it will be ignored by the council. in-fighting within the european institutions brought about the premature termination of the original agreement. this whole process illustrates the chaotic nature of the european union. this indicates clearly once again why the united kingdom would be so much better served by organising such international agreements and arrangements on a bilateral basis.
mr president, it has been an interesting debate and i should just like perhaps to add a note of realism. we must remember that we are not talking about travel within the eu: we are talking about travel to the united states. we are talking about travel through us air space. i believe an agreement is essential if we want to protect the fundamental rights of the eu. but if we are to have this agreement we have to be willing to negotiate, we have to move. we have to recognise that in the absence of any agreement, the americans will do quite legally what they have done in other instances: they will say to every passenger travelling to the united states of america, ‘we wish you to sign a data waiver, i.e. that your data can be transferred to the united states’. let me tell colleagues now that if that happens, any notion of eu-wide data protection is absolutely and fundamentally lost. furthermore, let me say that america is not the problem. an attack upon the united states, an attack in germany, an attack in denmark, an attack in madrid, an attack in the united kingdom, or attempted attacks, are attacks upon every single one of us because we have common values. the united states wants to make the world a safer place. we need to work with the united states to make that a reality. america is not the problem: terrorism and extremism are the problem. my colleague mr coelho cited some brilliant examples of negotiations and agreements currently in place. we should look at those agreements, we should emulate them and we should give our citizens their fundamental rights and their fundamental freedoms.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i have not met many people who are not in favour of the protection of natural, architectural or cultural heritage. indeed, much of my constituency, the east of england, fits the bill as a rural area. that is, of course, as long as some of the misguided, unsustainable development plans from mr john prescott, our deputy prime minister, can be halted. great britain is an island with its own extensive natural and architectural heritage. however, although at face value this report has noble intentions, it serves to threaten britain’s heritage. the proposals in the report have the specific aim of subsuming britain’s distinct and diverse culture into the federalist fairytale creation of a common european culture. sadly, many meps see culture purely as a tool for promoting european integration and pursuing a delusional project called ‘a united states of europe’. why can people here not understand that there is so such thing as a common european culture, no common history and no common heritage, just as there is no common architecture or common language? europe is a continent formed of unique nation-states with very different histories and heritage. that is what makes europe so very interesting and attractive. the only way to achieve this report’s declared ambition of convincing europe’s citizens that they share the same culture would be through lies. that is what frightens me. today’s political elite seems to have no qualms about such deception. we have seen successive british governments seemingly deliberately and successfully keeping the british public in the dark about ‘project europe’. what must be recognised is that the european union’s integration agenda is one of the greatest threats to the heritage of every country in europe that we have seen for decades. sadly, reports such as these cannot see their own great contradiction.
mr president, i would like to propose the following oral amendment: ‘calls upon the chinese authorities to reveal the whereabouts of human rights lawyer gao zhisheng and to release him unless he is to be charged with a recognised criminal offence; similarly calls for the release of chen guangcheng, who has helped citizens in their attempts to sue their local authorities for carrying out forced abortions and sterilisations, and of bu dongwei, who has been assigned to two and a half years of “re-education through labour” (rtl) and who is detained at an undisclosed location; therefore urges the authorities to ensure that all human rights defenders can carry out peaceful and legitimate activities without fear of arbitrary arrest, torture or ill-treatment and that they be given access to proper legal representation in the event of arrest;’.
in writing. in this debate on the situation in the middle east, i want to remind members that on 31 may 2005, parliament voted through a resolution entitled ‘the assyrian community and the situation in iraqi prisons’. i am afraid to have to report that the situation of christians in iraq, and the assyrians in particular, continues to deteriorate. we have just learnt that dr donny george, director of the iraq museum and one of the most high-profile assyrians within the country, has fled to syria with his family. the outgoing united kingdom ambassador, william patey, has indicated that iraq is already in an undeclared civil war. what is to be done? we must get fully behind church leaders and the save the assyrians campaign, which i support and which supports me, in the campaign they are taking to northern iraq later this month. we in europe and the united nations need to press for this indigenous iraqi community, like the kurds, sunnis and shia, to have their own administration area within a united iraq, as mentioned in the iraqi constitution. otherwise, the prospect is that the middle east christian community which, at one time, was 20% of the population, will be driven out completely.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament’s resolution on the middle east. progress towards a lasting peace in the middle east will only be made when the mutual coexistence of an israeli and palestinian state, both with secure and recognised borders, is respected and endorsed by the international community. in light of this, i call on the eu to do everything possible to secure that conclusion. whilst the conflict persisted in lebanon, international attention was ignoring the 250 air strikes, 1000 artillery shells, and more than 200 killings inflicted on the people of gaza as well as, at the most recent count, around 300 palestinian child prisoners being held captive in israeli jails. i believe that there is no military solution to this crisis and that the eu should call on israel to desist from offensive military action in the region and immediately release the palestinian child prisoners arrested by the israeli army.
in writing. british conservatives sympathise with the victims of the summer forest fires. however, this resolution does not sufficiently address the fact that most of these fires seem to have been deliberately started by arsonists. even the spanish government’s own environment minister suggested that some of the fires could have been started by forestry workers angry at not being drafted over the summer by the regional firefighting brigades. it is imperative that individual member states take more preventive action to stop these deliberate acts from re-occurring. for this reason, british conservatives will not be supporting the joint motion.
in writing. mr president, i have reluctantly supported this resolution though do so having voted against the idea within it that a full blown delegation of the parliament be sent to view fire damage in various places. i do not see that this is proportionate to the issues and that the funds likely to be used in this venture would be better used elsewhere.
in writing. it is a tragedy that this failed over agriculture when it is less than 5% of the gdp for the european union and the united states and yet so vital for developing countries. while india has made the offer to end farm subsidies by 2013, the us seems hell-bent on increasing agricultural subsidies. we can only hope sanity returns to these negotiations so important and so vital for so many!
in writing. i hope this resolution on the suspension of the doha round will send a clear signal to the negotiating parties of this parliament's ongoing commitment to multilateralism as a driver of global development. it is true that countries do not come to the table as equals in international trade. this means we need to honour our doha commitments to ‘less-than-full reciprocity’ in nama, to special and differential treatment and aid for trade for the poorest countries. it means especially that we cannot continue to allow agriculture, accountable for only 2% of our economy, to remain the stumbling block of these talks. i hope that this period of stocktaking at the wto will enable parties to reflect not only on how that organisation must change, but also on the merits of that organisation – a unique body in international law. bilateralism - with its unequal terms – is a poor substitute for developing countries who will be forced to accept less favourable terms on market access and intellectual property rights. i voted for a renewed commitment to this wto round, as an ambitious trade round but also as the development round it was originally intended to be.
in writing. mr president, trade issues must be dealt with globally, where at all possible, and it is worth the effort of continuing if we presently cannot find agreement. the alternative is a morass of unequal bilateral deals which will in the main disadvantage the developing world, we are already seeing this trend worsening. agreement will evidently take more time, though in the short term there are other weapons in our armoury. the "aid for trade" agenda provides a useful means of working towards effective development and i would like to see it progress, while of course hoping that the commission will continue to press for substantive progress in the wto itself.
in writing. i had no problems in supporting this resolution. the counterfeiting of medicines is the most serious and most amoral form of counterfeiting given that it endangers the health of millions of consumers. this problem is particularly prevalent in developing countries where medicines without essential active ingredients are circulating (in some countries as high as 50% of the medicines available) and are being used to treat fatal conditions such as hiv/aids, tb and malaria. there is no reason why counterfeiting of medicines and their distribution within or across borders should not constitute a criminal offence in international law. i and my colleagues would like to see greater coordination of national and transnational bodies involved in the fight against piracy. i also support the eu taking a leading role in strengthening the regulatory and quality-control capacity for medicinal products and medical equipment placed on the market in resource-poor countries. i would call on the authorities and pharmaceutical companies to continue to guarantee the origin and quality of medicines available, recognising the utmost importance of fighting this dangerous form of piracy.
author. – mr president, i welcome the opportunity to speak this afternoon, but regret the need to do so because it seems not very long ago that this parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in sri lanka. since then, we have seen a return to, or a continuation of, the destruction, the deaths, the displacement of people, and indeed the recurrence of bloodshed in a way that all of us in this house would have hoped would have ceased by now. i am sure that every one of us in this chamber wants an end to the bloodshed and that we want a peaceful settlement in sri lanka. we may disagree about the path we should take, but we are united on that goal as this resolution makes clear. as our resolution says, the fact that there is no peace settlement is due to intransigents on both sides who trample on the aspirations of the majority and who are so concerned with their own role, their own future, their own vision of sri lanka that they are unwilling to let forces wanting peace work to that end. the european union now has to find its own way forward. for some of us, placing the ltte on the terrorist list has led to a totally predictable reaction and the slmm is no longer able to operate at full force or as effectively as we would want. nevertheless, we still have to move forward. we have to look for the resumption of peace negotiations. we have to participate in those as fully as we are able and with all the contacts that we have in order to find a way forward, so that we can get on with distributing the tsunami aid properly and look to a peaceful future for all.
author. – mr president, i should like to condemn strongly the recent spate of violence in sri lanka. at the weekend government patrol boats engaged tamil tiger rebels in the northern seas. this marks yet another outbreak of violence between government forces and the rebel movement but, as we know, violence is not the way to resolve complex and sensitive conflicts. ever since the tamil tigers were classified as terrorists by the council, the situation in sri lanka has worsened. the labelling of this group has undoubtedly driven that movement further away from the negotiating table. my approach as chairwoman of parliament's delegation for relations with the countries of south asia and the south asia association for regional cooperation is that both parties should be brought together and both held equally responsible for the recent violence. neither side can be immune from blame, and both must accept responsibility. the sri lankan government has failed to adopt a measured approach to the rebel threat. it must be careful not to adopt the terrorist approaches currently associated with the rebel movement it so violently pursues. the targeting of schools and hospitals in northern sri lanka is not the action of a responsible, democratic and peace-seeking government. as we all know from other terrorist flashpoints in the world, the root causes of any conflict need to be analysed closely. we need to deal with the causes of the conflict. the heavy-handed approach adopted by the government does not help address these root causes. let us not forget that many people have lost their lives, including 17 eu nationals working as aid monitors. no longer can we tolerate violence against innocent people, aid agencies, ngos and monitors in the region. it is time for good sense and negotiation to prevail in sri lanka.
author. – mr president, sri lanka is a beautiful country, located at a key economic crossroads, with an enterprising and industrious people. what a terrible shame that the hopes and ambitions of a generation of sri lankans have been blighted by terrorism. sri lanka has made progress in recent years; how much more could have been achieved in terms of rapid economic and social development if there had been stability and security? i do not want to underestimate the strength of feeling among many tamil citizens, in particular, that they were not getting a fair deal, but we can be certain that terrorism has not improved their opportunities one iota. the tamil-speaking population is very mixed. of a population of four million, one quarter or so are so-called hill tamils, who have never been associated with the ltte, while a further quarter are muslims, who certainly find little attraction in the ltte. most of the tamil peoples of sri lanka live in the centre and south of the island, outside areas that have been under ltte control. those living in those areas have little opportunity to express their true feelings about the terrorist masters who dominate their lives. i have no doubt that over the years there have been abuses of tamils and that on occasion security forces have acted with insufficient regard for ordinary tamil people in the areas of conflict. i therefore congratulate the sri lankan government on the commitment it has made to investigate atrocities and serious human rights violations and to bring the perpetrators to justice. of course, the greatest human rights violators are the terrorists. successive sri lankan governments have sought to improve the situation of the tamils and have offered various devolutionary proposals that would give the tamil population considerable autonomy, while preserving the unity of the country. each of those proposals has been rejected by that same intransigent leadership at the ltte. in our resolution today, we are calling upon all parties to the conflict and troubles in sri lanka to pull back from the brink. we are calling for an immediate, comprehensive and verifiable end to hostilities, respect for human rights, unhindered access throughout the country for humanitarian workers, and for the government and opposition in sri lanka to come forward with a bold gesture of reconciliation, including constitutional revision, as a matter of urgency. meanwhile, the council, commission and member states must redouble their efforts to help bring a stable and just peace to sri lanka and restore security and prosperity, and that includes bearing down hard on the agents of terrorism.
author. – mr president, the end to the violence seems to be further away than ever. one of the reasons for this was the failure to have a second round of the geneva peace talks, with the ltte pulling out. hopes of further talks have been damaged by the council proscribing the ltte as a terrorist organisation on 29 may 2006. i am personally pleased that an amendment has been tabled to that effect and i am sorry that it is not in the resolution. the banning of the ltte only leads to further isolation. they are not permitted to travel, so another geneva conference is impossible. we should be realistic here. however much we condemn the terrorist acts by the ltte – and we do – the government is certainly not blameless. we just have to look at the 17 french aid workers who were killed on 4 august 2006. evidence points to the government security forces being responsible – we do not know as yet. this incident and all the others perpetrated by the ltte and the government need further investigation by an independent human rights expert. what i find so reprehensible is that neither the government security forces nor the tamil tigers do enough to protect civilians. persistent uncertainty about what has actually occurred and who is responsible for alleged war crimes and other violations of international law is fuelling fear and panic among the civilian population. we must have a strong, effective monitoring operation, but it must have the support of the government, the ltte, the united nations and its members.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, this item on the agenda, as we know, is about debates on breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the situation in sri lanka at the moment is tragic, and there have indeed been many breaches of human rights. this motion refers to the work of the sri lankan monitoring mission. that independent body has blamed the ltte for the attack on 15 june and, as mrs lynne has said, it has blamed the sri lankan government for the murder of the 17 aid workers in muttur at the beginning of august. this shows the seriousness of the situation. regrettably though, some people involved in the debate – not just the one this afternoon, but also others – are trying to assign all the blame to one side or the other. we have to accept that in any conflict situation there is grave fault on both sides, and that the military responses have in many cases been disproportionate. what started out as a little local dispute over water supply has cost hundreds of lives, displaced thousands of people and brought the country to the brink of civil war. all sides – the ltte, colonel karuna and the sri lankan government – must realise that there can be no military solution and that peace negotiations without preconditions are the only way forward. it is in this spirit that amendment 5 seeks to keep the negotiations open. everyone accepts that the ltte is a player, and yet the eu has effectively washed its hands of negotiations through its proscriptions. let me make something clear. just because i am saying this, and because mrs lynne said something similar, as did mrs lambert and mr meijer, that does not make us terrorists or apologists for terrorism, which we condemn. it just means that we need to keep negotiations open. equally, we need to do everything we can, as mirrored in amendment 4, to help the ordinary people of sri lanka, who have suffered for so long and need a peaceful solution.
author. – mr president, for over six years, parliament has consistently called for robust action to effect change for the better in zimbabwe, but we continue to witness the desperate plight of millions of ordinary zimbabwean people. they suffer on a daily basis from intense political oppression, a collapsed economy and shortages of vital food, water and medical supplies. the united nations world food programme expects to dispense aid to almost four million malnourished people this year – over one third of the population. hiv/aids has had a devastating effect on the country, with one in five adults being hiv positive and over one million children orphaned through the loss of their parents from aids. unemployment afflicts 70% of the population. zimbabwe’s political and economic fortunes are at their lowest point in its 26-year history as an independent nation. action taken by the international community has been at best lukewarm and lacked the commitment necessary to have a real impact on the situation in zimbabwe. south africa should be at the forefront of international efforts to pressure the mugabe regime into making democratic concessions, but i am afraid quiet diplomacy by president mbeke has achieved nothing tangible. through its provision of electricity, maize and credit, south africa could exert enormous leverage on the mugabe regime. it has not done so. now we see a resurgence of chinese interest in many parts of africa, including zimbabwe. the chinese government seems to have no inhibitions about bolstering tyrannical regimes and supplying them with weapons of oppression in exchange for access to natural resources. i see little evidence of diplomatic effort by the eu or by the governments of member states to close down those international sources of support that keep mugabe in power. the eu has been less than robust in strictly implementing its own sanctions regime. no wonder mugabe takes none of this seriously. if the international community is serious about tackling the appalling conditions in zimbabwe, then the united nations security council should urgently investigate the situation in that country. unless we give greater priority to zimbabwe, the mugabe regime will stagger on until the point where zimbabwe fails completely, unable to revive itself without immense international assistance. action now by the international community could help avert this situation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the dreadful self-inflicted situation in zimbabwe needs no reiteration in this house. it shows the limits of our power. to cut off aid would hit only the most vulnerable and yet that is the only real leverage we have in this house over the zimbabwe regime. can we find other means? with regard to that i would refer to paragraph 8 of the motion for resolution, suggesting excluding zimbabwe from the 2010 world cup. i would suggest, unlike my colleagues, that it is a good idea. i would be grateful to hear the commission’s views on that. we saw this week the fraternity and friendship that emanates from international football. my team – scotland – was in lithuania recently and i have no doubt a number of friendships were made. however, participation is a privilege, not a right. exclusion from the 2010 world cup would underline international disgust with mr mugabe’s regime without hurting the people of zimbabwe, and yet it would be noticed throughout that football-mad country. it strikes me as a positive and useful idea. i would be grateful to hear the commissioner’s view on it.
mr president, i should like to change the last phrase of our amendment to read as follows: 'consideration can be given to lifting proscription if there is an effective cease-fire, an end to terrorism and resumption of serious negotiations on a constructive basis.' that would replace the last phrase that appears in the amendment at the moment.
mr president, this is a technical amendment. i am advised that the final part of amendment 5, which refers to the fact that ‘… commissioner ferrero-waldner shares this concern’ would read better as ‘… this is a view shared by many international bodies’.
mr president, we share mr cohn-bendit’s concern about what i understand is called gammelfleisch. it is a serious issue. it occurred in bavaria; there was clearly a breach of the regulations in germany, and we clearly need to hear from germany what has been done. the reason it becomes a european issue is because a little bit of that gammelfleisch crossed the border into austria and switzerland. that is something that should be looked at. i suggest we look at it in the environment committee and then take the matter further from there, rather than taking up time in the plenary during what is an exceptionally busy week here in strasbourg. (applause) (el parlamento rechaza la propuesta) jueves:
mr president, in its europe 2006 report the federal government of switzerland published a cost-benefit analysis of possible membership of the european union. it examined three alternatives: to continue the current set of bilateral sector-specific arrangements, to join the european economic area, or to become a full member of the eu. the swiss calculated that full eu membership would cost between six and nine times as much as the current system of bilateral trading arrangements. they decided that the resulting loss of sovereignty and freedom of action and the negative economic effects would far outweigh any supposed benefits. the report concludes that switzerland’s interests are best served by staying out of the eu and continuing with its existing sector-specific trading arrangements. it is good to know that there is still at least one european government that understands the meaning of the words ‘in the national interest’, even if it is not the british government.
mr president, one of the many gifts the british empire gave to the world was the global abolition of slavery. it has come to my notice, via my constituents in yorkshire, that the practice continues in cyprus, the people of which country never cease to lecture us on the foibles of the turks when it comes to human rights. it is called indentured labour. philippine and singhalese female domestic staff are treated appallingly: their passports are basically confiscated by their employers. i have given full details of the matter in a parliamentary question. indentured labour by any other term is a form of slavery. it exists in the european union and it is disgraceful. let us please hear less humbug from the cypriot representatives and let us see them put their own house in order. enough of this indentured labour! it is a disgrace!
mr president, if you want to know why we are having this debate, come with me down oxford street, in my constituency of london, where you can smell, taste and feel the air pollution that we seek to tackle. an earlier generation was faced with smog and it tackled that with clean air acts, which stopped coal burning in homes, in industries and on railways. now we face the challenge of fine particles and the respiratory and cardiovascular effect that has on our constituents: the extra medication, the millions of lost working days each year and premature deaths. in my constituency, 1 000 people die prematurely as a result of pollution and another 1 000 are sent to hospital. it is now estimated that pm 2.5 pollution is responsible for reducing our life expectancy by some eight months. that is the challenge. that is why we need to tackle pollution at source in relation to cars and heavy vehicles, ships, agricultural feed, energy-using products and so forth. however, we also need to tackle it through this directive, simplifying the previous legal instruments while bringing in this new standard for the smaller particles, the 2.5s, because we know those are the most dangerous to human health. we need a robust directive and the commissioner is right to remind us that we must not go back on things already agreed. my delegation will certainly vote for standards that are challenging, that are effective and that will be implemented sooner rather than later. i thank the two rapporteurs who brought this through the committee to this plenary and i wish the commissioner well in his work. may i also wish well mr sjöstedt, our friend and colleague from the environment committee. as he takes his environmental credentials across the ocean, may we hope that he influences the americans too, to ensure they understand the need for environmental measures of this sort.
mr president, i am not on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety but, like mr bowis, i represent london, the city traditionally known as the ‘big smoke’. london’s air today is still very polluted and is amongst the worst of any city in europe. eu air pollution limits are significantly exceeded along london’s major road network, in central london and around heathrow airport, where nitrogen dioxide is 50% above the limit, due to a combination of aeroplanes and vehicles. i welcome much that is positive in the new proposals and the krahmer report, such as the streamlining of the law, greater public accessibility to monitoring results, new limits for fine particulates and stricter ones for other pollutants. however, i am very concerned about the effect in my city of postponing the deadlines, perhaps until 2018 instead of 2010, for hot spots. londoners would be asked to trust the british government or the mayor of london to seek postponement when it is genuinely impossible to meet the 2010 deadlines. however, surely it comes down to political will to cut road and air traffic. one barrier between the uk government and its goal of bulldozing through a third runway at heathrow is eu air-quality limits, in particular nitrogen dioxide. i fear a long postponement will allow it to wriggle round those limits. i am surprised and somewhat disappointed that meps are being less progressive than eu governments, at least on the issue of deadlines. it is the first time in seven years in this house that i have found the council more progressive than the european parliament. i hope, for the sake of londoners, that we will stick to deadlines that are as tight as possible. (applause)
mr president, i thank mr hegyi for his report and for accepting a number of amendments that i put forward. i hope that he will likewise accept the amendments that my colleague, renate sommer, has put forward, in the sense that europe is at its best when it is sharing good practice. it is geared to sharing good practice between member states and between local authorities. the amendments are intended to make sure that this is directed to them and that the commission is not called on to do everything for them. if we can get that straight, then we will be able to support the very good ideas in the report as a whole. our constituents are rightly worried about many aspects of the urban environment. we have just had a debate on air quality: that is very central to it. however, it is more than that; it is the noise that we have to put up with in the urban environment, from neighbours as well as from vehicles, from ghetto blasters and so on. this is not territory for european directives, but we can share best practice as to how to tackle it. similarly, street cleaning and the sheer dirt of our cities are a public health issue that ought to be on our agenda. we can learn from each other. just as one sees in paris the gutters running with water at night to clean them, there are ideas all over europe. we want to see the phasing-out of crime as part of our strategy for urban areas, with emphasis on designing estates which avoid those traps for citizens where they can be pounced on by wrongdoers, making sure that we have safe routes to railway stations, and so on. we must also ensure that we have sensible development alongside our rivers to avoid building on flood plains and the disasters that can cause. there are many good ideas in this report with opportunities to share best practice and that is what could come from this. i hope the commissioner will take it forward in that spirit.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i am eternally grateful to this august institution for allowing me a miserly one and a half minutes to comment on the discharge of the budget for 2004. given that the report describes this parliament as ‘the democratic representative body in the eu’, let everyone be clear about just how little it deserves that description. we do not have debates in this institution, but tightly controlled and orchestrated speaking time without the opportunity for reply, hence the empty chamber this evening. we simply go through the motions in what is a pale shadow of a parliament. it acts as a fig leaf of democratic respectability, designed to mislead the people of europe into thinking that they have some say in the management of the so-called european project. there can be no better example of this than the one million signature petition calling for an end to the utterly pointless and grotesquely expensive monthly pilgrimage to strasbourg. ignoring this entreaty from the people we are supposed to represent, this parliament is seriously considering purchasing these buildings and making this bizarre arrangement permanent. it is all very well for this report to question the city of strasbourg’s good faith, but the reality is that the city ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i want to use my minute to speak on paragraph 88 about the mep pension scheme and the way the contributions are paid. firstly, i deplore very strongly the fact that some colleagues in this parliament have been casting slurs on other colleagues. those who are casting the slurs are not present in this debate, and they have no evidence. it is a disgrace that they can go to the press and try to make their names by casting slurs on honourable members of this parliament. let them produce the evidence before they go around saying such things. i have no objection – and i have heard no objections – to our contributions to the pension scheme being deducted directly from our bank accounts. that is perfectly okay. but it should be borne in mind that parliament would apparently have to recruit five extra full-time staff to do this, at an annual cost of eur 400 000, in order to check that the right amounts have been transferred from each of the national bank accounts to the central pot. this is because some banks make bank charges to transfer the money and some do not, so that the amounts will vary. furthermore, as there is no euro currency in 13 of our member states, the monthly payments will also vary with fluctuations in the exchange rate of national currencies against the euro. all this involves very considerable expense, and we should keep cool heads and refrain from insults.
rapporteur. – mr president, the purpose of this report is very clear and specific. it calls upon the council of ministers to give a fresh impetus to the inclusion and enhancement of the european dimension in school curricula. that is a national competence and the national, regional, and educational authorities in our member states vary. however, this parliament is totally within its rights – and indeed has a duty – to remind the council of ministers that it passed a resolution back in may 1988 calling for the enhancement of the european dimension in education. it is the virtually unanimous feeling of the committee that it is high time that this was updated. so what are the practical steps? first of all, the european dimension should not simply be a vague platitude, a notion that governments pay lip-service to but in actual fact do very little to achieve. i hope attention has been drawn to this in committee and i hope that the finnish presidency will be able to confirm by correspondence that this item will be included on the agenda of the next council of education ministers meeting in brussels on 13 november. i look forward to receiving confirmation of that. we think that there should be a discussion by our ministers, specifically about what the european dimension entails. as far as parliament’s committee is concerned, we have looked at two aspects. firstly, in citizenship classes, what used to be called ‘civics’: an understanding of what the eu is, how its institutions operate and, in particular, the democratic input of individuals, interests and concerns in the decision-making; and second, and equally important, an understanding of our common cultural and historical heritage. parliament held a hearing on the teaching of history and its european dimension two years ago. of course, national stories are the foundation stone of an understanding of our past, but it is impossible to teach the classical empires of greece and rome, the middle ages, the renaissance, the napoleonic wars, the industrial revolution, the struggles between democracies and dictatorship without reference to the european context. we also dwell specifically on the importance of language teaching. that has declined very significantly in my own country in recent years. in the last two years, the number of 16-year-old students studying languages has dropped by as much as 14%, as our government has made it an option rather than a compulsory element of the curriculum. looking across europe, our understanding and our use of languages is very imbalanced. as english increasingly becomes a ‘lingua franca’, for those of us with english as our mother tongue that is a real problem in terms of motivating students to study and teachers to teach foreign languages. and yet without that cultural understanding that goes with an understanding of language, how on earth are we going to be able to cooperate properly and enrich the content of our educational syllabuses? with regard to teacher awareness, i mentioned that there is a disparity, not only across the eu but within member states. some schools pay considerable attention to the european dimension, fully engaging in european exchange programmes, for example, using not simply resources from the eu but national and independent resources, television and newspaper archive material, while others concentrate hardly at all on the european dimension. therefore we have a ‘scatter’ effect. it is important that teacher training courses should offer potential teachers the opportunity to be aware of what teaching materials are available and how they can fit into curricula. i draw your attention to paragraph 13 of the report, which we are grateful to mrs novak for incorporating. it states that: ‘the european dimension complements national content. it neither replaces nor supplants it.’ there is a very small fringe of people who would attack this report and say that it is all about propaganda, trying to force people to see only the rosy and beneficial side of the european union. i would return that taunt by saying that it is they who would seek to deny information, who are actually distorting the picture, depriving our students of the opportunity to make a balanced judgment of their own and to consider what their career opportunities might be, because they have had the full information given to them consistently, throughout their time at school. this report is a call to the council of ministers for action. we look forward to seeing the positive results.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, may i remind you of what our rapporteur said on 12 october last year: ‘governments know nothing about education; they frustrate the profession of teachers’. what frightens me is why he thinks the eu can do any better. mr beazley is a former teacher and mp and cannot be unaware that the united kingdom education act 1996, brought in by his own party, forbids the promotion of partisan political views in schools in the united kingdom. the eu is a political project – a project which has failed to persuade millions of adults, as shown by the results of the french and dutch referendums last year. having failed at that level, mr beazley now wants to try persuading our children of the benefits of the eu instead. i am reminded of a quotation: ‘give me a child at the age of seven, and he is mine for life’. this, like so much else from this committee, is sheer one-sided propaganda, and i will not tolerate or support it.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, one can understand the desire to define the scope of eu interference in the provision of public services. it helps if you are running a business or a public service to know what the rules are, but i am appalled that this should hinge on defining the distinction between services of economic general interest and services of non-economic general interest. surely, all services are economic in the proper sense that they have an economic value, otherwise they presumably would not be provided. i fear that attempts at such a definition will merely cause more confusion, less efficiency and more scope for ambiguous judgments from the european court of justice. at root, the problem is that national and local authorities must have sovereignty over the management of public services, because public services are paid for by national governments on behalf of their electors. yet here we are trying to make public services obey a common set of eu rules. has anyone spotted the inherent contradiction? mr barroso has outlined an ambitious programme of work for the commission. i say to him: please just leave it alone. please let national governments do their own thing.
mr president, before i was elected to this parliament i was the leader of a scottish local authority which was, if i may say so, a very successful one in terms of both value for money and meeting local aspirations for public service provision in the county of angus. it was then, and remains today, the predominant interest of local government to protect its right to local self-government. it is therefore vital that in any new eu initiative we put an end to uncertainty. let us not be satisfied with woolly wording in relation to vital public service. let us not interfere in any way with the principle of local self-government. let us distinguish clearly between private enterprise, which is subject to eu competition law, and public service: services of a local nature provided for the public good, which have little or no cross-border effect and should be provided free of eu competition rules. the setting of standards in general interest services should also be subject to local decision. some local authorities are sceptical of the need for new eu legislation. i say that if we are to have a framework directive, let us have one that gives cast-iron guarantees of the rights of local authorities to define, organise and finance public services in the way they see fit. i recognise that significant economic benefits to business will arise from removing barriers to commercial service provision, but let us not further alienate public opinion by interfering with or undermining the provision of essential local public services.
mr president, i would like to get this debate back, as my colleague mr karas said, to the people who really matter in all of this: our citizens receiving public services. we know that in many cases those public services are not good enough, not efficient enough and are delivered at much too high a cost. mr barroso, whom we are delighted to see here this morning, made an important point in his principles for the promotion of good-quality public-service delivery. he mentioned the crucial factor of how technology is now enabling those services to be transformed and new models of organisation and delivery to be sustained. those are the things we should be talking about. we should be thinking about the diversity that is engaging the best minds, the best technology, the best people and the best managers involved in delivering those services. however, the debate we have had, principally from that side of the house, has mainly been concerned with organisational models and protectionism. with the services directive in place, thanks to our efforts, more of those minds can be unleashed on delivery of services. we have work to do on public procurement from recent hearings in our committee. we have work to do on competition law. if those are included within mr barroso’s idea of consolidation, that is fine. however, we do not want a directive of the kind set out here, which is a naked political directive. they gave the game away in their interventions. mrs schroedter said that it would protect against liberalisation. that is what it is all about, mr barroso! have nothing to do with it. tell us today that you will take it off your agenda. i have asked in my committee, but with no reply, what problems for our citizens this directive is intended to solve. when those on the left give us a comprehensive analysis of those problems, we might consider it, but we have far more important things to do today than to talk about their political declaration. (applause)
mr president, can you explain or give any good reason why the votes have been arbitrarily postponed to 11.40, when previously they were announced for 11.30? there was no need to start this debate at the time it did start. yet again, the administration of this parliament is putting the convenience of the presidency before the interests of members. it is not good enough.
rapporteur. – mr president, i have a very brief textual clarification, which refers to paragraph 1. the final clause reads: ‘... to prepare them’ – that is to say school students – ‘for their roles as future citizens and as members of the european union’. i propose that we delete the word ‘future’ so that it will read as follows: ‘... to prepare them for their roles as citizens and as members of the european union’.
in writing. this own-initiative report does not seek to interfere with national competences regarding education. essentially, this report seeks to ask for clarification as to what is the 'european dimension'. there are a number of programmes that exist for teacher exchanges and for students such as the erasmus/socrates programme. however, in the uk there are large numbers of students who are not aware of these opportunities and the uk is falling behind other countries in sending students abroad. since the labour government made gcse languages non-compulsory, the number of students studying french and german this year alone was 14% less than in the previous year. due to the language of the oral amendment which is ambiguous, british conservatives were not able to accept this report in its entirety.
in writing. i congratulate our rapporteur on his initiative. education is and must remain a member state competence. indeed, we in scotland control our own education system and have for centuries. however, our rapporteur makes the very fair point that often our youngsters leave school ill-equipped to participate as citizens, and often know little about the eu or other governments which work for them. the steps set out in this report make interesting homework for teachers across the eu.
in writing. while i support initiatives to enhance the study of foreign languages, to improve knowledge of the culture and history of the many european countries and to stimulate genuine debate about the nature of the eu, including its many fundamental flaws, i am strongly opposed to measures designed to inculcate support for the eu project of political integration and to construct some false identity of 'european' citizenship. the report confuses these various aspects. i therefore abstained.
in writing. british conservatives note with approval the court of auditors' observation that progress has been made with regard to the integrity of the eu accounts. we are dismayed to note, however, that the auditors have indicated that there are continuing weaknesses in supervisory and control systems and we support the rapporteur's opinion that those weaknesses should be addressed as a matter of utmost priority. with regard to the european parliament's lease of the strasbourg parliament buildings, we acknowledge and approve the fact that the report states that the parliament authority behaved correctly but that the city of strasbourg had failed to act in good faith. however, we believe that the continued occupancy of two seats by the european parliament represents poor value for money to the european taxpayer and, therefore, we can not support any proposal to purchase the strasbourg parliament buildings. for these reasons the british conservatives have abstained on the final vote on the ferber report.
in writing. i voted against the suggestion that the european institute of technology should be sited in strasbourg, because i think this is a silly idea. the eit proposals are ongoing from the commission, and worthy of serious consideration, they should not be used as an excuse for us to solve our own dilemma getting out of strasbourg. the parliament should have one site, in brussels, and the eit idea should progress further. the two are distinct issues and it is irresponsible to attempt to link them in this way.
in writing. the petition of one million signatures to have one seat for the european parliament in brussels must be welcomed. as it is the only parliament in the world which has no say over where it sits, the council of ministers must, once and for all, put an end to this situation. the people of europe have spoken. their voice must be recognised. the european parliament must have one home and that should be in brussels. on a separate issue, i would like to put on the record my opposition to the second pension scheme. as amendment 5 was rejected, i cannot back the report and will have to vote against it.
in writing. given that the report describes this parliament as “the democratic representative body in the eu”, let everyone be clear about just how little it deserves that description. we do not have debates in this institution, but tightly controlled and orchestrated speaking time, without the opportunity for reply. we simply go through the motions in what is a pale shadow of a parliament. there can be no better example of this than the one million-signature petition calling for an end to the utterly pointless and grotesquely expensive monthly pilgrimage to strasbourg. ignoring this entreaty from the people we are supposed to represent, this parliament is seriously considering purchasing these buildings and making this bizarre arrangement permanent. it is all very well for this report to question the city of strasbourg’s ‘good faith’, but the reality is that this city worked out the best deal it could get for itself. this parliament tamely signed it, without bothering to verify the terms or attempting to negotiate more favourable conditions. in other words, they saw us coming!
in writing. given the significance of mrs prets' report concerning transnational mobility within the community for education and training purposes, the british conservative delegation of the epp-ed group will vote in favour of the report. however, the delegation maintains its opposition to the wording 'political integration' referred to in amendment 3 to recital 1a (new), as this implies a constitutional settlement in the eu, which does not reflect the current position and which has not received the assent of the 25 member states.
in writing. given the significance of mrs trüpel's report concerning key competences for lifelong learning, the british conservative delegation of the ppe-de group will vote in favour of the report. however, notwithstanding its support overall for the report, with reference to amendment 1 to recital 4, the delegation does not agree that the setting of percentage targets for employment levels is an effective exercise in helping to achieve increased employment rates, but is aware that this amendment is merely a restatement of the european council's position.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, there is a romanian proverb: unde-s doi puterea creste. it means where there are two or more, we are stronger. well, there are two: bulgaria and romania recognise that they will be stronger in the european union and the european union will be stronger with romania and bulgaria. size matters. with the supranational challenges we face in today’s world, the more countries that share our values and practise good government and democracy within our union, the more able we will be to promote those values beyond it. so i salute the people of romania and bulgaria. i salute their governments, in which liberals and democrats are proud to play an important role. i salute, in particular, meglena kuneva and anca boagiu, who have conducted the detailed negotiations on behalf of their countries like a pair of swans, apparently gliding serenely across the surface of the water but with their feet paddling away ten to the dozen underneath. i express my thanks to the european commission, and in particular to commissioner rehn, for a difficult task imaginatively tackled and accomplished appropriately under a finnish presidency. we all recognise that there is unfinished business. the european union is a moving target with the acquis communautaire constantly evolving. bulgaria and romania are developing themselves. we know that democracies are sometimes run by crisis management: often problems are often not solved until they have to be solved. we acknowledge that there is only a certain elasticity in the management of public affairs. moreover, we recognise that there is a need, as in previous enlargements, for transition periods and safeguard clauses. i urge the governments and people of both countries to continue their reforms, but to those who doubt their readiness i ask, would they be better off and would we be better off with them outside? should we say ‘no’ or ‘not yet’? as the american commentator mencken once said, that ‘for every complex problem there is an answer which is clear, simple and wrong.’ leaving them outside the union would be the wrong answer. i am pleased, however, that the commission draws attention in its report to the need for greater efforts in the fight against crime and the need for more serious efforts in improving the situation of the roma people in both the countries joining us. the rule of law and social inclusion are fundaments of our union. more action needs to be taken by the governments of both countries and the commission needs to monitor that action on our behalf. what matters to the health of a society is less what it possesses than the direction in which its face is set. it seems to me that the direction of both countries is the right one. to quote from the hymn to st cyril and st methodius: ‘march ahead, oh revived people, to your future march ahead, forge your destiny of glory ...’. forge it with us. there is work to be done in romania and bulgaria to make the european union a reality. we build the european union together. it will never be built purely from the top down. it must be built from the ground up. that was perhaps summed up by the romanian writer adrian marino, when he wrote: ‘sa aducem europa, din nou, la noi acasă’ – ‘we must bring europe into our homes’. but there is work to be done in the european union, too, to convince our citizens that the cost they are paying for the accession of romania and bulgaria is not a net negative. to explain to them, as the špidla report showed us, that those countries which welcome new countries as partners gain economic benefits. to point out to them that unless we let low-cost labour come to where the investment is, then the investment will go to where the low-cost labour is. it is a win-win calculation in bringing new countries such as romania and bulgaria into the union. we will all be winners. there are some who ask whether this will be the last enlargement. i believe that our member states will be obliged to sort out europe’s constitutional challenges before new countries are taken in. i hope that is what the commission president meant when he said that this might be the last enlargement. we owe our citizens and the citizens of these two future member states the duty of sorting our europe’s constitution before we take in further countries. in conclusion, let us welcome romania and bulgaria today, not in a spirit of triumph but in a spirit of satisfaction with work well accomplished. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner rehn and the staff of dg enlargement, in particular timo summa and mrs bridget czarnota, deserve our thanks for the very professional and dedicated manner in which they have conducted their work in regard to bulgaria over many months and years. there is no doubt that bulgaria and romania have been subject to a degree of scrutiny probably unparalleled in eu history. the reasons for this are not just related to the countries concerned but are also a reflection of the growing scepticism about enlargement in certain political quarters. this is a pity. enlargement is, i hope, a vehicle for reform and change in the european union. i very much welcome the commission’s confirmation that bulgarian accession should take place on 1 january 2007. postponement would have served no useful purpose. at the same time, we are under no illusions that much remains to be done. continuing reform is needed in bulgaria, not just because of eu accession but for the sake of bulgaria and its people. the key word now is ‘transparency’ in every sector, whether it is public procurement, the appointment of officials and magistrates or whether it concerns the reasons why a particular investigation is suddenly stopped dead in its tracks. citizens need to have confidence that those in authority are acting openly for them and in their best interests. of course, many measures are still being put in place by the bulgarian authorities. i particularly welcome the recent announcement that the services of the dutch former prosecutor general have been enlisted to assist bulgaria’s own excellent prosecutor general and i would encourage other countries to come forward with similar assistance. on the subject of migration of workers, many of our countries, not least the united kingdom, have seen the consequences of a decade and more of failed and catastrophic immigration policies, largely unrelated to the european union. it is a pity that bulgaria and romania may now suffer the consequences of this. it has been a colossal task for bulgaria to recover from the effects of 50 years of communism. now we see a stable democracy, a buoyant economy, 5% growth, record foreign direct investment, a factor of regional stability and a contributor to nato. well done bulgaria – and welcome! (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i certainly agree with mrs bozkurt and mr wiersma that the resolution at present gets the balance wrong. parliament’s special role inside the accession process is surely to promote the growth of parliamentary democracy in turkey. our criticism should be constructive, designed to encourage turkey’s path to modernisation and not to block it. we are correct to stress the existing impediments to freedom of expression, but we should not put up spurious blocks to the continuation of the process that we have started. we must pace the reaction, try to be consistent and, above all, be fair, especially on cyprus and armenia. turkey’s candidature is a defining moment for the union. should there be a train crash in cyprus there would be two trains involved. one of them carries the efforts of turkey to create a viable form of european islam, where the prophet meets the enlightenment. the success of that mission will drag both islam and christianity far away from the terrible certainties of the 14th century. the second train carries european efforts to develop a strong common foreign security and defence policy, a task towards which turkey will make an extraordinary contribution. perhaps the involvement of turkey’s troops under french command in lebanon will prove to be a turning point in the life of cfsp and a welcome sign of things to come. membership for turkey will be a two-way process.
mr president, why on earth does turkey want to join the european union in the first place? perhaps it wants to join the mass ranks of the parasite nations that already live off the backs of the british and german taxpayers. perhaps it sees an opportunity to export some of its unemployed and criminals to britain. but the turks should think about the impact on their own society. only yesterday, the turkish army chief of staff, general i̇lker başbuğ, warned of the dangers posed by islamist extremists politicising religion, and pledged that the turkish army would protect the secular nature of the turkish republic. but in the past the turks have not had to contend with the european union. they may find that their islamist extremists are able to exploit the eu’s non-discrimination, equality and human rights legislation to their advantage. perhaps the turks will have to learn the hard way that membership of the european union means losing control of your own destiny.
mr president, the stated eu position and that of my party is to support turkish eu membership. but nevertheless, no one can under-estimate the challenges it poses in terms of turkey’s absorption into the eu, with its very large population and hence the political influence it will gain by joining the eu, its relative poverty and therefore demands on the structural funds, as well as its distinct and separate cultural and religious identity. given the current discussion on large-scale immigration, and in particular the challenges faced by integrating the existing muslim minorities in our countries, a major concern inevitably will be unrestricted freedom of movement of turkish workers. turkey’s membership of the organization of the islamic conference countries will certainly complicate the cfsp. recent marshall fund of germany polls in turkey have shown it to be the most anti-american and anti-israeli country amongst eu and candidate countries; but more worrying in my view is large turkish support for theocratic iran. turkey will of course have to abide by all the economic, political and human rights clauses of the copenhagen criteria before joining, and there are clear examples of continuing discrimination against christian minority rights, including the greek orthodox and syriacs, and ongoing impediments to free speech, such as article 301 of the penal code prohibiting insulting turkishness. in my view, failure by turkey to come to terms with its past, including the 1915 armenian genocide and the blockade of the republic of armenia, is deeply regrettable. but non-recognition of the republic of cyprus, where turkey continues to station troops since the 1974 invasion, and the failure to implement the ankara agreement on the enlarged customs union to allow cypriot ships to dock at turkish ports, is currently a critical issue before the european union. neither is it true that torture has completely stopped, in spite of it being banned by the state; it is still allegedly being used against kurdish insurgents, and we have heard about that from mrs flautre. we can therefore be sure that eu accession negotiations will be very lengthy, and i for one fully support the eurlings report.
mr president, a year ago labour meps warmly welcomed the opening of accession talks. we look forward to eventual turkish membership of the eu. we understand that, now that the active phase of negotiations has started, parliament needs to be frank about progress in its reports. there are serious problems, in particular with preserving freedom of expression. further reform of security services and the judicial system and further progress in implementing new human rights legislation are essential. however, our criticisms must always be balanced, fair and honest, recognising achievements as well as shortcomings. the prospect of eu membership has already empowered modernisers and human rights defenders in turkey to push for the necessary changes. we must give them our wholehearted support. we must not establish new preconditions for membership that were not applicable to other potential members and we must remain clear that negotiations are for full membership and that that is our only goal. an eu with turkey as a member state will entrench values of multiculturalism and understanding between different religions and therefore strengthen all communities.
member of the commission. i would remind the president, mr president-in-office, that commissioner olli rehn has already explained in great detail that he could not possibly stay. that was a real pity for the debate, but i have tried to replace him by presenting the arguments and answering the questions. i will of course report to olli rehn and i am sure that he will most likely be able to come and answer these questions in the next few meetings.
member of the commission. mr president, by yesterday 13 member states had officially notified the commission of their national allocation plans. in other words, about half of the projects are still pending, but it is important to stress that the notified projects already represent more than 60% of the allowances approved by the commission for the first marketing year. the member states which have notified their plans are belgium, france, germany, greece, estonia, ireland, latvia, lithuania, luxembourg, poland, slovakia, sweden and the united kingdom. the other member states must, of course, notify their plans. most of these projects are already in the preliminary stage of public consultation in several member states, including austria, cyprus, finland, italy, the netherlands, portugal and spain. several of the above member states have already made considerable progress in the relevant consultation procedures and are expected to notify their plans to the commission in the coming weeks. the commission attaches great importance to the other member states submitting their plans for the second phase as soon as possible. it has already sent letters to member states to draw their attention to the obligations they have to meet. if there are further delays, the commission will consider the possibility of initiating infringement procedures against the member states which have been late, on the basis of article 226 of the treaty. however, according to the information available to the commission, it is estimated that the last member states will have notified their plans before the end of 2006. the commission is already evaluating the notified national allocation plans and intends to take decisions on them in the autumn, i.e. within the three-month deadline for completion of the plans as provided for in the emissions trading directive. this will allow the commission to take decisions on the vast majority of the emissions trading before christmas and to complete the evaluation process by spring 2007. this will ensure a smooth and timely start of the second phase of the european union's emissions trading scheme in 2008 in all member states. the commission, of course, cannot comment on the substance of the ongoing assessments, but will use all the political and legal means at its disposal to ensure that the plans are in line with the kyoto commitments and the confirmed 2005 emissions figures, with a view to ensuring a level playing field for companies.
member of the commission. the criteria for preparing the national allocation plans for the second trading period are described in the directive. there are 12 criteria; two are very important. the first is whether the member states are on track to achieve the curtailment target and how the allocations for the emissions trading system, together with other measures, will contribute to the achievement of that target. the second is the available publicly-known data regarding the emissions. for the second trading period, we have the advantage that we have the actual emissions for 2005, which are as described previously. so these two criteria will be very important in making the national allocation plans achieve the scarcity that is needed in the market in order to give companies and installations incentives to make the right investment in cutting down carbon dioxide emissions.
can the commissioner comment on the validity and logic of a policy that compels member states to radically reduce emissions with resulting increases in eu energy prices and lower manufacturing output while, at the same time, we promote trade with and production in china, the world’s greatest polluter, with no enforceable requirements for the suppression of emissions from them. i do not object to trade with china, but i do object to the lack of compulsion upon them to reduce their emissions. in effect, are we not really trading jobs and emissions ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i welcome the fact that you will be monitoring whether the ruling is properly applied. i think it is now 21 years since this matter was raised by one of my former colleagues, hugh mcmahon, as well as mr de rossa. i wonder whether we could consider having a birthday party for the question on its 21st anniversary when it comes of age, because it appears to be proceeding exceedingly slowly.
it is just a question about airline operators. i understand that they are the ones that have to tell passengers what their rights are, but in various instances, with air france in particular, we are told that it is not up to the airline operator. what is the commission doing to make sure that airline operators take their responsibilities seriously? i had to intervene on behalf of several passengers because they were told that they would not get overnight accommodation, for instance. i told them that was wrong and that the new law said that they were entitled to that compensation.
we now continue with the debate on the report by karin jöns on the establishment of a community programme for employment and social solidarity.
i should like to thank all the speakers, 50% of whom were women. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the joint debate on- the report by agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision amending and extending decision 2001/923/ec establishing an exchange, assistance and training programme for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting (the ‘pericles’ programme) (com(2006)0243 – c6-0179/2006 – 2006/0078(cns)) (a6-0276/2006), and- the report by agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision extending to the non-participating member states the application of decision 2006/…/ec amending and extending decision 2001/923/ec establishing an exchange, assistance and training programme for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting (the ‘pericles’ programme) (com(2006)0243 – c6-0180/2006 – 2006/0079(cns)) (a6-0277/2006).
apparently the actual timetable has not been changed. however, we began the rapkay report this morning and we then went on with the continuation as foreseen in the original agenda. however, thank you for your observations. i am sorry that it caused you difficulties.
we understand your position. we will write you a letter explaining what has happened, from this perspective. thank you for your observations and i am sorry that you were put to such discomfort.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the report by panayiotis demetriou, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council framework decision on taking account of convictions in the member states of the european union in the course of new criminal proceedings (com(2005)0091 – c6-0235/2005 – 2005/0018(cns)) (a6-0268/2006).
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, in this report we see another example of the so-called beneficial crisis which gives the european union the opportunity to press forward with yet more political integration. there is indeed a problem. in london, the metropolitan police admit that most of the organised crime is now run by a variety of ethnic gangs, many of them from eu countries. this is quite apart from individual criminals who have come to britain to pursue their professions. the real problem lies with britain’s open border policy and the right of eu citizens to unhindered entry to the uk, as well as the government’s complete abdication of any control over who can and cannot come in from anywhere in the world. but the telling part of this report is the reference to the tampere european council which intends to force a european system of justice on the uk and the comment that ‘there is a long way to go until justice is procedurally, evidentially and substantially administered in a more or less similar way in all the member states’. yes, indeed there is, and long may it remain so. britain still has habeas corpus – the right to trial by jury and the presumption of innocence until proven guilty – and some of us in britain intend, and want, that we should keep those safeguards. the uk independence party’s response to this report is ‘thanks, but no thanks’.
mr president, as in the case of many eu harmonising proposals there is a certain simplistic and plausible appeal to mutual recognition of criminal convictions throughout the community. but make no mistake: it is part of a grand design for an integrated and eu-controlled criminal justice system requiring, of necessity, the subservience of national systems. for me, criminal justice matters are intrinsically national issues and must remain so. hence i welcome the resistance at last friday’s council of ministers meeting to a further surrender of the national veto. i hope it will be sustained. not only because of my opposition to the grand design of which it is part but because it diminishes the protection of my constituents against unfairness, i oppose this proposal. the savage experience of british citizens abroad confirms my view that we have much to lose from criminal justice integration. remember the spectacle made of the british plane spotters in greece. remember the appalling conviction of kevin sweeney in holland. why should it be possible for ropey convictions, secured by lesser standards than those applicable in the united kingdom, to be held against united kingdom citizens in their own country? i say they should not. therefore, i oppose this proposal. in the protection of my constituents, my watchword is ‘british standards for british citizens’.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the recommendation from the committee on regional development on the proposal for a council decision on community strategic guidelines on cohesion (11807/2006 – c6 0266/2006 – 2006/0131(avc)) (rapporteur: constanze angela krehl) (a6-0281/2006).
on behalf of the gue/ngl group . – (the speaker spoke irish)i would like to thank the commissioner for coming so frequently to parliament to discuss her proposals with us. i would like in particular to thank mrs krehl for her work to bring some improvements to the commission’s original proposal, particularly in regard to partnership, the role of cities and their hinterlands, civil society, access for the disabled and the environment. i must, however, reiterate concerns that i have raised repeatedly about earmarking, which remains central to the commission’s guidelines. it has been and will continue to be used at member state level to downgrade much of what parliament has sought to do and what people have spoken about here this evening. it champions lisbon over gothenburg and some elements of lisbon over others. in ireland, at present, there is another concern, unrelated to the guidelines, which i take this opportunity to raise. namely, that in the future ‘peace programme’ funding will be distributed in a way contrary to equality measures and equality provisions. i hope to speak to the commissioner further about this. (the speaker continued in irish)we need to remember the original reasons for these funds and programmes and to look at them again in the mid-term review. as mr beaupuy reminded us, we in ireland, north and south, experienced great benefits and great strides with the help of those funds. we have to remember our solidarity and allow other areas to do the same in the future.
mr president, first of all, cohesion funding has been very important in underpinning the success of the 2004 enlargement and, like others, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work in that area. the economic progress seen over recent years in the eu-15 member states that enjoyed cohesion funding represents something of a model for what we can do when eu resources are properly targeted and implemented. while the implementation of the lisbon agenda is largely a matter for the member states, i am nevertheless pleased that the strategic guidelines set out an ambitious programme for growth and jobs, which we hope will be realised throughout the european union. when the ten new member states joined in 2004, we welcomed their membership for various reasons, not least because those countries in central and eastern europe had marked a major milestone in their remarkably short transition from the horrors they had experienced under communism to democracy. we welcomed enlargement in the political sense. however, we also recognised that if enlargement was to work it would be necessary to provide adequate funding for the new member states in order to boost their economies, thereby creating growth and jobs. i am pleased that we are using tried and tested mechanisms of structural and cohesion funding to achieve that important goal. the united kingdom government announced last year that it would offer an extra eur 8 billion over the 2007-2013 budget period to help the new member states build their economies and societies. while my constituents in northern ireland recognised that enlargement would bring with it a financial burden on the richer member states, they were also keen to ensure that funding is allocated in ways that will bring sustainable improvement throughout the entire european union. we appreciate that the economic development of eastern europe will in the longer term bring economic advantages for all of us. as someone from northern ireland, i would just like to say that the people there were very envious of the cohesion funding received by the republic of ireland, because it certainly helped that country. it is an awful pity that parliament, the commission and the council did not listen to us in the past when we asked for cohesion funding for northern ireland.
author. – mr president, i, like mrs barsi-pataky, am also particularly concerned about the issue of timing. delay is absolutely critical, because galileo’s unique attractiveness to investors is lost once the american gps 3 system has reached operational capability, which is estimated to be in about 2015. i should be grateful if the commissioner would spell out to what extent the delay is going to be detrimental to galileo’s success in the international market for satellite navigation. i am concerned that the delay undermines galileo’s business plan in other respects as well. firstly, with the delay have come increased costs. indeed, the costs of galileo have already exceeded the budget by over 40%. secondly, the delay undermines the potential for revenue. the most important source of revenue is expected to be royalties from intellectual property rights. receiving manufacturers would pay a licence fee to the galileo-operating company in order to have their receivers galileo-enabled. but what manufacturer will want to pay a licence fee for galileo if it does not offer any added value when compared to an upgraded gps? therefore, delay to the galileo programme is not just unfortunate: it could have really grave consequences for the financial burden which is carried by the public purse. i should be very grateful if the commissioner could give us some explanation on this.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to thank mr cavada for his oral question, the opportunity for this debate, and the excellent work that he and his colleagues do in their committee. i had the honour to chair that committee at the time of the council meeting in 1999 in tampere. i have observed the process from tampere to tampere. it has been seven lean years. rather like a critic once said of samuel beckett’s play waiting for godot: ‘it is a two-act play in which nothing happens, twice.’ i salute the efforts of commissioner frattini and of the finnish presidency in trying to coax and cajole the member states forward. mr rajamäki spoke of breathing new life into the spirit of tampere. it is desperately needed. but the fact is that the country i know best threw a spanner into the works when it insisted on having three pillars. other countries are now blocking the process of repair. unless we are able to bring in the footbridge – the ‘passerelle clause’ – we will never have a credible policy in justice and home affairs. we will continue with a policy like a push-bike when what we need is a ducati. member states sit there in their medieval fastnesses with the drawbridges firmly up. in the name of national sovereignty they are enhancing global anarchy. our citizens demand better. in the early period of building the european union, political leaders were ahead of public opinion. they saw leadership as painting a vision of the europe they wanted and leading people towards it. that can be a dangerous strategy, but far less dangerous than being in the position – as you pointed out, commissioner – of being behind public opinion. our citizens are asking: why is there no immigration policy to prevent the human tragedy we see on our southern shores? why are we not sharing criminal intelligence in the fight against terrorism or the fight against drugs? why is there no access to justice for victims of cross-border crime or cross-border marital breakdown? when ministers meet, as abba eban once said in a different context, they ‘never miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity’. we want to see more emphasis on european values. we may have no constitution, but we have a charter of fundamental rights. mr rajamäki, you said that human rights are at the top of the council’s concerns and fully taken into account. are you sure? what about the cia secret prisons saga, where this house was right to set up a committee on rendition to see whether we need to use article 7? what about the pnr issue, where the 2007 agreement to replace the sticking-plaster solution you have devised this month must be in tandem with the framework decision on the protection of personal data? and what about minimum procedural guarantees for suspects in criminal proceedings: why is that issue still at the bottom of the in-tray? of course there is some progress. but too often the union looks like the mime artist marcel marceau; he appears to be climbing a wall but actually he is going nowhere. i want mr frattini and the presidency to take to the council on 6 october the message that europe demands better. (applause)
mr president, the ability to control one’s borders and decide who should be a citizen in your country is one of the most basic characteristics of a nation state, and in that regard the uk is very lucky because we are not part of the continent of europe. we are an island, we have our own natural borders and it is for that reason that i, and the vast majority of the british population, do not want immigration to be controlled at a european level, believing it far better that we organise it for ourselves. but while i am here listening to these debates i am struck that too often we are talking about immigration from third countries, from outside the european union coming in; we are not talking about what is going on between the member states. just yesterday there was an announcement that two very poor eastern european countries – romania and bulgaria – will join the eu. well, it is perfectly obvious that if you have the free movement of peoples between countries with vastly differing levels of wealth it will lead to a huge migratory flow; all of which makes me wonder how on earth commission president barroso can have decided that he is going to make a romanian the new immigration commissioner! this debate goes to the very heart of what the eu is all about, and it is becoming perfectly obvious that no nation can control its own borders, decide its own immigration policy, and at the same time remain part of the european union. when this argument gets out there amongst the peoples of europe, it will be a potentially explosive issue, because once again we have the political class here in the institutions of brussels and strasbourg heading in one direction, and public opinion demanding that you head in completely the opposite direction. you may have got away with it on previous policies, but on the question of immigration you will not. you have been warned!
mr president, here we are again. mr schulz was quite right. i dusted my 1999 speech down, mr schulz left the chamber after his speech, various other things remain just the same as they were seven years ago. there is a lot of grey hair in this chamber – not on me, of course. it is true that we have the same issues and i myself believe in pragmatic inactivity as being something we should not always be concerned about. in this particular area, at a time of great terrorist threat – and there were terrorist threats in 1999 as well – there is a very uncertain message being sent out that the presidency and the commission and, regrettably, too many of those sitting in this house then and now seem to think that the most pressing need is to bring in the passerelle under article 42. i have always had reservations about imposing a single model of justice on countries where there are different legal systems evolving in different ways. in the case of the uk, our system of civil law is the greatest legacy of the great angevin king henry ii, which developed with great success for over 800 years. equally, we have not experienced the napoleonic code imposed throughout much of europe 200 years ago. even though we cannot apply that system, we have never wished to stop others doing so where it is appropriate. even on its own terms, the move to harmonisation is flawed. the ruling in the cassis de dijon case was one of the key moments in the development of the internal market, giving precedence to the principle of mutual recognition over blanket harmonisation. the council is due to present its mid-term review of the hague programme at the end of the year. as piet hein donner, the midwife of the programme, has said, the first principle is the implementation of mutual recognition as the fundament for judicial cooperation. the programme is founded on the assumption of cooperation. cooperation should determine the dynamics and development of european collaboration. i believe that is a practical and sensible approach, one which is showing signs of success and i urge the presidency and the commission to proceed on those lines.
mr president, it is a red herring to say that we cannot get effective eu action on crime, terrorism and civil liberties without a new constitution. mr schulz, your outrage was as entertaining as ever, but it is your government and mrs klamt’s which is using that pretext from berlin. we get endless speeches and conferences saying that terrorism, racism and immigration are top challenges – which they are; but the commission still cannot tell us if states have implemented the five-year-old anti-terrorism law, and states are only just moving forward on a four-year-old proposal to tackle race hate crime. there is no common eu policy on migration. we are told today by the council that safeguarding human rights is a priority for eu governments. if that is so, how come foreign ministers were unable recently to make any formal response to president bush’s admission of cia secret prisons, just as they were unable to do anything about guantánamo for four years? this system is dysfunctional and ineffective in fighting terrorism and upholding human rights. it is a betrayal of the 21st-century security needs of what will soon be half a billion people.
thank you, your comments are noted. it is, however, a debate on the progress made in the area of freedom, security and justice. it is an annual debate, so naturally it has to be rather wide-ranging.
mr president, i am sorry to raise this yet again, but it appears that no one in parliament’s presidency is listening. we were told to arrive here for votes at noon. that has now been postponed to 12.05 and again to 12.10. i know that you are very efficient at getting business through this house, but i urge you please to inform the conference of presidents of the continuing dissatisfaction of colleagues in this house about the times of votes being changed arbitrarily, at considerable inconvenience to the way this house’s business is conducted. (applause)
we have had a very comprehensive, whole-morning debate on a single subject. there have been 63 speakers. i do not want to be discourteous either to the council or the commission, but the minister spoke for 23 minutes and 49 seconds, and the commissioner spoke for 21 minutes and 19 seconds. i am obliged to give both of them the floor now. i hope they will be brief in their remarks.
thank you, minister. i believe it was us president jackson who said ‘i like the noise of democracy’. that is what you are hearing.
i should like to thank all 63 speakers who took part in the debate. i should like to thank the minister for his brevity and the commissioner for his passion. the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow. written statements (rule 142)
i should like to take this opportunity to welcome to the distinguished visitors’ gallery members of a chinese delegation led by deputy minister qiu yuanping. (applause) mrs qiu is deputy minister of the central foreign affairs office of the people’s republic of china. the delegation is here to meet a number of political groups as well as the chairman of the committee on international trade and the chairmen of the delegation for relations with the people’s republic of china and the delegation to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. i wish them an instructive stay in the european parliament. relie huanying nimen – a warm welcome to you all!
mr president, i very much welcome the visit of the prime minister of lebanon this afternoon, but i very much regret that the question time session with the council has had to be abandoned to make room for this, with no attempt by the conference of presidents to reschedule it to another time. question time is one of the important democratic traditions of this house. it is the one opportunity we have to question the council on issues of concern to us and our constituents. it is central to our work. this is the second time this year that this session has been arbitrarily cancelled. can i urge you, please, to make sure that there is no third repeat of this. (applause)
we take note of your remarks, mr bushill-matthews.
in writing. we need to stress that cooperation rather than harmonisation must underlie any measure in this area. this report is no doubt worthy, however we need strongly to reiterate the prime importance of respecting different national legal traditions rather than following too prescriptive a path. therefore, my british conservative colleagues and i have abstained on this report.
mr president, i voted against my party's whip with regard to the capoulas santos report on the fisheries agreement with guinea-bissau. over the last seven years i have become increasingly concerned about the nature of the various fisheries agreements the european union has with many and various countries. this has been reflected in my voting up until this point. a few years ago i read the court of auditors’ report on a number of these fisheries agreements which raise particular questions and doubts as to whether there are benefits to the countries concerned. certainly there is little benefit to the local fishing communities, and certainly no benefits to the ecology of the local fisheries. i especially dislike the fact that the eu is hoovering up fishing rights on the cheap for rich and mainly spanish fishing fleets to abuse, and thus i voted against this particular report.
in writing. mr president, today we are asked to approve yet another fisheries agreement exporting our disastrous policies to a third country. these agreements do not serve development, conservation or the credibility of the eu and i shall continue to vote against them.
mr president, i did not vote on draft amending budget no 4, the pittella report. this is not because i have no respect for the rapporteur – in fact i have a huge amount of respect for mr pittella and i am quite sure that this particular adjustment in the budget is fine. but i do have a definite problem with the process: a qualified majority vote without an indication of votes, no check of votes on the floor and absolutely no scrutiny of the process behind this. i would like to reflect many of my constituents’ worries about the european budget. i was recently at meetings in both daventry and brixworth in my region, where concern was expressed that the budget is not spent or implemented properly. transferring huge amounts of money between budget lines, which does not reflect parliament’s considered political view at the time of the budget process, is a worrying development that is happening more and more. thus i did not vote on the pittella report.
in writing. like so much that we see in this chamber, the objectives of this programme are well-meant. yet i doubt that it will achieve much practical effect. the proposed budget of eur 650 million is both too much and too little: too much because such a sum, wisely used, could potentially achieve some good; too little because at about eur 1.50 for each eu citizen, it cannot make the broad-scale changes that are envisaged. most of the money will go into administration, allocation and assessment, and precious little to getting results. when will we ever learn? over and over again we see well-meaning programmes like this that fail to deliver. yet we keep trying again. it is a triumph of hope over experience. yet here we are, with yet another centralised attempt to set the world to rights. let’s be brutally honest. the main effect of this measure will be to make us in this house feel that we have ‘done something’. it will give us a glow of self-righteousness. but it will pass unnoticed amongst those it is intended to help. we are fiddling while rome burns. or perhaps i should say fiddling while the treaty of rome burns.
in writing. mr president, i congratulate our rapporteur mrs krehl on a well balanced report on this crucial issue. in scotland we have long experience of using structural funds effectively and well, and it is vital that the funds continue to evolve to meet europe’s needs. this report takes proper cognisance of developments and suggests a number of helpful steps forward and i welcome it wholeheartedly.
in writing. i voted against the rapkay report because i consider that the final text did not provide adequate support for services of general interest (public services). directives on a sectoral basis alone will only result in ‘salami slicing’ of the overall public interest and carve out sectors for business benefit. there are aspects of social services which support the educational sector, forms of housing which serve a general public interest even if not expressly dealing with a deprived social sector etc. – a sectoral approach is not enough. as we have so often done in the environmental domain, we need an overarching framework directive first, setting out the general interest before we embark on specific sectors. we can find a legal basis. it is not enough for people to say this lies within the competence of member states when those same member state governments are using market rules, the services directive and other means to achieve liberalisation by the back door. i hope those who supported the amendment on liberalisation, who voted against a horizontal directive and voted for the final report will be able to explain to their colleagues in local and regional government why they are not defending more strongly the public services their colleagues have to deliver.
in writing. i voted against the eurlings report because i remain resolutely opposed to non-european turkey obtaining membership of the eu. those who claim that movement towards membership will induce turkey into full democratic and human rights compliance are shown, even by the lack of appreciable progress conceded by this report, to be lamentably wrong. on reform, human rights, religious freedom, cyprus, armenia we have obtained nothing, but in return we have wasted, and will continue to waste, millions on pre-accession aid. not for the first time, the eu is being taken for a ride. the eu's lust for endless enlargement is driven by a craving for ego-building world status, which goes hand in hand with the drive for super-statehood through the rejected constitution. turkey's membership, even wider enlargement and the constitution are all part of the same grand design.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and i support the principle of turkish accession to the european union upon completion of the accession negotiations and provided that turkey meets the necessary standards in terms of human rights, the functioning of the democratic system, respect for minorities and coming to terms with its past.
in writing. i voted against amendment 51 from my own group to paragraph 50 of mr eurlings' report on turkey's progress towards accession. i did that with some regret, but the consequence of the amendment passing would have been to delete the reference to the assyrian community, amongst others. as someone who has consistently complained that the plight and even existence of the assyrian community is being ignored in iraq, it would be hypocritical of me to collude in exactly the same way for the case of turkey. i did the same for the other amendments to this paragraph.
in writing. i welcome this report on the accession of turkey. the report commends the opening of the active phase of negotiations and the completion of the first chapter of science and technology as well as the resumption of legislative change in turkey through the ninth package of legislative reform. despite welcoming all of these advancements, i regret the fact that turkey has not fully addressed the cyprus issue. the cyprus issue needs to be settled conclusively before turkish accession; it is essential that turkey recognises all member states of the european union.
in writing. mr president, i welcome this realistic report, though do think it could have been stronger. i in principle support turkey’s eventual accession provided they have taken reform seriously and faced up to their past. i do not believe that they have, and it is up to us to keep the pressure up. on the recognition of the armenian genocide and on treatment of the kurds in particular i believe this report could have been more uncompromising, though on balance i support the findings and congratulate our rapporteur on a major piece of work.
in writing. recognising that turkey’s accession negotiations will take many years and that substantial reform is needed, there are many elements of the eurlings report that i can support. nevertheless, the report is excessively negative and very unbalanced, particularly in relation to the cyprus issue, where there is no recognition of turkish cypriot support for the annan plan or of the eu’s unfulfilled promise to end the isolation of northern cyprus. there is also no call for any constructive movement on the part of the republic of cyprus, which is left to determine the pace of turkey’s accession negotiations (according to recital b) and whose interests even intrude into nato, where turkey is then blamed for making difficulties (paragraph 54). furthermore, future enlargement of the eu is specifically linked to the revival of the eu constitutional process, to which i fundamentally object. on this basis i abstained.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i have to say that in both the council and commission statements i detect a rather worrying element of complacency. you cannot talk of working with general bashir and hoping that in the future we can persuade him. i have followed the situation in sudan for many years and i can confirm that would not be realistic at this time in particular. the future of the people of darfur is now in the balance, just as much as it was before the agreement on maintaining the au force until 30 september 2006. the government of khartoum is answerable to nobody. it is patently failing to allow humanitarian access to some three million people in darfur. what will the international community do? you are not telling me what you will do to hold the government in khartoum to account. in three months, or even earlier, the un force must be ready to deploy, because the au will start to pull out. the confusion about the future of the african union is very serious: it is underfunded, overstretched and finding it very difficult to operate. a united nations force must be deployed as quickly as possible, with a stronger mandate than it has now, and it must be capable of protecting the vulnerable and traumatised people of darfur who are currently under such terrible threat. no deadlines have been met by the sudanese. their genocidal strategy is moving forward. there is no ceasefire to monitor any more. it is pointless to talk about the peace agreement: it is finished. we said ‘never again’ in 1994 after rwanda, and what we face now is the first genocide of the 21st century, unless we end this complacency and do something. you talked about the key players. there are key players: china, russia and the arab league are also complicit in this. one last important point: you did not talk about the need for the imposition of a no-fly zone. there have been 13 un resolutions, each of which has called for a no-fly zone. not for a moment has this ever been imposed. what are you going to do, council, what are you going to do, commission, to ensure that those antonov planes do not continue to fly over the villages of darfur dropping bombs on those innocent civilians? i urge you to think seriously about the imposition of a no-fly zone. could you not consider using the french jets that are currently in neighbouring chad to monitor the airspace and stop the sudanese from terrorising the people of darfur?
mr president, the situation in darfur is extremely grave. the government of sudan is pouring its troops into the region and the extension of the african union’s mandate by three months is only a breathing space. the population of darfur still faces the prospect of so-called security being provided solely by the sudanese government, with no international protection. those of us from parliament who visited darfur in 2004 saw with our own eyes razed houses scattered with empty shell cases. that was all that was left of a village bombed by the sudanese government in the name of security. even as recently as last week, a sudanese government antonov plane was bombing villages in north darfur. if there is no international presence in darfur there will be a total massacre, notwithstanding all the hand-wringing and assertions of ‘never again’ after rwanda. that is why the presence of the un force, as authorised by resolution 1706, is so vital. there is no more urgent task for international diplomacy than to work with russian and china to isolate sudan and impose a un presence in darfur. the eu-china statement on 11 september was encouraging, but it needs to be built on. i would ask the council what steps it is taking to achieve that. for its part, the african union has said that an africa-dominated un force in darfur is absolutely necessary. on the worsening humanitarian situation, a growing number of places have become no-go areas for ngos because of the current fighting. at the same time, the number of people dependent upon humanitarian assistance has risen to nearly 3 million. this month more than 30 new cases of cholera have been reported. without true peace, the humanitarian effort will collapse and hundreds of thousands of people who fled their homes to save their lives will now once again face death.
rapporteur. – mr president, as the geopolitical centre of gravity shifts to asia in the 21st century, if you look at india you see the future. considering its size and complexity, india’s stable and vibrant society remains a monumental achievement. its commitment to democracy, pluralism and the rule of law guarantees consistency in trade relations. yet, for a country approaching a fifth of the world’s population, india counts for less than one fiftieth of world trade. as india’s largest trading partner and principal source of foreign investment, the eu is poised to help india reap the benefits of liberalisation. with our shared history and commitment to secular government and religious pluralism, the eu and india are natural partners. we became strategic partners in june 2004, yet it was another year before a joint action plan was agreed. even today, the commissioner lacks the authorisation to turn the work of the high-level trade groups into a concrete deal. in the meantime, president bush has succeeded in brokering a quite frankly worrying us-india nuclear deal. the commissioner claims india as his destination of choice – and of course i mean commissioner mandelson here – yet has fuelled eu obsession with china. india poses equal, if distinct, challenges for the eu and the commission must reflect that as it lays out its new strategy by working with stakeholders to mirror its china consultation. the doha round remains the chief mechanism for shaping equitable globalisation. the multilateral trading system is a most just and effective way of expanding and managing trade and it shields the weak from the use and abuse in the unilateral scramble for trade domination. however, a doha deal does not preclude bilateral wto-plus arrangements. only through greater openness to partnerships that go beyond what a lowest common denominator wto deal could now provide, will the eu begin to address the global competitiveness agenda of the future. a free trade agreement with india must be central to the commission’s new global europe strategy. this house must back the commissioner 100% as he makes the case to the council for a negotiating mandate to deliver bilateral ftas, opening markets and securing fairer trading conditions in new areas of growth throughout asia. india must match our resolve and bolster its promises for helsinki. india has proved itself adept at juggling global players to boost competitiveness. it is time for a deal with its most obvious partner. deadlines must be set so that we can achieve common ambitions in the areas that will dictate the terms of the 21st century: protection of intellectual property rights, open markets for services and investment, and effective trade defence instruments. no strategy for economic growth is complete without addressing the growing crisis of climate change. the impact of growth in asia on energy supply is phenomenal. india’s future growth is dependent on meeting spiralling energy needs. severe shortages and over-dependency on petrol and coal are driving up costs and pollution. an effort to develop nuclear energy is symptomatic of that crisis. however, even if india did develop nuclear energy it would meet only 2% of total energy requirements. it would also constitute a climb-down from gleneagles pledges to halt climate change and promote energy conservation. both india and the eu have long traditions of promoting renewable energy. india has built the world’s fourth largest wind power industry, developed biogas digesters and solar cells and supported the development of renewable energy in asia. we must work together to define the global energy architecture through innovation and sustainable energy development whilst meeting climate change benchmarks. india’s economic growth is booming at 8% and is set to double in a decade. dotcom benefactors make up india’s rich list, cashing in as india becomes the global hub for itc development. yet india’s economy remains full of paradoxes. the uneven distribution of the benefits of globalisation has left nearly four million people living on less than one dollar per day. the eu must ensure that the benefits of our trading relationship are shared with indians – all of them. international trade can be a powerful driver of economic growth and poverty reduction but it is not a silver bullet. to continue to lift people out of pockets of poverty, india’s trade reforms must complement development policies. linking external and internal policies is not aided by india’s infrastructure, which displays characteristics of a developing nation while seats of enterprise dominate the skylines of mumbai and bangalore. investment must focus on rural areas, providing better water supplies and sanitation, improving transport links and the quality of grid power output. india is committed to the millennium development goals and its own five-year plan exceeds un expectations, but there is increased doubt that india will meet four out of the eight goals on schedule. serious concerns remain over child labour and the spread of hiv/aids has a potential to disrupt india’s progress. trade relations cannot be divorced from human rights and development concerns. we have a duty to india to reverse those trends. eu assistance must be directed to lagging regions and under-represented social groups. capacity-building efforts must focus on the poorest states, enabling them to use funds effectively. foreign investment must provide funds for education and rural health. as india moves from developing to developed, it bears regional responsibility and sustained growth. it must take its neighbours with it. safta will bring manifold expansion in the region. true, it has not been smooth sailing and indo-pak disputes have stalled progress, but strong leadership in the region has led to trade now being used as a confidence-building measure, particularly over kashmir. europe must look at asia and consider its astonishing growth as an opportunity rather than a threat. the eu needs more confidence about its ability to manage change and remain competitive. inevitably it will require some restructuring and a change of mindset.
mr president, let me add my congratulations to mr karim on an excellent report. as his report clearly demonstrates, when we are discussing india, the first problem is to decide which india we are discussing. is it the india with nearly four million households earning over eur 150 000 a year and with more graduates than any other country? or is it the india with 390 million people living on less than a dollar a day, where two out of five of people are illiterate and where the so-called it revolution only touches one in fifty indians? i hope, as a parliament, we are interested in both. if india overcomes its infrastructure problems, most notably its persistent power cuts and poor transport networks, then i believe that within a generation it has the potential to be europe’s largest trading partner, more important than china or the united states. i therefore welcome what commissioner borg said about the high level trade group’s recommendations. i believe we should intensify our trade and investment relations with india. however, at this stage, i agree with mrs mann and mr papastamkos that we should stop short of a free-trade area, because we would not want india to be used as an example to denigrate the prospect of a successful dda outcome. we must put our eggs in the dda basket first and foremost, and anything else should be seen as a digression from that. mr papastamkos rightly points out that 77% of indian goods come into the eu market duty-free through the gsp. the gsp places an obligation on india to improve its core labour standards. india must do more to tackle child labour and bonded labour, and must sign up to ilo convention 98 on the right to organise and the right to collective bargaining. india signed up to the millennium development goals and the eu, with our cooperation, should help by facilitating universal education, eurohealth programmes and policies to get young people from poor areas into work. i believe that trade and development go hand in hand, but only if we work at it. it will not be automatic. we must have the political will to deliver on both. i welcome the report’s emphasis on both those aspects of our relations with india.
mr president, the eu’s strategic partnership with democratic india is of vital importance for both the eu and india. i welcome the strengthening of political and economic dialogue and engagement as well as discussions on human rights at the india-eu summit on 13 october. however, given the astonishing recent growth of india’s economy and its emerging global big-power status, our partnership must now deepen. therefore i strongly favour a bilateral india-eu free trade agreement. that would have mutually beneficial results as our economies are complementary, as india needs our high-tech finished products and we need their services and basic machinery. we are already india’s biggest trading partner, at some eur 40 billion annually, and we collaborate now on high-tech projects such as galileo and iter, demonstrating the sophistication of india’s 8% annual growth economy. i also call for enhanced regional cooperation and economic integration of india and pakistan with saarc and safta, which enhances the confidence-building measures between the two states which, until recently, were on the verge of war. the line of control between the divided regions of jammu and kashmir could eventually be just a line on the map, if people, goods and services could flow freely. pakistan should desist from its restrictive positive list of freely traded goods and change to a more liberal negative list as expected by mfn and safta rules. india is fast becoming the prime south-asian geopolitical player and it is high time that the un security council admitted the largest democracy in the world to its ranks as a permanent member. china is our second largest trading partner, but the eu does not share the same fundamental values with it as we do with india. that fact needs greater recognition in this house. coming from britain, with our traditional links to india, i commend the karim report and call on the commission to develop a much deeper political and economic india-eu relationship culminating in a bilateral free trade agreement.
mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr karim on the excellent and extensive report on the eu’s economic and trade relations with india. we neglect the relationship with india, with its opportunities for both india and europe, to our mutual cost. in the future, if the eu concentrates more of its efforts on economic policy instead of other distractions, i see the potential for a massive free-trading alliance. the united kingdom, with its historic links, will play a key role in this development. i am therefore delighted that the british conservative leader, david cameron, is devoting particular attention to relations with india. he seized the opportunity while with the business community in mumbai recently to set out his views on globalisation. he also touched on the challenge of terrorism. terrorism is the curse of our age. if afflicts many european countries. it has become a tragic fact of life in india as well, not just in kashmir but in mumbai where 200 people were murdered in july and in malegaon on 8 september 2006, where some 40 people were killed. the precise responsibility for these attacks is still unclear, but there is strong suspicion of external involvement. post-9/11, pakistan has helped the democracies to fight terrorism along its western border with afghanistan, but it has done precious little to dismantle the infrastructure of terrorism on its eastern border with india or to control the extremist madrassas that provide the hotbed in which terrorists are cultivated. in order to proceed with the welcome and ongoing peace process between india and pakistan, pakistan must implement the solemn assurances it has given to stop all cross-border terrorism and to deliver on the words of president musharraf in this parliament on 12 september 2006. as one of the great democracies, india attracts the rage of extremists. this threat can be defeated only by the concerted efforts of our nations and agencies working together in close cooperation. i welcome the opportunities we have for deep engagement with india and for india’s wider regional role.
first, let me congratulate mr karim on his report on eu-india trade relations. in contrast to last month’s debate on eu-china relations, his work and report have been a model of cooperation and consensus and my group and i will be supporting his report. i only have to apologise that i will be absent for tomorrow’s vote, as i will be attending the labour party conference in manchester. i have one general comment and two specific points on the report. first, we in the pse group do not want any hint that a bilateral fta can substitute for a successful completion of the doha development round. we know india is committed in this regard, but not all meps share that commitment. secondly, while i offered a guarded welcome to back liberalisation, i share some of mr markov’s concerns as to the social impact on small farmers and businesses as preferential lending will end. if mr markov’s amendment had been more judiciously phrased it would have gained my support. thirdly, i do not welcome india’s involvement in iter. i believe the whole iter programme is mistaken and would have been delighted if it had gone to japan so they would have wasted more of their money and we less of ours. i can only commiserate with the people of india.
given the strong ties which exist between my own member state and india, i am naturally keen that the eu does all in its power to help india realise its enormous potential for economic development. having had the privilege to visit india on a number of occasions, i have been deeply impressed by the rate of economic development there over recent years and particularly in key 21st century industries such as information technology. i am pleased at the progress which was made in building dialogue at the sixth india-eu summit last year. improving economic and trade relations will prove to be of mutual benefit to both the eu and india, but it is essential that a key objective of our contribution to economic development is the eradication of poverty. this must be maintained as a top priority of our strategic partnership. i congratulate the rapporteur on his report.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, fishing-dependent communities in scotland have suffered a drastic downturn in their economic wellbeing in recent years, directly as a result of political decisions made under the common fisheries policy – decisions made with the active cooperation of the scottish and the uk governments. large numbers of vessels have been forcibly scrapped, the remainder are forcibly restricted to ports for half of each month; and, on top of all that, fuel prices have drastically increased. the effect on fishing communities, on the families who depend upon the catching and processing sectors, has been very serious and very stressful. regrettably, scotland’s coastal communities continue to suffer while its own government repeatedly declines to make use of available opportunities to make financial assistance available. our rapporteur takes the view that greater decentralisation of the cfp would be an improvement, and i agree that would be a step in the right direction. however, ultimately, i regret to say that the cfp is destined to fail; and the scrapping of the cfp, coupled with a change in government in scotland, is the only hope for fishing communities in the long-term future in scotland.
madam chairman, i share the disappointment expressed in this report at the inadequacy of the commission’s response to the crisis in the fishing industry, but i will not pretend to be surprised. for the commission, socio-economic pressures are, i fear, something to be exploited rather than alleviated, because fundamentally, in pursuit of the common fisheries policy the commission desires savage reduction in fishing effort. mr commissioner, deny it as you will, but is that not the truth of the matter that these socio-economic pressures help you attain that goal? there can be no doubting the depth of the crisis, with, across the eu, a 35% fall in jobs in ten years, falling prices, falling catches, a 40% dependence on imports, and a 100% hike in fuel prices in the last two years. there is no doubt about any of that, but there is much room to doubt the worth of the commission’s response. such permitted assistance as there is in that response, is for many regions, particularly in the united kingdom, likely to be more theoretical than real because of national governments’ resistance to match funding or any form of state aid. here, commissioner, we come to a matter i would like you to focus on: a glaring flaw in the common fisheries policy. how can you deliver a common fisheries policy if some governments avail of options and some do not? oh yes, we all get to share the downside of binding cfp regulations and quotas and restrictions, but not all get to share the upside which flows from permitted assistance. the result is a fisheries policy of disparity, not of commonality; and until the commission and this house find a way to address that issue, even its modest proposals here will accentuate the difference between the haves and the have-nots under the common fisheries policy.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i would like to thank mr maat for his report. i believe that when we look at fisheries, especially at catching plaice and sole – and basically they are mixed fisheries because other species are being caught, cod included – we have to be much more radical than we are at the moment. the commissioner knows that full well and i have raised the issue of discards in general with him several times. let us land all the fish that are caught, instead of having so many species quotas with the result that a lot of healthy fish are discarded. of all the problems with the common fisheries policy, throwing healthy fish overboard is the one that the general public in europe see as particularly ridiculous. i also think we must be sure that powers are devolved to the north sea advisory council and that the commission takes notice of it. mr maat made the point that it is no good the commission coming up with a proposal before it has taken note of what the north sea advisory council has said. that gives people the impression that the commission is not listening. i also think that with the age-old problem of stocks in general there is always a conflict between the scientific advice and what the fishermen believe the stocks to be. it is not always easy to come to a conclusion. my final point is – and i stress the need to be more radical – that i think the way forward is to look at the total quotas of fish caught and see if we cannot change that into days at sea and fishing effort, so that we can land all the fish caught.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, given the state of our seas, the commissioner’s first priority should be to save the fish. when safe biological limits are being exceeded, we all expect action and i commend the action that is being taken. i also commend the attempt to move towards a policy of achieving maximum sustainable yields. i do not see how anyone can be opposed to that. it is like apple pie and motherhood. the difficulty is how we move from the present disaster to future perfection, without disrupting the lives and occupations of fishermen to an impossible degree. that is my doubt about this particular policy. the purpose of the regional advisory councils is to try and ensure that fishermen are integrated into the process. so when their advice seems to be being ignored, it may be the wrong advice. perhaps that is the commission’s fault for not communicating the message. it is the opportunity for greater long-term prosperity. fishermen, as we all know, need to be included in the process. i agree with the commissioner when he says that we must go for only one-year quotas. the danger is that if we set a quota at the wrong level, in three years’ time there may be no more fish to set the next quota for.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, for centuries british fishermen looked after their fishing grounds – the waters up to 200 miles off the coast. they achieved a sustainable industry by care, not by chance. then we joined the ec, and that all changed. the wretched cfp, with its bureaucratic plans, crazy quotas and enforced discards has reduced stocks to their lowest level ever, closed fishing ports and reduced the uk fishing fleet to a quarter of its size. many species are down to danger levels – plaice and sole today, something else tomorrow. and to think that the cfp was not even in the treaty of rome: it was invented overnight to let edward heath have something to give away in exchange for the right to sign! now, in answer to the desperate shortage of fish in the north sea, all we hear about is too many boats chasing too few fish – i’ll say! they are mostly boats from spain, which has a fleet as big as the rest of the eu put together. no wonder the norwegians said no! they saw it coming, and with their fishing industry such a boost to their economy, they were right. norwegian stocks remain in good order. are there any lessons for the cfp there? this report will do nothing. while the management plan acknowledges the north sea advisory council, it ignores its findings. it is inconsistent in departing from similar decisions in areas like the bay of biscay, and it is based on a maximum sustainable yield before that is even defined. this report is well named, for ‘exploitation’ is exactly what has happened to the once abundant north sea fisheries. tell me: who benefits from the destruction of the richest waters of western europe?
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i am delighted that the uk government was one of the key supporters of council regulation (ec) no 1185/2003 concerning the disgusting practice of removing shark fins on board vessels. the regulation is designed to prevent shark finning, where shark carcasses are thrown overboard after high-value shark fins have been removed. you could call this ‘slit and chuck’. without their fins, the sharks suffocate to death. the practice of shark finning is known to endanger the survival of several shark species. only today american researchers using fish auction records from hong kong have calculated that the trade in shark fins kills 26 million to 73 million sharks a year. against this background, i am appalled and disappointed that this report threatens an increase in shark finning. paragraph 5 of the report requests an increase of the 5% fin- to live-weight ratio to 6.5%, particularly for blue sharks. paragraph 3 of the report incorrectly implies that ices and iccat support an increase in fin- to live-weight ratio for the blue shark. a paper was submitted to ices in 2005, but ices has not considered this paper or issued an opinion. the same goes for iccat, where scientists have reviewed fin to carcass ratios but have not recommended an increase of the ratio. amendment 1 is placed first on the voting list, and i recommend support for it. i fear that the european parliament may not give its support to any of these amendments, a retrograde step, and i ask colleagues to say no to ‘slit and chuck’.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we can argue whether a 5% ratio of fin weight to body weight is appropriate or whether a larger proportion is needed. i have no doubt that an increase would be wrong, but no doubt the spanish and portuguese fishing interests would argue the other way. i hope parliament will be able to support my proposal for a study based on best scientific evidence before any decision is made. i hope it will do that not simply because it represents a compromise in those positions but because it is the most appropriate way forward. so far as i am concerned, the whole shark fin regulation has always been too weak. it was far too weak when we introduced it. enforcement is problematic to say the least and, as in so many aspects of fishing, varies from one member state to another. it certainly needs to be reviewed at regular intervals. the idea that we should just have one review and that is the end of it, as originally intended, is simply nonsense. i hope the commissioner will support the idea of more regular reviews, just as i support him in opposing the idea that quotas should be set for long periods of time. the real issue here is so much bigger. we face the prospect of the extinction of many shark species – slow-breathing creatures that have lived on this planet for many millennia longer than our own species. the risk is that with this particular regulation we are simply playing at the edges. we are killing too many sharks. we have to stop that. we need the commission to come forward with a shark management action plan. we have heard from the commissioner why it will take time to do that, but i seem to remember joining with other members of parliament in calling for this some three years ago. i hope that the commissioner will be able to finish this debate by telling us exactly how much work has already been done over the past three years in preparing the groundwork for publication of the shark management action plan. my impression is that absolutely nothing has been done. i hope the commissioner can correct that impression.
mr president, the uk, germany and belgium fought very hard to implement a ban on shark finning in 2003. they received wide support in the council. spain and portugal now appear to be the only member states pushing for an amendment to the regulation in respect of the 5% ratio of fins to live weight of shark catch. they say that the current regulation is unrealistic, particularly for the blue shark, which is the main target of their fishery and which they claim is in great abundance in eu waters. i think the strong international market for shark fins, mostly as we have just heard for the asian shark fin soup market, coupled with the relatively low value of shark meat, has motivated spain and portugal to support this drastic amendment. it remains a fact that the 5% ratio of fins to live weight contained in eu legislation is the weakest in the world, as mr davies told us. the proposal in this report for a 6.5% ratio would quite simply allow more sharks to be killed. it would send all the wrong negative signals to the international community. the higher the ratio, the more likely it is that the illegal practice of finning will recur. that is why i have tabled an amendment which proposes that the figure be lowered to 2% of live weight. that would ensure the protection of sharks in eu waters, increase that protection and fall in line with international standards. the iucn, the world conservation union, has confirmed that the blue shark is endangered and will be placed on its red list as a vulnerable species when that list is updated later this year. in such circumstances, it would be madness to permit more of these sharks to be killed. indeed, we should be seeking to impose a strict regime of tacs and quotas on blue sharks to offer the species additional protection.
mr president, i also welcome the commissioner's statement at the beginning that he wants at least to remain at the 5% level of finning for the present. i believe – along with mr stevenson, and we have tabled an amendment to this effect – that instead of leaving it at 5% we need to reduce it to 2%. to take it up to 6.5% would only encourage the catching and finning of more and more sharks. over 70 million sharks are taken each year and we really need to reduce the number. to increase it to 6.5% would be crazy. we in europe very much want a sustainable fisheries policy. we also want high welfare standards. if you increase the percentage of shark fins that can be landed, the chances of increasing the number of sharks caught and of finning are greater. we need to set an example to the world. in most parts of the world the percentage of fins that can be landed by fishing is lower. i therefore urge the commissioner to go further and reduce the percentage of fins that can be landed. however much more valuable shark fins are than the rest of the body, it is absolutely right that the whole of the body should be landed and used. it is crazy to carry on as we do when nearly 50% of the 130 species of shark are now endangered. we must take action.
mr president, i should like to thank mr graefe zu baringdorf for a very good report and the commissioner for being here at such a late hour. i should like to ask you, mr president, to give the commissioner enough time to sum up properly at the end of the debate. as she is good enough to come here at this time, we should finish our debate properly. concerning organic farming and organic products, i want to stress that people are increasingly buying organic produce, which is to be welcomed. however, they naturally expect those products to be organic, not to be produced with chemicals or chemical fertilisers. one of the problems with organic food is the difficultly of testing it to see how it has been produced. it is very important, therefore, to monitor production in the countries from which we import organic produce. one problem i foresee with organic production generally, not only in europe but also outside, is that one of these days a tv documentary will be shown following this food production process from beginning to end that finds that the food is perhaps not as organic as it is believed to be. that will turn people off the whole process. it is important, therefore, that people are absolutely certain when they buy a product imported from outside the european union that those high standards of organic production have been met. this report and the commission’s work are therefore very important, not only for imported organic food but also with regard to ensuring a completely level playing field across europe in terms of the definition of organic products. that way, consumers can buy them with great confidence and we in the farming community can produce them with great confidence. i should like to thank the commissioner again and shall leave her a few seconds to sum up.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr ransdorf, my colleague and vice-president of the committee on industry, research and energy, for his excellent report. i would like to affirm my group’s general support for his report and for the commission’s proposal. nanosciences and nanotechnologies are very important for the future of the economy and society. they hold huge promise for industrial and other applications. it is a very exciting technology in all sorts of areas. as a measure of the priority we are giving to nanosciences and nanotechnologies in europe, i note that this topic is a significant theme in the seventh framework programme. i welcome this action plan. having said that, i wish to enter a note of regret at the rather negative and fearful approach characterised in the verts/ale group’s amendments. it is a pity to react against imagined risks, merely because they are in something that is so small as to be difficult to identify, or even, dare i say, to understand. or perhaps that just applies to simple souls like myself. i would urge caution, therefore, on the requirements for labelling in advance of scientific evidence and on applying the precautionary principle. if we always applied this principle, then innovation, invention and inquiry would all go out the window and we would make no progress at all. i also want to enter a reserve on the issue of whether nanoparticles should be included in reach. let us be quite clear that many known particles are part of existing chemical stock and should therefore be treated under that category. we have enough problems with reach without adding to them on a very small level. finally, i shall end on a note of optimism and remind colleagues of the old saying ‘out of little acorns grow huge oaks’. i hope my party at home is listening to that remark.
mr president, on a point of order, i wish to protest at the address made by prime minister siniora of lebanon to the conference of presidents yesterday. he made a totally biased, one-sided address and there was no catch-the-eye opportunity to reply to what he said. it was all stitched up by the political groups – fair enough, perhaps. but i would ask the conference of presidents, in the interests of fair and balanced reporting, to issue an invitation to the prime minister or foreign minister of israel, so that we can hear the other side of the story. (loud applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to insert after the word ‘tandem’ the following text: ‘with trade negotiations; notes that consideration of items on the positive and negative lists is currently before the safta council’, and then we proceed with the text as is.
in writing. my british conservative colleagues and i have supported this report, but we fundamentally disagree with paragraph 58 of this report, which calls on member states to work towards 'a single voting constituency', i.e. one seat representing the eu at the international monetary fund. however, as this paragraph is merely a 'recollection' of a previously held position we are able to support the report.
in writing. i congratulate our rapporteur on this report, which has a number of excellent initiatives to better target aid. the eu has a great story to tell on international development, often considerably more impressive than most member states. however, we could do better, much better, and this report has a number of good ideas which i am happy to support.
in writing. i welcome this detailed report on the possibilities and challenges which face the eu and india in seeking closer bilateral trade relations. i fully agree with the rapporteur’s call to stress the strategic importance of trade relations with india, given its impressive economic development and its status as a leader of the g20 at the world trade organisation. as the country prospers internationally, the gap between the rich and the poor within its borders is widening and i therefore support this report’s emphasis on tackling trade and development issues together. india has a responsibility to its citizens to enforce core labour standards and meet environmental standards. at the same time, the eu as a global leader and a principle trading partner of india must work with the indian authorities to ensure that the generalised system of preferences can continue to support indian industry and that a delicate balance can be found between the need to enforce international rules on intellectual property and making sure that traditional knowledge and access to medicines for poverty-related diseases can be maintained.
in writing. whilst voting for the report, the eplp wishes to record that it welcomes the role of the north sea regional advisory council as a provider of advice and an important element in consultation under the cfp. the eplp also regrets that the report did not more closely acknowledge the link between actions taken in managing plaice and sole stocks in the north sea and the scope of the cod recovery plan. north sea cod stock recovery levels are poor and it is vital that all aspects of fisheries that impact upon it remain under the scope of the cod recovery plan.
in writing. i am delighted to congratulate my group colleague on this report. organic food is a growth market in scotland but confidence in the standards applied in the sector is of paramount importance if we are to see the sector develop. this report goes in the right direction, but we as the eu need to go further and officially underline support for organic farming and ways to protect it and promote it.
in writing. although this motion is on the topic of a common approach to immigration in europe, it can be supported because of its strong reaffirmation of the competences and responsibilities of individual member states and because it underlines the need for cooperation not harmonisation.
in writing. the situation in darfur deteriorates before our eyes, and it is heartbreaking how powerless we are in the face of such aggression. i have followed closely the negotiation of this resolution, and do support it, albeit i would like to see us do more.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, as it recognises the vital yet often overlooked role of women in supporting economies across the world. it finds that inequality continues to exist between women and men both within and outside the european union in terms of their opportunities to pursue education and work. at the same time, the report draws attention to the important fact that so-called 'women’s work', including caring for the family and providing social care, has been traditionally unrecognised and unremunerated. the fact is that women already contribute significantly in economic terms in both the public and private spheres. many international trade and development policies have in the past failed to recognise the extent to which women in developing countries engage in income-related activities and control the household budget. i therefore welcome and support calls for policies to encourage greater economic participation by women with the aim of further improving their status and boosting their income and assets. i also support the report’s recommendation that eu member states should follow norway’s example in providing for a 40% quota in female representation on the boards of its joint-stock companies.
in writing. the report acknowledges the economic difficulties facing the sector. however, to maintain a consistent position on the major problems facing the fishing industry – over-capacity and over-fishing – the eplp wishes to record its disagreement with the position adopted by the report on four issues: 1. scrapping and decommissioning – the eplp believes that this should be an option within strategies to deal with fisheries over-capacity. 2. proposed increase in de minimis aid, payments that can be paid to the fishing industry for measures that would otherwise be deemed to distort competition or increase capacity – the report called for an increase to raise the level to eur 100 000. the commission suggested eur 30 000 and the eplp advocates a more cautious approach. 3. engine replacement and the european fisheries fund – the report has been overtaken by the compromise agreement on the eff but the eplp maintains its view that there should not be subsidy for vessels or engine replacement. 4. subsidy/compensation mechanisms – the report suggests these but does not acknowledge the role this plays in fuelling over-capacity in fishing.
in writing. the eplp warmly welcomed council regulation (ec) no 1185/2003 on the removal of shark fins on vessels as important for fish conservation purposes. the regulation is designed to prevent shark finning where shark carcasses are thrown overboard after high-value shark fins have been removed. the practice of shark finning is known to endanger the survival of several shark species. against this background the eplp is appalled and disappointed that the miguélez ramos report before us threatens to increase shark finning. paragraph 5 of the report requests an increase of the 5% fin to live weight ratio to 6.5%, particularly for blue sharks. paragraph 3 of the report incorrectly implies that ices and icatt support an increase in the fins to live weight ratio for the blue shark. a paper was submitted to ices in 2005, but ices has not considered this paper or issued an opinion. likewise in icatt where scientists have reviewed fin to carcass ratios but have not recommended an increase of the fin to carcass ratio. the eplp supported those amendments which would help to get rid of the barbaric practice of shark finning. - amendment 1 which would suspend any change in the fin to carcass ratio pending a review; (…) (abbreviated in accordance with rule 163(1) of the rules of procedure)
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, commissioner, as you know, i attended the patent consultation day. i made my own submission and i have read many of the others and i think that what you have just given us is a very fair summary. i would also like to thank you for having moved that consultation day to a day that did not clash with a strasbourg session, so that i and other meps were able to attend. it was a very useful exercise, because it has shown the extent of the problems with the community patent proposals. translations, as we knew, were a problem but now it shows that the need for a litigation system, with specialist judges that are accessible within member states, is another. we all want single market considerations to prevail and that leads eventually to having a community patent, but the consultation shows that there are steps that can be taken to improve the process. the epla initiative by member states, which is optional, embraces some of those steps. it is still work in progress, so now there is an opportunity for you to participate and i welcome the fact that you say you are going to take that opportunity. that can only be helpful in working towards a goal in which there is eventually a single or merged european and community patent system. maybe you can help to fix some of the criticisms of epla. one fix i would like is to minimise court fees, rather than force litigants to bear all the costs of judges’ salaries and the establishment costs of the appeal court. a second fix i would like is the retention of national patent courts, instead of phasing them out after seven years. surely they could remain, in the same way that national patent filings have now coexisted with european patents for nearly 30 years. on the other hand, the possibility of having nationally based courts of first instance and a panel of judges, with at least one who is technically qualified and at least two who are legally qualified and from different member states, might be superior to the current ecj arrangements, were they to apply to a community patent. mr rocard and some others have criticised epla, since it would allow epo board of appeal members to become technical judges. that objection is based solely upon not agreeing with particular decisions in one or two areas of technology. it takes no account of the publicly available record showing that technical boards of the epo are independent of both the epo examining division and epo practices. it ignores the fact that, in the epla structure, such technical judges would be in the minority among national judges who have been praised by those of the same persuasion as mr rocard for their stance in those areas of technology. however, i question whether we would want them to be able to have the two jobs at once – i do not think that was intended – and i think that could be clarified. also, the appointment of judges via representatives from member state governments follows the precedents of many institutions, including the ecj, so i do not think there is huge substance in these arguments and it would certainly be a mistake for the commission to miss out on contributing to and learning from the epla process.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, last year parliament rejected by 684 votes to 14 an attempt to impose patents on software, because, like books and all written materials, software is best described as ‘ideas in symbolic form’ and should continue to be subject only to copyright. parliament was also persuaded that patenting software would stifle invention, cripple small businesses and harm the economy, and yet this year the commission returns with an even more sweeping proposal, which would permit software to be patented. the proposal is for a single patent court, whose judiciary would be appointed by the same board as that which appoints judges to the present appeals court of the existing – purely advisory – european patent office. the commission has a seat on the board and, under this proposal, would acquire voting rights as well. this raises serious doubts about the independence of the new court, especially when we consider that the epo has no scruples about issuing patents for software and that this proposal commits a single patent court to following the precedents set by previous epo decisions. by the proposal’s own admission, litigation in this new court will be two to three times more costly than litigation in national patent courts, which this proposal will also abolish, thus putting appeal to this court beyond the reach of all but large corporations. i thought the computer-implemented inventions directive was bad until i saw this proposal. if it goes through, i shall gladly take the leninist view that worse is better. nevertheless, we should say no again and ask the commissioners what part of no they do not understand.
i have grave doubts about the proposals for a system of patent courts that would be at arm’s length both from democratic institutions and from proper judicial review. the draft resolution on the european patent litigation agreement could, if implemented, place patent disputes in the hands of these who have a vested interest in a very wide use of patents, it would lead to extra costs for sme, cause an explosion in litigation and potentially restrict innovation in europe. supporters of the epla make reference to the usa’s central federal patent court, but this system has led to excessive use of patent, and a considerable volume of litigation and malicious threats of litigation.
mr president, it is indeed chilling to think of the possible consequences of the totalitarian, stalinist regime in north korea now having a nuclear capacity. quite apart from the opportunity for direct aggressive use, an aspect which would alarm me is that north korea may now be in the marketplace with crazed terrorist groups for the export of nuclear devices and technology. north korea is already heavily involved in, and indeed reliant upon, multiple illegal export businesses, including drugs and, especially, counterfeit currency, and this is on a massive scale. if it were now to be in the marketplace for selling nuclear technology, then we all have very great reason to fear, for those in the terrorist world who would seek such technology know no constraints in their lust for killing. i think it is a very alarming prospect that we could have rogue use by a rogue state selling nuclear technology to rogue elements. it behoves the eu, and more particularly the more relevant united nations, to be extremely robust and resolute in handling this crisis. mere condemnation is unlikely to be anything like enough. i have no doubt that severe sanctions will be required.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, madam president-in-office, liberals and democrats wish you well for lahti. a presidency in the second half of the year is never easy, and informal talks with 25 heads of government round a table are difficult to imagine. i bet you cannot even fit them all into one sauna! on your agenda there will be important matters as diverse as energy, innovation and migration, although, as you say, the real story will be entertaining the president of the russian federation. we believe that the member states must stand foursquare behind the union flag in condemning attacks on freedom and private property in a country where one more candle of independent thought has just been extinguished. mr putin has clearly studied machiavelli’s dictum: ‘princes who have achieved great things have been those who have given their word lightly, who have known how to trick men with their cunning and who have overcome those abiding by honest principles.’ while president putin concedes that his country is tarnished by the murder of anna politkovskaya, he fails to add that 40 other journalists have been murdered in his country in recent years. (applause) liberals and democrats pay tribute to anna politkovskaya. among her criticisms of the state of freedom and democracy in russia, she wrote, in a book called putin’s russia: life in a failing democracy, ‘yes, stability has come to russia. it is a monstrous stability under which nobody seeks justice in law courts, which flaunt their subservience and partisanship, nobody in his or her right mind seeks protection from the institutions entrusted with maintaining law and order because they are totally corrupt. lynch law is the order of the day. the president himself,’ she continues, ‘has set an example by wrecking our major oil company, yukos, after having jailed its chief executive, mikhail khodorkovsky. putin considered khodorkovsky to have slighted him personally, so he retaliated.’ madam president-in-office, russia needs the european union just as much as the european union needs russia. they need our market for oil and gas. we are their biggest customer. so let our heads of state and government talk to mr putin about oil and gas, but do not have them mince their words about an increasingly dictatorial regime. let them also prepare for life without dependency on russia through joined-up thinking on energy and the environment. in a week in which al gore has promoted his film on the ‘inconvenient truth’ of climate change, our energy policy must in any case reflect an urgent need for a change of direction. lahti is a follow-up to hampton court a year ago, where leaders approved plans to create a european energy market, raise competitiveness and educational levels and tackle the growing pressure of migration. in the past 12 months, the urgency for action in all those areas has increased. the commission has rightly identified the needs, but member states continue to deny the means. the commission proposes a genuine internal market in energy, unbundling networks as we did with telecoms, creating an observatory to monitor stocks, developing a more sustainable energy mix, making energy savings. we welcome these proposals, but we need the council to get on with them. mr barroso wants a european institute for technology. get on with it, if you can raise the money! migration is presented, on the one hand, with data showing we need to encourage migration of labour and skills, and, on the other, with media headlines stoking populist fears of uninvited guest workers taking away jobs and benefits. to succeed the council must act effectively, for which it needs the provisions of the article 43 ‘bridging clause’. i hope the finnish presidency will continue to press for this. we support the finnish presidency and its modest and pragmatic approach to eu business. however, madam president-in-office, we fear you are being eclipsed already by the forthcoming german presidency. issues are being postponed; foreign leaders are courting mrs merkel. the german foreign ministry is taking the lead. let us not raise excessively high expectations of what germany can deliver, nor lower our expectations of what the finnish presidency can achieve. the presidency needs to show that, in the words of the monty python song, ‘finland has it all’!
madam president, i am very happy that the president-in-office has confirmed that discussions at lahti will centre on the whole question of energy. like the last speaker, mr lundgren, i hope that climate change will also be a core part of these discussions. the protection of the citizen and his or her environment needs to be put at the centre of energy policy. climate change and its possible repercussions, air pollution in cities, the deterioration of the urban environment and all the other pollution nuisances of which we are aware have a strong impact on our citizens in their everyday lives in economic, social and health terms. we know that the planet is now 0.6oc warmer today than it was a hundred years ago. we know that by 2020 our environment will have warmed up by another 0.8oc. that global warming will lead to extraordinary weather conditions such as storms, extra rain and floods. we hear from the experts that water levels could rise by up to a metre. if that happens, countries like bangladesh and – nearer to home – the netherlands will face catastrophe. this is how important it is. last winter we witnessed a crisis in ukraine – who will witness another crisis this evening when they play scotland at football! – and we saw the first interruption in our gas supplies for 40 years. we get 22% of our gas from russia, and this is a dangerous position for the eu to be in because, following that crisis last year, we discovered that some of the newer member states only had 24 hours of reserve supplies. as mr barroso said on the subject of immigration, in terms of energy we cannot go on with 25 – soon to be 27 – disparate and completely separate energy policies. we have to centralise and have a coherent energy policy run from the centre. (applause)
madam president, well, here we go again: another heads of state summit, another discussion about our competitiveness – or, should i say, lack of competitiveness – and another complete waste of time! we have been here before haven’t we? do you remember, in march 2000, the lisbon agenda? i sat here and i heard this wonderful pronouncement that the eu was going to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. it is not going very well, is it, mr barroso? i do not think you are going to meet those targets in the course of the next three and a half years! and then we heard it last summer, when mr blair came here. he stood up and told us that we had to face the challenge of globalisation, and we could only do that if europe became competitive, if we started to invest more money in research and development. and, of course, nothing has happened again. if you really want to improve competitiveness, then what you will do this weekend is look at the 91 000 pages of close-type legislation that make up the acquis communautaire and decide to get rid of a substantial chunk of it. if you were serious about making europe competitive, if you were serious about moving into the modern world, that is what you would do. i am amused that denmark is to be the economic study for the weekend. well, i understand that, because they have got the highest rate of employment in the european union. i wonder whether that is because they have got their own currency – they are able to manage their own fiscal and monetary policy. in fact, unemployment figures outside the eurozone are half those inside the eurozone. so the real conclusion this weekend is that we should be doing far less at european level, because everything the eu touches turns to disaster.
i want to focus my remarks on one of the key topics for the summit: innovation. i notice that not many speakers have talked about it today. i just want to encourage both the president-in-office and president barroso to make sure that this remains at the heart of the discussions. as you pointed out, president barroso, there could not be a better place than finland to have that discussion. i was pleased that in both your speeches you talked about the main competition coming from china, india and the other asian economies. we have to start looking outside and to start building on the real strengths of our technology. one of the things i particularly want to appeal to you to promote in your summit – something with which to engage europe’s leaders – is to energise and use the power of public authorities. they are spending billions of euros of public money on developing new services, but i do not think that many of them are thinking about how they use that money to generate innovation and to push forward the new products and services that european industry and companies are willing to provide. let us take nokia as a good example, because you will be in finland, the home of nokia, for your summit. wireless networks, wireless innovation, wireless services: these are the sort of things that we should be developing for health, for education, for raising the quality of public services, for transforming the quality of experience the citizens have in interacting with us. that is something that i would like you to put firmly on your agenda with the european leaders, because if we can achieve that we will make some serious moves forward. we know that other countries are doing that, particularly the united states. in conclusion, i notice, president barroso, that we see your european institute of technology on the agenda. i hope you will convince us that it is a worthwhile investment. i am not yet convinced, because i think many universities are already doing what you want to do – it is a lot of money. let us put innovation at the heart of what we do at the summit, and i hope that you will give it the importance that it deserves.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the commissioner. it is not a perfect agreement. when compromises have to be made, agreements are never perfect, but, as mrs in 't veld said, it was either an agreement or no agreement. if there was no agreement, we would have had data anarchy and certainly no eu-wide protection for our citizens. i want to associate myself fully with the comments of mr cavada, who i believe has taken a really constructive approach. we need to look at what is happening with pnr and we need to look at what is happening with swift – incidentally, the memorandum of understanding that swift managed to negotiate is a good basis upon which to build any future negotiations. but we can see it also as an opportunity to create this so-called schengen transatlantic area, because we will come up against these problems time and time again. however, i should like to say to this house that nothing is being imposed on us. the choice is ours. if we wish to travel to the united states, we will have to abide by conditions set by the united states. if we want to set up a business in the united states, exactly the same principle applies. we have to negotiate for our common good and this interim agreement is a step in that direction. congratulations, commissioner! the easiest thing in the world is to knock something; the hardest is to support it. well done.
mr president, the presidency said that the final outcome is a success, but i say it is a sell-out. we are told that data protection will be in compliance with relevant european standards, but i read in paragraph 3 that the americans will process data in accordance with applicable us laws, and in paragraph 1 that data will be handed over as required by the department of homeland security. then we have the accompanying us side letter which says that they will interpret the agreement as laid down by president bush’s executive decrees on data sharing and access by other agencies. this is a complete assertion of us jurisdiction, so i would like to ask commissioner fratini to tell us whether he accepts this accompanying us side letter as an intrinsic part of the agreement. paragraph 6 of the agreement says that the department of homeland security is ‘deemed’ to ensure an adequate level of data protection. now what on earth does ‘deemed’ mean? paragraph 1 says that we are relying on us continued implementation of the undertakings as interpreted in the light of subsequent events. so we are at the mercy of events to tell us if the us will respect its undertakings! so the presidency assertion that the earlier undertakings continue to apply is baseless. the commission and the council say that the agreement delivers legal certainty for eu citizens. i agree with this only in one respect: the certainty that their legal rights have been sold down the river, or rather across the pond. this is not theoretical; we have heard all this year on the temporary committee on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners, regarding people about whom soft information has been transferred to the united states that has become hard information, leading to people being rendered to places like syria and tortured for months or years or incarcerated in guantánamo bay. this is not theoretical.
mrs lehtomäki has had to return to finland – data-free – because it is the indian summit tomorrow, so there will be no reply from the council in this debate.
i should like to thank the commissioner and all colleagues who took part in that important debate. the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the definitive results of the anti-dumping investigation concerning footwear from china and vietnam, by enrique barón crespo, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-0096/2006 – b6-0432/2006).
i should like to apologise to mr barón crespo that i gave the speaking order incorrectly. he should of course have had the floor first in order to put the question to the commission. mr mandelson is not present for the reasons commissioner rehn has explained. he is flying with minister lehtomäki to finland for the eu-india summit.
your point is very well made, mr barón crespo, and your own experience as president will tell you how difficult it is to keep some of our speakers to their speaking time. i note that in earlier debates this afternoon mr frattini and mr barroso spoke jointly for more than 42 minutes. i cannot apologise on behalf of mr mandelson, but i think mr rehn has explained the situation. i am sure your remarks will be conveyed to mr mandelson by mr rehn.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, frankly i am dismayed by this decision to impose tariffs on shoes for two reasons: firstly, because a large number of european consumers are going to be asked to pay more for their footwear in order to bring dubious benefits to a small number of european producers. i particularly regret the fact that children’s footwear has been included in this. if you are a relatively low-paid parent of a young child, who has to buy new footwear regularly, this imposition is a serious one and i regret that we have taken this action. the second reason i am dismayed is the way the majority in council was allegedly – and i say allegedly because i have no hard proof of this – put together. i understand that latvia was persuaded to change its vote, which was nothing to do with shoes, but because italy promised then not to vote for gsp sanctions on belarus. because latvia trades extensively with belarus, this was a big hook for the latvians. that sort of horse-trading, if it is true, brings both the european union as a whole and the council in particular into disrepute.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, may i first of all associate myself with the comments of complaint that were raised by mr barón crespo. commissioner, the eu’s move last week to slap duties on the imports of shoes from china and vietnam not only went against the will of the majority of europe – a number of member states have clearly undertaken horse-trading and have now abandoned their declared positions – it has also raised the possibility of the eu being reprimanded before the wto as many question the factual and legal basis of the commission’s investigation. protectionism was the fuel behind this short-sighted, sticking-plaster measure. duties are quick fixes which only hurt those eu industries that have actually adapted to the global economy. britain’s clarks shoes, for example, has first of all shown foresight, in relocating production of shoes to china and vietnam; responsibility, in diversifying into retail outlets in the uk, where they now employ more people than they ever employed in shoemaking; and, not least, understanding, in recognising the commission’s difficulties and trying to work with you and not against you. yet, because of last week’s ill-thought-out measures, clarks is now being penalised for all three, as european retailers and consumers are now expected to foot the bill for an ailing italian manufacturing industry. it is short-sighted, too, for whilst commissioner mandelson is rolling out his plans for stronger bilateral links with emerging economies in asia, it has incensed the chinese, cut across eu-sponsored poverty reduction and hunger eradication programmes in vietnam and shown an eu protectionist red flag to the region. i fear that commissioner mandelson’s review of the eu’s anti-dumping rules comes a year too late. the naming and shaming of retailers who do not forward the benefit of cheap imports to the consumer is a smokescreen for the commission’s poor management of the challenges of globalisation. on this one, the commission has failed miserably.
mr president, the impact of these tariffs will be to increase shoe prices for my constituents in london at a time when families, especially those on lower incomes, are already facing higher energy bills. with these tariffs, the eu has effectively levied a tax on consumers in a vain attempt to protect shoe manufacturers in certain countries who need to face up to the fact that they cannot produce shoes more cheaply than asian countries. globalisation is a reality; we in europe should not be burying our head in the sand and hiding from it. the most successful european companies have embraced globalisation and outsourced low-value manufacturing to china and vietnam. we are also deluding ourselves if we believe that duties imposed on chinese and vietnamese shoes will lead to more european jobs. retailers will simply fill the gaps with more imports from other countries such as india and indonesia, and indeed this has been shown to be the case. when will we realise that free trade is good for european consumers and creates more and better jobs in the long run? it may be painful for some, but the eu will gain in the longer term.
thank you, your remarks are noted. that concludes the debate. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by jelko kacin, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2667/2000 on the european agency for reconstruction (com(2006)0162 – c6-0170/2006 – 2006/0057(cns)) (a6-0285/2006).
i should like to thank the commissioner and all the speakers in that debate. i should also like to thank the interpreters for their patience. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00. (the sitting was suspended at 20.50 and resumed at 21.05)
mr president, next week a libe committee delegation will visit algeria. however, one of the algerian visa requirements is the absence of an israeli visa passport stamp. mr gaubert noticed this and was rightly appalled at this blatant anti-semitism. he demanded an explanation. the matter was referred to you, mr president, and you were asked to make representations to the algerians. i understand that you refused to do so, saying it was a matter for individual meps. mr gaubert has quite rightly refused to go on the trip. this raises two important issues. first, why has the european union sent almost one billion euro to algeria since 1996, when that country is implementing a blatantly anti-semitic policy? the eu should stop these payments immediately. the second issue is the apparent dereliction of duty by you, mr president, when you could have made a stand against algeria’s anti-semitism, backed by the weight of your office. please reconsider and rectify this situation.
mr president, so vast is the range of the initiatives proposed in this document that it should keep the eu bureaucrats happily beavering away for the next 20 years. however, let us examine one of the high points of the eu’s record on animal welfare. in 2001, during the infamous foot-and-mouth outbreak, seven million animals were destroyed in britain under the eu’s direction; most of them were healthy. i well remember the huge funeral pyres of burning animals. the eu stubbornly refused to allow vaccination, which would have been in the best interests of the welfare of both the animals and british agriculture. it preferred instead the legally questionable and morally unjustifiable scorched-earth approach. therefore, i do not believe that the eu is in any position to claim the moral high ground on animal welfare and to lecture the member states about it, never mind the rest of the world, as this lofty document claims it will. we have everything in this report, including the setting-up of an animal protection information forum. doubtless, this will be another highly expensive quango. who is going to pay for it? the taxpayers. who is going to have to do all the paperwork? the farmers, who can barely cope with the current red tape. this document is obsessed with standardisation and uniformity. it appears to take no account of the widely differing farming cultures and climates to be found in countries as diverse as portugal and sweden. it takes no account of the already high standards of animal welfare in britain. it is predicated around the central thesis that the eu can do it better, but that is not so.
thank you, mr president, thank you, commissioner, and thank you, mrs jeggle, for a very good report, because it is essential that we look after animals in europe. actually, we have a very good record here because we have high production standards, but we need to be very much consumer-driven. i agree with one of the previous speakers who said that the consumer must have the choice and must be able to see the labels and be absolutely sure of that production. if you go into a supermarket and look at a free-range chicken or an organic chicken or an intensively-farmed broiler chicken, you can actually see no difference between them. you have to be absolutely confident that the label is right. not only does it have to be right for the production that we have here in europe, but it also has to be right for the production that comes in from outside europe as well. so consumers have to be very confident of the labelling. we also have to see a reduction in animals used for testing, and that is where we have to be very careful with european legislation as well, because, if we are not careful, reach may actually increase the number of animals tested unnecessarily. can i refer to mr titford and put him right on one or two things? first of all, he sees european bureaucrats under every bed, i think, but, as far as foot-and-mouth is concerned, it was the uk government that was absolutely determined to slaughter. it was the uk government that was so worried that a general election was being delayed that they had what was called the ‘contiguous cull’, which slaughtered millions of animals unnecessarily. in the netherlands, they actually carried out vaccinations to try and stop the mass funeral pyres. so, mr titford, it was not the european union that had a problem with foot-and-mouth disease: it was the uk government.
i welcome this debate. the eu has slowly but surely improved the welfare of animals through a number of measures relating to the housing and transportation of animals. we now have to build on this and develop quantifiable animal welfare indicators and create a formal framework for animal welfare impact assessments for future eu policies. we should also look at the introduction of an eu labelling scheme to identify products produced from higher welfare standard systems to enable consumers to make informed choices. finally, as a member of the committee on international trade, i would place particular emphasis on establishing internationally recognised animal welfare standards for trade.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for the way in which he has worked so cooperatively with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on this. from mr pirker’s contribution, you will see that mrs gál has had to do an enormous amount of work in her own group and i congratulate her on the work she has done to bring people together. let me just say to mr pirker that we have an expression in the united kingdom that you put your money where your mouth is. the easiest thing in the world is to say that you are ‘concerned’ or you are ‘committed’; it is much harder to follow it through and give the resources in order to achieve the outcome that we all hope for. we often say ‘red tape’ when what we mean is that we do not want to stop people from doing something that they should not. in this case, when it comes to empowering human rights’ defenders, red tape is absolutely necessary and, i would say, brilliant. when it comes to cost, if, again, we say we value something and we put no resources behind it, we expose our hypocrisy. so that is why i ask mrs gál to continue her excellent work. i believe we will reach a compromise with the council, because the commission has shown that it is willing to try to initiate that compromise. let me also say to the council of europe that, although i fully understand its concerns, you cannot have too many human rights’ defenders in the field of defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms. with this agency we are not replicating what the council of europe does; we also have obligations in the union, specifically under the treaties: the treaty on european union and, of course, the charter of fundamental rights. we have seen in very recent months and, indeed, over the last year, worrying hate-speak used by politicians in certain parts of the union. we have seen a rise not only in hate-speak but also in racist, xenophobic and homophobic violence, and the council has done nothing when it comes to articles 6 and 7. in the absence of action by the council, is it any wonder that we need an agency that will monitor, report and bring forward recommendations and thereby hold every single member state to its international obligations? it makes sense. finally, let me say this: if we see one individual attacked because of religion, sexual orientation, gender, ethnicity, whatever, and we stand back and do nothing then we create the conditions that brought about the second world war. this institution in particular was built out of the ashes of the second world war with a commitment that we would never turn our eyes or ourselves away from the appalling violence that man commits upon man.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, i am delighted to congratulate parliament’s two rapporteurs, mrs gál and mrs kósáné kovács, for the excellent work that they have done, and also to congratulate commissioner frattini for the forceful way in which he has supported this exercise. having been not so happy with him in a debate yesterday on pnr, i am very happy with him now. i would also like to have addressed my thanks to the council, but of course they are not here. this fundamental rights agency is not just another european body. i believe that it will help reassure eu citizens that human rights are being upheld by the ‘brussels bureaucrats’ and by eu governments when they are implementing european law. it will thus increase confidence in the european union, and i think it is therefore a very appropriate 50th birthday present for the european union to give itself in the run-up to march 2007. i hope it will also help stop ‘gold-plating’ of eu directives, which some governments are rather prone to. they take a european law and when they transpose it into national law, they add things which have been sitting in a drawer in a ministry. hopefully, we might see some curbing of that. but it is also essential to include matters of justice, security and policing, since, by their nature, police, judicial cooperation and criminal law measures, however desirable, are the most likely to raise concerns about human rights. for instance, we have the european arrest warrant but we still do not have the accompanying procedural guarantees for people facing charge and trial, which have long been promised. i do not believe that this undermines the council of europe, and i fully agree with michael cashman on this: it intensifies the support for human rights in europe, but we also need to include competence in relation to articles 6 and 7 of the treaty. we have to intensify the peer review and monitoring function for human rights within the european union if we are to increase mutual trust and, therefore, provide a basis for mutual recognition of judicial decisions.
mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mrs gál on her hard work, but i am afraid that i also have to strike a rather discordant note in these discussions. as a former member of the convention on the charter of fundamental rights, i obviously have no problem with the development of human rights, but i have a problem with this proposal. i think this agency is unnecessary; if its powers were to be effective they could only be delivered either under a european constitution, which certainly is not imminent now, or some other legal treaty base, which it certainly will not have. the charter has always been contradictory, in my view, to the council of europe convention on human rights, which also covers many countries outside the eu. the articles are very different in each case. whatever anyone says, a new proliferation of european agencies and their functions will cause not only an overlap but also an unnecessary increase in bureaucracy. it will, of course, be expensive, and i would remind mr cashman, who says ‘put your money where your mouth is’, that this is not my money or his money – it is the money of the european citizens, and we have an obligation to be very careful indeed about how we spend their money when we take initiatives of this kind. the current body on which, if it goes ahead, this will be built – the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia – has not actually shown itself to be that objective or that positive in its work. i have raised in this house on a number of occasions the issue in 2003 of the suppression of the anti-semitism report. there was a lot of discussion about that, and it clearly showed that there was not the objectivity needed when looking at human or fundamental rights, but a rather subjective approach by a number of officials. i do not want to end up in a situation where we have not only conflict between two agencies – one of the council of europe and one of our own – but also a lack of objectivity in the handling of cases which, undoubtedly, are always going to be sensitive. i think we have to be very careful. we can certainly have our dreams and hopes for the improvement of human rights, not only in the european union but particularly in those states, such as russia and elsewhere, where they are clearly now being ignored. however, it is important that we do not increase the number of agencies merely for the sake of it on a political basis. we should look at our existing agencies and our powers of persuasion at the highest level and use them to the full before we take this new adventure.
mr president, last week’s gem in this place was that europol be given fresh powers to police euroland whilst europol itself was placed above the law. even the third reich did not think of that one. this week is even better: an agency for fundamental rights has been conceived to ensure that member states comply with the charter. but this was contained in a failed eu constitution. after all, france and holland exercised their fundamental right to say ‘no’ to this and yet again you are trying to sneak large parts of the constitution in through the back door. mrs gál even begins her statement by saying that the suspension of the constitution-making process makes this the right moment to promote fundamental rights. is that what you said? the politburo would be pleased with that. in fact, if fundamental rights really meant anything in the eu, the democratic rejection of the constitution would make this absolutely the wrong moment to bring forward such a proposal. there was i believe an old glen miller song beginning: ‘sleepy time gal, you’re turning night into day’. you may believe that you can turn ‘no’ into ‘yes’, but when the sleepy time voters wake up, they will soon throw this out.
rapporteur. – mr president, according to our rules, after a rejection of a legislative proposal, it should be referred back to committee. the aim of such a referral is to try and find an acceptable solution for parliament. unfortunately, in this specific case, a referral may be meaningless as the council will not be able to change its position. at the same time, it is not the intention of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to impede the council in taking its decision – as the committee can do according to the legal base in the treaty. what we intend to do is to send our political message to the council that europol should be strengthened and founded on a sound legal base according to the eu treaties in the same way that eurojust is constituted. given that this message is clearly stated in the legislative resolutions, may i propose that you put them directly to the vote with my recommendation to vote in favour.
rapporteur. – mr president, the same statement as before. so i recommend voting for the legislative resolution.
in writing. i fully support the strategy that my friend claude moraes outlined in the house during the vote. hopefully we have sent a political message to the council without blocking the legislation.
in writing. i fully support the approach to this report outlined by my friend claude moraes during the vote in the house. we will hopefully send an important political signal to council without blocking the legislation.
in writing. i welcome this legislation, which concerns the transformation of the european union monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia into a fully fledged agency for fundamental rights. the aim is to have an independent body which monitors in a continuous and systematic manner the conformity of national and european laws against established international human rights norms. the fundamental rights agency will in turn be able to draft reports and opinions for the eu institutions and provide guidance and opinions. member states and eu institutions will not be bound by its findings.
in writing. i voted for this report, which contains many sensible suggestions for improving the welfare of animals. however, we must not only set high welfare standards, we must also enforce them. the enforcement of our existing laws on animal welfare is far too patchy. the commission needs to challenge member states to properly implement the law with improved inspection and the application of sanctions.
in writing. in general i welcome this report, which promotes the relaunching and strengthening of the bi-regional strategic partnership with mercosur. it aims to reinforce regional integration as a priority dimension of support for development in latin america, recognising the principles of ‘less than full reciprocity’ and ‘special and differential treatment’ depending on the levels of development and sectoral competitiveness of the two regions. it also advocates gradual and reciprocal liberalisation of trade. i feel, however, that there should be some caution in liberalising services (particularly public services). there should at all times be recognition of the specific needs of developing countries. if applied in a timely and gradual manner, liberalisation has the key to unlock commercial potential and stimulate economic growth to the satisfaction of both parties. but it is not an end in itself and should not be seen as a panacea for all the problems that our partners face.
mr president, this is not the first time i have pointed out that whenever somebody suddenly wants to find some extra time from somewhere on the agenda, it always seems to be question time that is the victim. that is not fair. i believe that if question time starts half an hour later, it should continue for an extra half an hour at the end. that is my proposal. (applause)
mr president, the remarks by my colleague, mr manders, did not come over very clearly via the interpretation. what we are talking about is a question to the commission on gambling and relevant infringement procedures. i am a coordinator on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, as is mr manders. as the joint authors of this question, we understood that it was going to be on the agenda tonight when mr mccreevy was here, and that was approved through the system. i am astonished to find that it has apparently been withdrawn at the request of the conference of presidents and i cannot understand why. nobody has talked to me or mr manders as the authors of the question, or to any of my colleagues. mr mccreevy from the commission is ready to answer the question and yet for some inexplicable reason the conference of presidents has totally removed it from the agenda. perhaps you can explain why? (applause)
mr president, could i request, as a matter of courtesy, that the committee responsible for preparing this question – which was voted on in committee – should be informed of concerns before they come to you, so that we have a chance to talk about it. after all, we are the ones who have asked for it. we spent a long time carefully drafting the question and the commissioner is ready to answer it. so why was it taken off the agenda without any consultation? we are responsible in the committee for the questions and we do not expect the conference of presidents to overrule us unilaterally on a very technical matter. (applause)
mr president, perhaps i could urge mr turmes to raise the matter in committee first, which might be the more appropriate route to take, rather than seeking to turn this matter into an urgency, when i suspect it is not. i would welcome the opportunity to have the matter discussed in committee first, before we burden the house with it.
mr president, this is more in the form of a question to you. i am aware that mr borrell fontelles wrote to mr barroso and mr vanhanen, requesting that they communicate the names and portfolios of the two new commissioners from bulgaria and romania to this house by 23 october. i would like to know whether we have heard anything about that and whether we expect the names and portfolios to be communicated to us this week.
mr president, i want to ask the presidency of parliament as well as meps across the spectrum to continue to press for the eu, as well as the uk authorities, to try to persuade president musharraf of pakistan urgently to use his powers to pardon or at least commute the sentence of mirza tahir hussain. mr hussain is a dual british-pakistani citizen who has been on death row for 18 years, convicted of a murder of which he has always protested his innocence. indeed, he was only convicted in the islamic sharia courts after having been acquitted in the normal secular courts. we learned last week that the date for his execution had been postponed for another two months, putting it beyond the date this week when the heir to the british throne, the prince of wales, makes an official visit to pakistan. however, i urge everyone to keep up their efforts to persuade president musharraf to use his undoubted powers under the constitution to resolve this situation in the sense of justice and not just postpone the execution.
mr president, on 20 august 1989, on the river thames, the gravel dredger bowbelle collided with the pleasure cruiser marchioness and 51 people lost their lives. that tragedy resulted in the government implementing stricter safety requirements for those navigating on the river thames. these safety regulations are now in danger of being diluted as a direct result of the government’s intention to implement eu directive 96/50/ec. the current united kingdom standards will be replaced by much lower standards under a harmonised european boatmaster’s licence. however, this is not necessary, as the same directive allows, under article 3(2), for member states to apply exemptions on national waterways and issue boatmaster’s certificates under their own conditions. i therefore call on all united kingdom meps to write to the minister, dr stephen ladyman, asking him, in the interests of higher safety standards on the river thames, to apply the derogation allowed under the directive.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30.
the next item is the report by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, on behalf of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality, on women’s immigration: the role and place of immigrant women in the european union (2006/2010(ini)) (a6-0307/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00. written statement (rule 142)
the next item is the report by paulo casaca, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the recovery of community funds (2005/2163(ini)) (a6-0303/2006).
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i believe this report is a long and drawn-out justification for the creation of a european public prosecutor. indeed, judging by mr casaca’s tone, he is positively affronted to find that the law of a member state should ever prevail over the commission: heaven forbid! according to this document, to get round the problem we should create a law officer with authority to overrule the laws of member states. this is to be done ‘in the interests of a more joined-up procedure’, and the other vital reason quoted is to help reduce complexity. as a staunch defender of the national state, i strongly oppose the creation of a european public prosecutor and anyone in this chamber who sincerely believes in democracy rather than just paying it lip service should oppose it too. i particularly call upon meps from my country to stand with me in defence of british law.
member of the commission. mr president, allow me to address two measures proposed by the commission on which parliament will vote tomorrow. they concern the postponement of the decision on the equivalence of third country accounting standards – we aim to reach that decision by july 2008 – and the general implementation measures for the transparency directive. i would first like to thank the rapporteurs for their efficient and helpful work on these important and sensitive matters. along with the committee on economic and monetary affairs, they have worked very constructively with the commission and all parties concerned. the careful work of parliament has demonstrably improved the legal texts. i would also like to thank the committee of european securities regulators for its excellent work. the draft measures now represent a balanced and efficient solution. firstly, on equivalence: postponing our decision on equivalence will not only ensure that eu markets remain open while work on convergence is ongoing, but will also allow us to work actively with united states and other third country authorities towards the elimination of reconciliation requirements for eu issuers abroad. this is and will remain our number one objective. the additional two years will enable us to align the equivalence decision with the securities and exchange commission's timeline in its roadmap towards eliminating the need for reconciliation between ifrs and us gaap. the united states authorities are committed to working towards the recognition of equivalence of ifrs and us gaap. with the new timing of the equivalence decisions, we will be able to work in parallel towards common agreed objectives. in this context, it is important to emphasise that nothing is predetermined. we will decide on equivalence by mid-2008, in the light of progress in convergence, and it is certainly not a foregone conclusion that any specific gaap will 'pass the test'. it has always been our priority to keep our options open. i know that parliament shares that objective. before 1 january 2008, we will have decided on both a definition of equivalence and the equivalence mechanism. this will be done by way of comitology, with the full involvement of parliament. exemption for issuers of professional securities from the need to provide narrative description of differences between third country gaaps and ifrs remains an issue of concern. we know that parliament has doubts about this amendment. its aim is strictly to remove the ambiguity in the existing prospectus regulation. we regret that we were alerted about this ambiguity only a few weeks ago, but we are convinced that this amendment is necessary to ensure legal certainty. secondly, on the transparency measures: the transparency directive is a major step towards integrated european financial markets that investors and the public can trust. to achieve this, it is important to complete the transparency obligations by adopting the commission implementing measures today under your consideration. parliament has made several proposals to the commission for improving this text, which i appreciate. the commission is ready to accept the substance of most of them, unless this is not possible for technical reasons. in particular, parliament raised questions on the notification to be made by market makers indicating their intention to make use of one of the exceptions to the directive. the commission prefers a solution that limits the administrative burden, and therefore the cost, for market makers. this is why the commission is in favour of market makers filing this notification with their own competent authority only, instead of with potentially 25 authorities. i believe this solution fits perfectly with the simplification agenda that the commission supports.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, in this era of globalisation we often bemoan europe’s laggardness in setting global standards. however, international financial reporting standards (ifrs) are essentially a european project incorporating a principles-based system of accounting. much of the world will adopt that european accountancy standard. it is appropriate that we allow third countries the time to adapt, but 1 january 2009 is surely long enough a delay for that purpose. until now our european companies have had to adapt to us general accounting principles while we accepted us generally accepted accounting principles (gaap) in europe. with ifrs there is no reason for that discrimination to continue. i am glad that the american authorities are intent on meeting the deadline for agreeing equivalence. they even seem increasingly persuaded of the advantages of principles-based accounting. nevertheless, finding commonality between a strict rules-based system and a more flexible principles-based system is not simple. both sides of the atlantic agree that equivalence, rather than strict convergence, will be a suitable outcome. that is why we call upon the commission to stick to the january 2008 deadline to define what equivalence will be, so as to make the ultimate time limit of 1 january 2009 a strict time limit. any third-country companies reporting in the european union from that date on will have to report either in ifrs or an accounting system that is agreed to be equivalent, and that agreement will be reciprocal. european accounts, in accordance with ifrs, will be accepted without adjustment in the us and other consenting third countries. that will help european companies to cut costs and compete for capital in a globalised marketplace. my group looks to the commission to pay due attention to the proposals in our joint resolution and to achieve a successful outcome of these important negotiations before 2009.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i welcome the commissioner and thank him for his words about the report. i believe it is the close working relationship that has developed between parliament, its various groups and the commission that has helped to steady the rudder on this one. quite clearly we are entering a very dangerous time: we have two years in which to get this right, to measure the value of equivalence and reach convergence with countries around the world. so the commissioner is absolutely right to point this out not only to the usa but also to other third countries. however, the usa is certainly the big project that we all know about. that is going to be the tough one, and we are quite clearly afraid that the billions of dollars and euros between our two capital markets at the transatlantic level will be put in jeopardy if we do not get this right. i am very positive that we are on the right route and i believe that what parliament has put forward has helped to strengthen the methodology, also scrutinising the approach which will be involved in this particular battle. looking at the bulk of this directive and the amendments from the supervisors and others in this house – and i am very grateful to colleagues who have assisted on this issue – i believe that we have not overburdened the business community. that is and has always been vital. you cannot use the term ‘light touch’ all the time and then overburden business. this is an important cross-border capital market issue and we need greater coherence and communication between the various operators within that market. we also need to ensure that investors are protected and that the right information is communicated to them in a relevant and timely manner. these are issues which, of course, are now left to the member state. i think the commissioner might agree with me that we should be using the most modern methods to communicate to investors. i do not have much time, so i shall not pursue all the issues of this particular directive. however, i should like to turn to one recital in the original directive and bend the commissioner’s ear. that recital concerns the voluntary initiatives to help companies report what they pay governments around the world in the extractive industries. as the commissioner might remember – and i am sure his departments will – this was an initiative which was to help end corrupt practices. it was aimed not only at places as far-flung as africa, but also within our own borders. companies were meant to volunteer information about what they pay governments so that we in turn would know, and investors would know, just what money changed hands between governments and companies. it was aimed at the extractive industries because it was clear that this was an area in which an awful lot of money was going abroad, away from the countries where it should have been used. my final question to the commissioner is to ask what he and his services might do to support that initiative. i think this house would enjoy hearing again what your predecessor gave as a promise some years ago.
rapporteur. – mr president, commissioner, almost 12 months ago we first gave our approval to the european payment order, a new law to assist in simplified debt recovery for businesses and citizens owed money in another eu member state. today, a year later, the committee’s view has not changed. we believe that we need this pragmatic and practical eu law, in particular to ensure that businesses and citizens have an affordable system to recover those debts owed to them. why? because until this law comes into force, recovery of debts from another eu state is a costly legal process. in some cases, money spent on lawyers and administrative costs exceeds the amount owed to the individual. more significantly, studies and experience show that companies which do not get their debts paid are at risk of collapsing, with knock-on effects not just in terms of job losses, but also for other smes in the supply chain. out of between 30 and 40 billion invoices in europe each year, as many as 1 billion default and turn into debt cases. interim justicia carried out a survey on payment practices in 16 european countries some 10 years ago. the average delay then was just 14 days. by the end of 2003, however, this had not declined, but risen to 16 days. according to a world bank study, ‘doing business in 2004: understanding regulation’, the nordic countries have the most efficient and effective legal systems of the countries surveyed. they take the least time to reach a solution while keeping costs low. italy is one of the countries with the longest delays worldwide. the explanation it is said lies in the lax appeal process, which allows proceedings to be disrupted at any point during a trial. spain, by contrast, has one of the most complex legal systems, which generates higher costs and leads to longer court proceedings. my own member state, the uk, has some three systems operating for payments, again creating confusion for businesses or the public. extensive differences in legal regulation of overdue payment recovery therefore lead to uncertainties, especially in eu trade, and the additional costs prevent the eu’s aim of equal opportunities for market access for both local and eu operating companies. it is clear that a lack of enforcement systems for payments undermines the internal market and business confidence and that, as a result, smes have continued to experience cash flow problems caused by late payments. the european payment order will also apply to individual citizens who work or live in another member state and who can also take advantage of this new law. of course, the high and expanding volume of trade within the eu and the increased movement of people raise the likelihood that more and more businesses may become involved in cross-border litigation. there is a risk that citizens may not be inclined to assert their rights because of the obstacles they face, particularly in dealing with the legal system in another member state and with unfamiliar procedures and unknown costs. it is essential, therefore, that the eu provide for a judicial area where private individuals and businesses can have access to justice and redress in the case of an uncontested claim. this procedural law will help facilitate that access. the payment order introduces a practical eu-level instrument for obtaining an enforceable decision and i believe in this way we can demonstrate to citizens that the eu is delivering a practical tool to assist them with redress and remedies. i want to put on record my thanks to members of the committee, in particular the shadows, mr wieland, who is here this evening, and mrs wallis, who cannot be here. they have not only supported my approach but have made useful and constructive proposals for amendments at every stage of the procedure. the committee consulted with key protagonists and we believe we focused on the core issues. both my shadows were concerned to ensure that the forms and the annex, the bones of the proposal, were simple enough for businesses to be able to fill them out with minimum bureaucracy. only time and experience will tell if this has been achieved. that is why, under the new comitology procedures, parliament needs to be consulted and informed of any changes the commission would like to make to the system. i would also like to thank the british presidency, in particular the minister baroness ashton, who was instrumental in helping us to make progress on the clear drafting of this law. so now, commissioner, at second reading we are down to the last few details. mrs wallis is concerned that the commission should seriously address the potential discrimination affecting citizens and businesses where eea members can participate in the single market, but cannot be a party to the epo. i hope the commission will address this issue. the forms should be user-friendly and simple and we would therefore like the commission to take on board our amendment in this area. finally, since we started this process a year ago and since the commission’s original proposal, we now have a new institutional agreement, with effect from july 2006. the committee and parliament insist that the new regulatory scrutiny procedure and rule should be respected in this legislation and on the payment order. commissioner, let me say how much we have appreciated the cooperation of your departments in this area. i hope that, together with the finnish presidency, we can sign off the european payment order and begin the process of putting it into law across all the member states of the eu, so that businesses and citizens can be confident of operating in the internal market in the knowledge that the failure to pay a debt does not end up in endless court proceedings with no outcome. thanks to the european union, there is now a simple and user-friendly system for speedy payment of debts which, i believe, will drive forward the internal market for smes and boost the eu economy.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, we have heard a list of all the things we need, and what the house is saying is that we need action to achieve those things. this resolution offers one of those rare occasions where we have total unity round this chamber: unity across committees, unity across political groups. it is unity on what is a rare disease. it is one of the rare diseases that is not the result of poverty; it is the result of increasing prosperity. that is why it is very much a european disease growing in prevalence. the most common cancer among women is breast cancer. we know the figures: 275 000 a year; 88 000 dying a year. that is why we demand access to better services, better research. but medical science is making hope possible: early diagnosis, new drugs, specialist nurses, new therapies and knowledge leading to prevention. all those things mean that we do not have to accept this terrible toll among women. but it is also an issue for men. one thousand men in the european union die each year from breast cancer. fill this chamber with men – every seat filled, and the galleries and the interpreters’ booths, and the platform – and wipe it out. that is the number of men we are losing each year to breast cancer. men need specialist services too. they also have problems because although it is easier to spot in men, it is left too late and so the tumours are too large. so they need screening. too many men cannot cope. they cannot cope, not just with the disease, but with going home to their families and telling them they have got breast cancer. they cannot cope with going down to the pub to tell their mates they have got breast cancer. some – and ‘some’ is too many – kill themselves rather than face the consequences of their diagnosis. that is our fault. we do not enable them to cope; we must. for men and women, our message is that we have a united resolution and we demand united action from the commission.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, my thanks go to mrs jöns for bringing this issue back before the house. this disease is not only a women’s issue, as mr bowis and mrs záborská have said. hundreds of thousands of men, hundreds of thousands of families, are affected by the disease each year. my mother-in-law died of breast cancer and my wife’s eldest sister was diagnosed with breast cancer ten years ago, but thanks to early and successful treatment she is alive and well today. i am sure you can imagine the shadow this disease casts over me and my family. but, as we have heard, it is a particular ordeal for the 275 000 women who contract the disease each year and, tragically, the 88 000 women who die of the disease each year in the european union, and their families. these are figures which can and must be radically reduced. we need further research into prevention. but it is particularly shocking to me that mortality rates vary by as much as 50% across the member states and that mastectomy rates vary by up to 60%. that too is unacceptable. there is clearly a pressing need for best practice to be spread evenly across the union into every region and that best practice needs to be built around the european guidelines for quality assurance in breast cancer screening and diagnosis. another pressing issue is the fact that an increasing number of younger women are developing breast cancer – 47% under 55 years of age. add to that the fact that up to 20%, a fifth of former breast cancer patients, do not return to work and it becomes clear that something needs to be done if we are to meet the lisbon target for women’s participation in the labour market. i therefore fully commend the resolution’s call – and i am pleased to hear commissioner špidla respond positively to it today – to draw up a charter for the protection of the rights of breast cancer patients and currently sick people in the workplace to facilitate their reintegration into the world of work. their working hours need to be tailored to their treatment pattern and their reabsorption into the workplace needs to be built around their rehabilitation. five women per day are diagnosed with breast cancer in my own region. i hope that, with proper research into prevention, that figure will be reduced. i also hope that our work can come to mean that those diagnoses will not represent a death sentence; rather a diagnosis needs to become a trigger for early, sensitive, humane intervention, successful treatment and re-entry into the world of work and a full and fulfilling life.
on behalf of the alde group . – madam president, i should like to add my thanks to mrs jöns for this splendid initiative. she has done a tremendous amount of work on it. the lifetime risk of developing breast cancer in european women, as we have heard, is one in ten, and it is the biggest killer of women between the ages of 35 to 59, and the second biggest overall. mr bowis was absolutely right: we must not forget that although it mainly affects women, one thousand men die of breast cancer each year. still not enough is being done by member states. with advanced screening techniques, it is possible for breast cancer to be identified at an early stage. the european commission published a new set of guidelines on breast cancer screening and diagnosis in april. they estimated that 32 000 breast cancer deaths across europe could be prevented. but many member states do not have technical screening facilities or trained nurses in place. i urge every member state to sign up to the european guidelines but, more importantly, to implement those guidelines. we need to do even more in terms of education. lifestyle, as well as genetics, can apparently affect the likelihood of getting breast cancer. we also need to make sure that those diagnosed with breast cancer are not discriminated against in the workplace, as we have already heard. they should be allowed to continue to work during treatment, if that is what they wish to do; but, if not, to be able to resume their careers afterwards. that should be covered by the 2000 employment directive on anti-discrimination in the workplace – we have done that in the united kingdom. but many member states do not class breast cancer as a disability, which is why we need a definition of disability. with so many people developing breast cancer, we must get that right. we must also have an exchange of best practice, particularly as mortality rates vary by 50% between member states. it is up to us all to keep this high on the political agenda.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this proposal has been another plank in the attempts to impose eu ideals and censorship on an unsuspecting public. it is less about support to industries in the eu, and more about protecting them from outside competition in the real world. i have to ask: why is this proposal necessary? well, maybe because in implementing such a programme the eu can exploit yet another area where its message can be delivered to folk who will not believe or contemplate that they are being manipulated. i quote: ‘it is to be recalled that (...) the programme media has now clearer references to the importance of european cinema for intercultural dialogue’. but it wholly ignores the bigger intercultural dialogue between the different european cultures and those of the wider world, for instance that of the indian subcontinent. not only that, but each and every aspect of this report duly sets out another attempt to interfere with commercial activity. we are told that the programme will cost eur 671 million. we also know that he who pays the piper calls the tune. but where is the added value? who benefits? it ignores what folk might want to see, given freedom of choice. however, the eu will benefit by distorting the marketplace in the minds of citizens. ah yes, eu citizens, those poor folk who had citizenship forced upon them, from which there is as yet no escape!
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
in writing. i support mr chichester's report. i believe that the galileo satellite system serves two vital purposes. firstly, it will enable the eu, independent of the united states, in association with its partners, to develop and deploy a global satellite system that will give an autonomous capability in this area. secondly, it shows symbolically the eu's commitment to playing an increasingly global role in world affairs. regardless of the technological and material advantages that will accrue, this political dimension is vital in itself.
in writing. i welcome this report. it endorses the eu proposal for a strategic partnership with south africa which is comprehensive and which moves towards real political cooperation with the most significant political power in sub-saharan africa and the strongest economy in sub-saharan africa, accounting for 50% of the region’s gdp. whilst praising the considerable progress made in post-apartheid south africa in consolidating a functioning parliamentary democracy as well as the economic strides made as a middle-income developing country and as a leader of the southern african development community, the report focuses on the need to address the considerable social challenges still facing the country. these challenges include particularly the high incidence of hiv/aids (with 18.8% of the population currently infected) and rates of unemployment of more than 40%. i fully support the report’s call for hiv/aids to be tackled as a priority for economic development, as well as its emphasis on the strategic partnership providing a single framework under which the existing eu cooperation instruments can improve performance in the interests of the south african population and economy.
in writing. though i believe life funding has done good work, the problem has been the excess of demand over supply and the difficulty of supervising what is going on because it involves fairly small payments to a large number of projects and this report does not address these issues. in 2003 the court of auditors looked at the life scheme and found that financial beneficiaries failed to keep sufficiently transparent and detailed accounts. life money was also found to be involved in substantial land purchases where there were insufficient guarantees that this land would continue to be used for nature conservation purposes once the implementation period for the actions was over. the court asked whether the commission had set up an adequate system of management. the answer is that, as the fund is currently organised, the commission cannot do so. it is therefore perfectly acceptable and sensible for the management role to be devolved to the member states. this does not mean that environmental schemes will suffer from the withdrawal of life money, but that money may be better spent and more transparently supervised.
in writing. i voted for the amendments to the common position on life+. i am particularly concerned with the requirement for a 55% allocation of funds for nature and biodiversity. important as these areas are, such a requirement would limit member states’ ability to allocate funds for projects addressing their own environmental priorities such as climate change.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i believe given the cost of ‘disasters’ on member states in terms of human lives, economic losses and injuries, it makes sense to pool resources and thus pursue economies of scale in areas such as logistics and transport.
in writing. this is an important report, much of which deserves to be implemented. urgent action is required to improve recovery rates. however, my british conservative colleagues and i are unable to support the report overall because we do not accept in principle that the long-term solution to many of the problems in this field is the establishment of a european public prosecutor, an idea which is reiterated in this report (paragraphs 43-45). such a public prosecutor would be an unacceptable interference in the constitutional responsibility of member states for their judicial systems. furthermore, as there is rightly widespread opposition to its introduction, emphasising its necessity is a dangerous diversion from tackling the real problems at hand. for this reason we are obliged to abstain on the final vote.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you for introducing us to this first budgetary debate for 2007. at the outset i should like to thank all those who brought us to this stage, particularly those in the secretariat of parliament’s committee on budgets and those associated with it. without them it would have been impossible to get ourselves to this state of preparedness. in setting out the guidelines for the 2007 budget – one that is different from others in the sense that it has been the first budget in the new financial perspective – much of the first part of the year was spent in negotiating the result of the financial perspectives. indeed it is a rare budget when we find that we do not yet have some of the programmes in place, because the multiannual programmes are in the process now of being completed as, let us hope, the financial regulation will be in place for the beginning of next year to be the basis for our operation. in terms of general considerations, there are three that i should like to set out, which have shaped our strategic thinking in the budgets committee in presenting this budget to parliament. firstly, as we noted in the annual policy strategy (aps) discussions in may, which form the basis for our preparation for this budget, the speed of globalisation outside europe is shaping our policies. i believe we have rightly criticised the commission for taking a laid-back and complacent view on this. we need to be able to take account in our budgetary policies of the effects of what is happening elsewhere in the world. secondly, we are acutely aware that the results of the financial perspective discussions have left us with fewer resources than we might otherwise have hoped, and therefore lead to the need for prioritisation in the way in which we shape our policies. thirdly, we must communicate better with our citizens and give them the confidence that we are capable of running the budget effectively. that being said, what has the process now led to in what we voted for? first is the general outlook. in terms of commitments i believe we have been very prudent in allowing significant margins in the various parts of the budget, well under the ceilings provided for in the iia; and for the first time since 2000 we are not requesting the flexibility instrument. on the question of payments, we have taken a horizontal approach that reflects the approach taken by reimer böge, as our rapporteur on the financial perspectives – whose report parliament adopted – in outlining a number of priority areas; and this is what we have reflected in taking payments on first reading to 1.04%, yet again well beneath the ceiling allowed for 2007 of 1.06%. this is also keeping a ratio between commitments and payments below 80% in most cases. in terms of the pilot projects and preparatory actions, we have a range of different possibilities; in terms of internal policies, where we are wanting to underpin innovation, and where we are looking in terms of security at a major initiative on migration management, thanks to our friend and colleague mr deprez from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs; and, last but not least, on external policy, to see what we can do to build up linkages with china and india, because, as reflected from the outset, in the present globalising world we do not have the right kind of networks which link our business and scientists with those of china and india. we are putting these in as preparatory actions to be approved under the 2007 budget. lastly in terms of payments, i have mentioned the common foreign and security policy, the cfsp. there are some in the council who think that we are not being particularly generous in leaving it at a cut of 50%. there were those who wanted 100%, but we reached 50% as a good compromise because there are a range of people, particularly in the committee on foreign affairs but also elsewhere in this parliament, who would like to see the commitment entered into by the council fulfilled for the way in which we handle the common foreign and security policy between parliament and council. equally, in terms of the special representatives, where we are recommending that the whole sum be transferred to the eu delegations, the point we are making on first reading is that we want to have, if not special treatment, at least clarity in the way in which these people are appointed. as the amendment says, we would like to adopt guidelines for the decision to establish, select and appoint eu special representatives and for the regular assessment of their work. turning now to the second aspect, which is value for money, this is an innovative concept where what we want to do is to stop throwing good money after bad. i do not think there is anybody in this house who has opposed this particular kind of concept, which is involved in identifying those lines where we know from the different reports available to us that the policies are being implemented poorly, either quantitatively or qualitatively. thanks to the work of the committee on budgets – though it would have been nice if the rapporteur of the committee on budgetary control could have contributed more to this process – by looking at our own cost benefit analyses, at the court of auditors’ reports, at the budget forecast alert and at the synthesis reports provided by the commission, we have been able to identity a number of lines which we unanimously have voted into reserve at 30% on first reading in the committee on budgets. the intent is to be able to release these sums by the end of the year on second reading, so long as we can have a satisfactory explanation from the commission on 15 november, when we will have a joint committee on budgets-committee on budgetary control meeting to examine these lines and to see whether they are now operating positively. the whole idea behind this is that we can purge the budget of those lines which are operating ineffectively, and move towards what we are looking for, which is a positive statement of assurance. where the council has suggested that this might be against the financial regulation, i think article 43(1)(b) makes it quite clear that where there are sufficient grounds for us to put monies in the reserve, then we are entitled to do so. it would be nice if, by the end of our process – maybe on the margins of our conciliation meeting with the council on 21 november, or in our vote in december – we could come to a common statement by parliament, the council and the commission on how we handle this concept of value for money on a regular basis, so that we can make it a part of our process, rather than something treated in an arbitrary manner. there are a few last comments on other aspects – budget control and value for money. the first of these is shared management: the problems about which we heard from the president of the court of auditors in the budgetary control committee yesterday evening, when, much to my surprise and that of other colleagues, he said he was not particularly interested in shared management because the council pays and it is the commission that takes responsibility for signing off the budget. i do not think it is possible to have a statement of assurance unless the member states sign up to their responsibilities under the budget for the funds that they pay, which amount to 75 or 80% of the budget. therefore, shared management is something we think is important to have implementation of the iaa provision. secondly, as regards work on the agency – which mrs haug has so ably coordinated for us – we are putting sums of money of the increases in reserves so that we can hear views from the agencies as to what they will be doing with their money and their work programmes in order to get value for money once again. last but not least is the question on the administration, where the council actions on first reading to effectively diminish the number of commission posts by some 2000 in the next few years are something we have not been able to sign up to. we believe that we need a screening exercise of the commission by 30 april 2007 so that we can understand what the mid-term demands of the commission are before taking radical action to cut back. in addition to that, we would not only like a state of play from the commission as to which of the outstanding regulations we could have withdrawn, but above all what we would like is to be sure that we have clarity between what we have here in the budget process and the legislative process of the work programme which is decided on by the commission today; so that when we have a final decision on this budget, hopefully in december, and the resolution from parliament on the legislative work programme, then both of these can be bound together and we can have the commission president come to parliament in february 2007 and tell us what the final work programme of the union is. otherwise it is unclear to citizens. therefore, i would conclude by saying that this is a budget which in terms of priorities is what i would call a budget which is consistent and forward-looking; in value-for-money terms, it is a budget which can be said to be coherent and prudent; and lastly, that in taking these two building blocks together, we will be able to look forward to the review which will be coming by 2008/2009 and have a very clear position for the european parliament in order to ensure that where we need increases in particular policies or different actions to be taken on policy matters, we will be well prepared for that debate. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, i should like to make three points. firstly, i should like to thank the rapporteur for increasing payment appropriations for priority programmes linked to the lisbon agenda, like the competitiveness and innovation programme and the seventh framework programme for research. these are key initiatives that not only provide work for europe’s valuable and highly skilled scientists but also prepare the eu to face future challenges as a global leader. we should not overlook the significant and positive impact that they have on our regions and their populations. secondly, i commend this report for the concern it expresses for the galileo programme, which has been under-funded in the 2007 draft general budget. this showcase eu programme is a major technological, economic and political challenge and we really need to be sure about it. i do not understand why we are prepared to cut funding in this area. it would be an embarrassment for the eu if this project were to stall or fail due to lack of financial backing. thirdly, since many areas, such as the ones i have just mentioned, require increased funding, i do not understand why, when the itre committee’s request is for a smaller budget, this does not come from the security and space research programme, where we should reduce payments and not increase them. turning to more general non-itre issues, on the structural funds i support the call in this report for an increase in payments. this is the one area where ordinary citizens see the difference eu policies make to their everyday lives. my own region, the west midlands, is a case in point. eu funds have acted as a catalyst in re-energising the potential and development of local communities. on external affairs, asia is one of the largest and most populous regions in the world. it contains 60% of the world’s population. so i am amazed that the commission has cut funding. last year money for the tsunami disaster was taken from other asian programmes without any increase and this year, because the tsunami funding has decreased, the commission has cut the funding again. has the commission forgotten that the money is desperately needed by the asian programmes which were sacrificed, where the eu is committed to meeting millennium development goals? i ask the commission to justify this. i welcome this report’s call for transparency in the allocation of funding for information and communication. we need full transparency across the board, so eu taxpayers’ money spent on eu policies should be totally traceable and published on the internet. then we can see exactly how much money goes to whom. this applies equally to the members of this house and especially to agriculture. finally, i should like to congratulate both the rapporteurs, mr elles and mr grech, on producing excellent reports. i thank them for their hard work.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president: one minute, two points. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has quite simply voted for the maintenance of the commission’s proposed spending on consumer protection, not the deep cuts proposed by the council. so we are voting for the status quo as proposed by the commission. secondly, i should like to mention parliament’s budget for communicating with our citizens. each year american congressmen are allowed to send four four-sided newspapers to every single one of their voters to tell them of their glorious achievements. i propose an amendment that would allow each of us here to send one free four-sided newspaper to each of our voters every year to tell them what we are doing. i hope colleagues will support the amendment, which would help make up the communication deficit. we have a few voters here in the visitors’ gallery, but there are millions out there who do not know what we are doing and we need to communicate with them.
mr president, in his report mr elles says that it is essential for policymakers to focus on what the real challenges will be for the eu in the years ahead. when david cameron was campaigning for the leadership of mr elles’ party last year, he told the daily telegraph, ‘we must challenge the culture of the eu, leaving it to focus on its real job, making the single market work properly and championing free trade’. however, mr elles’ policy priorities include common foreign and security policy, the european neighbourhood policy, terrorist threats, border controls on immigration, environment and communication. this is the tory hidden agenda and it is very different from the one mr cameron put forward when he needed the votes from the more eurosceptic party members. but of course this is the same mr cameron who was pretending he would leave the ppe-de. one year on, mr elles is free to carry on promoting the ppe-de agenda. his real leader, mr poettering, is no doubt delighted.
i should like to thank the commissioner for that very thorough and clear answer. however, it is a fact that people still complain about over-booking. my other concern is that there are still airline companies which are ignoring this regulation on air passengers’ rights and are telling their customers that it does not apply to them. is the commission going to get tough on some of these operators who seem to think they can operate outside the law and outside eu regulations?
i was glad that the commissioner, in her first answer, reinforced the importance of sustaining competition and the access obligations in the framework of broadband delivery. i wonder if she would like to confirm to the house that she will be resisting the calls from certain operators and even regulators for a regulatory holiday for certain levels of investment in broadband? secondly, bearing in mind that she and i will be at the global forum on internet governance next week, can she confirm that she will be joining us in promoting the virtues of competition on a global scale, in order to raise the level of broadband connection globally and reduce costs?
thank you for that answer, commissioner. i entirely accept that there are wider issues in trade and development than fair trade alone. however, i should still like to hear from the commission that you will give specific support to developing clear criteria for assessing fair trade assurance schemes. i should also like you to reflect on ways to boost transparency in pricing, so that consumers can see if the fair trade premium is passed back by supermarkets, as well as seeing that if they buy their ten-pound or fifteen-euro dress, their bargain may be at the expense of a decent living for textile workers.
commissioner, one of the many obstacles to the development of fair trade is the occasional attempt by other countries to dump products within europe on a below-cost basis, of which shoes was but the latest example. my question is not about how right or wrong the shoes decision is; it is about the process by which that decision is taken. i understand that 12 countries voted against, 9 voted in favour and there were 4 abstentions. could you please comment on the logic of that process, commissioner?
commissioner, are you concerned that the plethora of bilateral trade agreements – and i do not just mean eu bilateral trade agreements – that is growing up at the moment is a threat to getting the wto talks back on track?
commissioner, i fully support what you say about candidate countries meeting the convergence criteria. but do you accept that it is very frustrating for them to be struggling to meet those criteria and, at the same time, to see existing member states of the eurozone systematically breaching their obligations? i know you have raised this issue with the council. but what efforts will you continue to make to ensure that existing eurozone member states meet their legal requirements?
mr president, i congratulate our rapporteur for her work in steering this important report through parliament. next year erasmus celebrates its 20th anniversary, having been brought into being by one of my predecessors, winnie ewing, when she was chair of the culture and education committee, and there is much to thank her for. since 1987, over 1.2 million students have completed exchange courses at universities outside their own countries. in the 2004/2005 academic year, over 144 000 students took advantage of the opportunity provided by the erasmus programme to continue their studies in a country other than their own. the benefit and invaluable cultural and linguistic experience this provides for students is second to none. as a former erasmus exchange student myself, i can vouch for that. erasmus has been one of the successes of the eu in demonstrating its relevance. but while the uptake for students coming to scotland has been encouraging, with 2163 during 2004/2005, the number of scottish students going abroad to study has been far less, standing at 1018. i want to see more scots taking part in this programme and benefiting from the opportunity to study abroad. erasmus is one way in which we can encourage our young people to have an international outlook.
mr president, our sense of citizenship, like our sense of identity, arises from our history, our culture, our language and our experience of life. it comes from the bottom up. this citizenship programme is top-down. it seeks to create a sense of citizenship where none exists. as such, it is doomed to fail and it is wholly improper. i was born a british citizen. i never asked to be a european citizen. i do not want european citizenship and i totally reject and repudiate it. the european constitution, which incorporates the concept of eu citizenship, has been roundly rejected in france and holland, and it would be rejected if it were voted on in the united kingdom. the promotion of this failed concept is therefore highly contentious. we are using taxpayers’ money to promote one side of a hotly disputed debate, and that is wrong, undemocratic and disgraceful. i call on colleagues to reject this report out of hand.
mr president, it is a very important achievement to have a common position adopted by the council on this ‘europe for citizens’ programme and i congratulate the rapporteur, mr takkula, on his work and dedication and, in particular, for improving the scope of the programme. i want to dwell on two aspects of the programme: town twinning and the memorials to the victims of the twin dictatorships of hitler and stalin. i would urge commissioner figeľ to coordinate his work with that of his colleague, commissioner wallström, who is responsible for information and public relations, in order to maximise the impact of this extremely important report and programme. firstly, on the town-twinning movement, i could not disagree more with the previous speaker. in my own country there are town-twinning associations which have existed for 50 years and others which have been newly founded. i wish that the commissioners – because they are the only people who can do it – would give fair, free and open publicity to the dedication and voluntary work of these organisations. to hear in my own county town of hertford, the german, french, british and european anthems sung by local citizens and by school children was infinitely more eloquent than the absurd anti-european propaganda that we are given to digest in much of our popular press. we are in a battle for the hearts and minds of public opinion and we cannot allow the sceptics simply to have the best tunes. we have got the best tune, but we have to proclaim it. secondly, on the memorials, i am delighted that mr takkula has included the victims of stalinist crimes, because half our european union was subject to that dictatorship, and just imagine the disbelief of new citizens of the european union that their suffering should be neglected, whereas those who suffered from hitler’s third reich should be commemorated. therefore, i commend this report and this programme to parliament and the entire european union and let us hope that this time we win the argument.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i welcome the general tone of both the commission’s and mrs muscardini’s reports in wanting to see a world trading system that is as open and fair as possible. however, when we consider the anti-dumping measures of third countries, we in the community need to show moral leadership and avoid hypocrisy. we can agree that trade defence mechanisms are often used as an excuse to protect domestic markets from competition; but we should also admit that the eu is sometimes guilty of using these mechanisms to protect uncompetitive companies from non-eu providers – shoes and textiles being recent examples. fortunately, we continue to be sparing users of these mechanisms. with the potential collapse of the doha development round, we must work with our trading partners to ensure that their legislation and practices comply as far as possible with wto rules. however, to have any moral authority in this area, our own anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations must be transparent and impartial. i am concerned about the call for a community approach to defend exporting smes faced with protectionism abroad. during last year’s ‘bra wars’, it was a so-called community approach that suspended imports from china and caused smes in london’s fashion industry to lose contracts and to provide compensation to clients left waiting for unfulfilled orders. if that is a community approach, then we in london want to see less of it. when it comes to arbitration, i think we all agree that any ad hoc arbitration group should consist of relevant experts. but we must ensure that any experts serving on these groups are experts in the sector being investigated who understand the structure of the industry and costs involved, not simply experts in more general trade issues. overall, i would like to congratulate both the commission and the rapporteur on this report.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the european union has been referred to as the greatest example of conflict resolution in history. we must be concerned with the remaining conflicts at home, just as we are concerned with conflicts beyond our union. it is not for us in the european parliament to intervene directly between the spanish government, political parties and the long-running conflict in the basque country, but nor can we turn a blind eye. we should encourage what may be the best prospect for peace in a generation. i extend my solidarity and sympathy to all those families who have been bereaved of loved ones over the years as a result of the violence. but surely the most appropriate response that we, as democratic politicians, can bring to those countless victims is to ensure that there will be no more victims. it is for that reason that liberals and democrats lend their backing to the resolution before the house today. it is neither a time nor a subject for political point-scoring. it is my firm belief that all democratic forces who wish to see a peaceful end to violence and terror in the basque country and elsewhere in spain where atrocities have been committed should back the endeavours of whichever spanish government is prepared to work to that end. earlier this year, this house welcomed the announcement of an eta ceasefire. it is right that we now build on that and engage a process that entrenches it, without prejudging or commenting on the outcome of any political dialogue or settlement. as with the northern ireland peace process, which is not identical but offers some important lessons for conflict resolution, it is occasionally necessary for politicians to take a risk for peace. i recall that our former colleague john hume and his unionist counterpart david trimble were awarded the nobel peace prize in 1998, following the good friday agreement in northern ireland. they took a risk for peace. this is not to hand a victory to the terrorists, as some would suggest, but rather to hand them a defeat. for there can be no dialogue among democrats if one of the parties still maintains the intent to kill. we should not imagine that building the house of peace will be easy. there will be setbacks, such as the discovery of a cache of weapons in south-west france. but it is our duty to build the house of peace with the bricks of effort and the mortar of persistence. that is why my group appeals to all sides of this house today to set aside party politics and unite for the prospects of peace, as much as we stand together in revulsion at acts of terrorism. (applause from the left)
mr president, coming from northern ireland, which has experienced what at times was euphemistically called a peace process, i see uncanny parallels and lessons to be learned. eta-batasuna and ira-sinn féin are both revolutionary marxist-based organisations intent on foisting their will and ideology on a civilian population through vicious violence as and when required. it is not surprising that deep terrorist links have existed between them. both, moreover, are expert in hijacking the language of peace, while glorying in past and even continuing exploits of terror as they adeptly dodge from one phase of struggle to another. learn from our mistakes. in 1994 the ira announced a ceasefire, which proved merely tactical as 18 months later they launched the infamous canary wharf bombing attack and dipped in and out of terror as it suited. in 1998 they promised to decommission within two years, and yet it was not until 2005 that they made any notable delivery. they were foolishly and prematurely admitted to government in northern ireland, only to launch their ‘stormontgate’ spy ring within that government. in late 2004 they purported to engage in genuine political negotiations while, at the same time, planning the biggest heist in uk history – the northern bank robbery – and weeks later ira men murdered robert mccartney. now they want back into government, but think they should keep their army council. therefore, do not be taken in by mere proclamations of commitments to peace by those whose stock in trade is duplicity and mayhem! test them long and test them hard, or you too will have your goodwill exploited.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last friday, 20 october, i had the pleasure of hosting in lahore both an informal meeting of eu heads of state and a subsequent dinner with russian president vladimir putin. the meeting with the directors and the dinner that followed were a success. these informal meetings of eu heads of state or government are an excellent way of building political consensus to take the union forward on its key challenges. at the summit we focused particularly on external energy relations. the report also highlighted illegal immigration and the situation in sudan/darfur. a separate session focused on promoting innovation policy to ensure competitiveness and economic growth. the development of an innovation policy is a key issue for the eu's competitiveness, and our conditions for maintaining good jobs in the future. through frank and thorough discussion at the work lunch, we joined our ranks for dinner, despite the doubts expressed in advance by some. the atmosphere at lunch was excellent and the solidarity between the member states was palpable. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. the dinner conversation with russian president vladimir putin was very candid and direct. in addition to energy issues, we also discussed topical international issues and the situation of freedom of expression in russia. the energy discussion at the c-suite was wide-ranging and multi-faceted. the atmosphere was good, and the basic message was uniform despite the differences in tone. the main topics discussed were the principles and implementation of the eu-russia energy relations, closer relations with strategically important third countries, combating climate change through energy policy and improving the exchange of information through the network of energy bill exchangers. on energy relations between the eu and russia, we agreed on the need for an even closer partnership. this will be based on the principles of the energy charter and the g8 declaration, in particular transparency, market conditions and reciprocity. in practice, the principles should already be applied and incorporated in concrete form in the future eu-russia agreement. in the gulf, we drew up a common line on eu-russia energy relations. the gulf also agreed that closer relations with other producing and transit countries in the union's neighbourhood should be pursued and accelerated before the turn of the year. the aim is to apply the principles of the internal market as widely as possible in the regions surrounding the union. many speakers referred to climate change as the most important international challenge. the eu must show leadership, particularly in promoting sustainable energy. european companies have a lot to offer in terms of energy efficiency innovations and technologies. we agreed that energy and climate issues should continue to be a central theme in eu summits with third countries, as has been the case during the finnish presidency. securing energy supplies requires major investments in transmission networks and other infrastructure. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. it is important that the union has a broad base of information to support its external energy policy decision-making and to respond to external emergency situations. at the gulf we agreed that we would try to make rapid progress in establishing a network of energy bill exchangers during the course of this year. the details will be agreed in council. improving the collection and analysis of data will increase cooperation between member states and the institutions and improve solidarity on energy issues. the discussions at the g20 meeting on external energy relations will also provide a basis for the next spring european council, which is expected to adopt a priority action programme on energy policy. in the working session of the cme meeting, we discussed the promotion of innovation policy. the discussions focused on intellectual property rights, in particular patents, cooperation between business and public authorities, the european institute of technology and standards. we agreed that the union needs clear guidelines on intellectual property rights. the competitiveness council will communicate to the commission more detailed wishes regarding the ipr strategy. in the gulf we stressed that the commission's proposal should take particular account of the quality of the intellectual property system. the commission will present a proposal before the spring european council. the gulf conference strongly emphasised the need to make the european patent system more cost-effective and predictable. the development of judicial systems is also needed. we should try to move quickly. the commission will present a communication at the end of the year containing concrete proposals for the development of the european patent system. the council shall examine the various options after receiving a proposal from the commission. the council has had a difficult time improving the efficiency of the patent system, but the development of a european system is essential to our ability to innovate. i personally think it is clear that everyone must see the common interest and be prepared to compromise narrow national bases and accept, among other things, the simplification of the language system. we also agreed that we must promote cooperation between business and public authorities. european technology platforms and joint technology initiatives are good tools for developing key technologies. in order to move forward, it is essential that the eu's seventh framework programme be adopted without delay. the joint technology initiatives are to receive eu funding from this programme. i am very pleased that the lahti meeting confirmed the progress of one of the most mature technology platforms, artemis, and the commission's intention to implement it as a joint technology initiative. the companies in the sector are investing considerable sums in this joint initiative. the finnish government has also set a good example in this respect, pledging a total of eur 70 million in national support for the initiative over seven years. all in all, artemis is one of the largest european technology projects in a very important and promising area of future technology. the commission presented a legislative proposal for a european institute of technology last week. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i highly value this initiative and believe that it can bring real added value to the development of research cooperation between universities and businesses. finally, i would like to mention standardization, which we also ignored at our meeting. as i have already stressed, standardisation plays a major role in the lives of the citizens of the union. for example, the creation of the pan-european gsm system for mobile phones enabled europe to become a world leader in this field. if europe cannot agree on good standards, they will be set elsewhere. we all know that innovation creates success and growth, but the challenge has been to take concrete steps. with the guidance of the gulf, we are now moving forward to create a competitive environment. the debate on immigration highlighted in particular the commitment of member states to cooperate and show solidarity in addressing immigration issues. the issue is of concern to the union as a whole. while we need rapid short-term action to deal with the acute crisis, our discussions focused on the need for a coherent and comprehensive immigration policy. this covers both illegal and legal immigration. further measures are also needed to integrate immigrants. the need for close cooperation with african countries, as well as other countries of origin and transit, was particularly highlighted. the best way to deal with migratory pressures is to support development in african countries and elsewhere. the debate gave full support to the work of the european border agency and noted the need to make its work more efficient by increasing its resources. our meeting also noted the need to develop our decision-making system so that the union can respond more effectively and in a timely manner to acute issues. mr president, i thank you for your powerful and thorough speech in the gulf. you have well expressed the view of the european parliament that the decision-making process in the field of justice and home affairs must be strengthened. the presidency fully shares this view. (applause) i would like to thank the immigration is still being discussed in the work of the ministers of justice and home affairs and the ministers of foreign affairs. we shall return to this subject at the december european council. in the gulf we also discussed the serious situation in sudan/darfur. we expressed our grave concern about the humanitarian and human rights situation in darfur. as president of the european council, i convey this grave message from the gulf to the president of sudan. pressure must continue to be exerted on the sudanese government to halt hostilities, allow a un peacekeeping mission and open negotiations with the rebels. the informal discussion with russian president vladimir putin was very useful for the development of our strategic partnership. the strategic partnership is characterised by a willingness to cooperate and to discuss all issues. partnership is not a state of being, but a process in continuous motion. we believe that a genuine and lasting partnership must be based on shared values. i would also like to thank you, mr president, for your speech at the dinner and for your support for this important point. values are the foundation of everything. we discussed with the russian president how the objectives of energy cooperation could be furthered by a new agreement. these discussions will also build on the eu-russia summit in november. the helsinki summit is expected to agree on the opening of negotiations on a new and comprehensive agreement on eu-russia relations. on international issues, we agreed with president putin to pursue further eu-russia cooperation. the need for closer cooperation has been underlined by recent developments in iran, north korea and the middle east, among others. i was at dinner, and i brought up the shocking murder of journalist anna politkovskaya. i told president putin about the concern of citizens in the member states about whether there has been a turn for the worse in russia in terms of freedom of speech and expression. i said as a message from the union that this murder, which has shocked us all, must be investigated and the perpetrators brought to justice. i also raised our concerns about the situation in chechnya. relations between russia and georgia were also discussed. i expressed to president putin the union's concern at the escalation of tensions and stated that the union was ready to act to contribute to a solution to the crisis. we are building a strategic partnership with russia on a concrete basis, within the framework of common areas, on an unprecedentedly broad front. the finnish presidency will focus on energy, the environment, transport, justice and home affairs and human rights. the european union must be able to speak with one voice with its partners. we are weak and divided, and we are unable to defend our interests and to promote the values on which the union is founded. in the gulf, we succeeded in showing president putin that the union is united and determined. as president of the european council, i am proud of this achievement and consider that we have taken a new step in eu-russia relations. this does not mean that russia agrees with us on everything. we did have a long discussion, in which president putin responded in detail to our points of view and also identified shortcomings in the eu's work. this is what we're used to with russia, it's a normal dialogue. the key question now, after the gulf war, is how we will move from words to deeds and take the work forward on the issues we have discussed. we rely on the normal, established channels of preparation. the bulk of the work is done in the council on the basis of initiatives from the commission. we will make use of the political guidance we have received on a number of subjects during the remaining weeks of our presidency. the european parliament also has a key role to play in the implementation of the agreements reached in lahti. i would like to thank you warmly for the opportunity to present the outcome of the informal meeting of heads of state or government in lahti. i'm happy to answer any questions that my platform has raised in you. (applause) i would like to thank the
president of the commission. mr president, prime minister vanhanen has given you a comprehensive overview of the results of the informal european council in lahti last friday. i should like to concentrate on a few points. the lahti summit should be seen as part of a process. as you know, we have been saying that we should drive forward integration through practical, concrete actions and we have been doing so, hand in hand with parliament and the council. we have set out an ambitious agenda, for example on security, on energy, on research, and now we must put that agenda into action. that is precisely what we did at lahti. firstly, on innovation, everyone agrees that innovation is important and that europe is lagging behind. there is a consensus on the need for more support and incentives for innovation and fewer barriers for innovators. that has been endorsed in the european council and in resolutions from this parliament. what we needed were some clear, practical steps to show that europe was prepared to take a lead and that is what we got at lahti. on joint technology initiatives, for example, key projects such as the artemis programme on embedded computers were being held back by a lack of national funds. now we have some clear commitments for direct support. on procedures to set european standards for products, we have an agreement that these should be speeded up. i also believe that momentum is building up on intellectual property, including patents, and the commission will push that further before the end of the year. importantly, the commission received the green light on the european institute for technology (eit). i am grateful for the support i received from all the members who spoke in favour of the eit in the part-session two weeks ago. there is a growing consensus that the eit will offer european leadership on innovation. we are receiving enthusiastic support from all over the business and scientific community in europe. the attention given by parliament to that important initiative has been of real help in developing the details of the proposal. of course there will now be negotiations on details, including the budget. i look forward to working with you and the council in order to move swiftly towards adoption of the regulation. i believe that the eit can be a flagship of excellence in innovation for europe. we should ask the eit to make its first priority the great challenges of climate change and everything related to environmentally-friendly sources of energy. that is an important task for us as a society. we should ask the scientific community of europe to help us solve these problems, so that we can maintain the lead in what is perhaps the most important challenge of the 21st century. the second main issue in the debate was energy. the commission, working closely with the presidency, had identified three practical steps forward, and we received support for them all. first, the european council agreed that we should step up our energy relations with our neighbours, especially producers like russia, norway or algeria, and key transit countries like turkey and ukraine. secondly, the european council agreed to create a network of energy correspondents, which will also make us better prepared for unexpected shocks to our energy supply. thirdly, the european council agreed on a specific common approach to russia. we made clear to president putin our wish to have a close energy relationship with such a key partner, but that relationship must be based on the principles that russia has already signed up to at the g8 hosted by russia this year, as well as the energy charter: transparency, the rule of law, reciprocity and non-discrimination, along with market opening and market access. those principles apply to energy, but not just energy. they are necessary elements in increasing the mutual confidence and investment essential to a long-term relationship. that message was all the more powerful in that we were united. in lahti there was a clear sense of solidarity, an understanding that the european union will act as one and that europeans should receive the same standards of reliability from our russian partners, whichever member state is concerned. prime minister vanhanen spoke on behalf of the whole european council, presenting the general issues regarding our broad relations with russia, and i was proud to have been asked to speak on energy matters. it was important for that meeting and for the success of the lahti summit that the statements by the presidency and by the european commission were clearly supported by all members of the european council. the idea of solidarity is more important than ever. solidarity and coherence are more than ever the key words of our european union. going forward on energy, within the framework of our new global agreement with russia, will help ensure that this common approach is maintained. in short, the message is getting through: energy is a european issue and needs european solutions. there is growing recognition in the council of what you in parliament have long known, i.e. that the european union has a central role to play in creating energy security and, through energy policy, in tackling climate change. that bodes well for the energy package that the commission will present in january. the european union must not reduce its relationship with russia to energy. at the dinner with president putin, the european union raised other issues: human rights, trade, visas, culture and common international concerns. we covered sensitive issues like georgia. prime minister vanhanen repeated the european union’s concern at the murder of anna politkovskaya, expressed so eloquently in our previous debate in the european parliament. as we negotiate a new global agreement with russia, this broad spread of issues must be maintained. that is the essence of a comprehensive agreement. thirdly, at lahti there was a short but important discussion on immigration. again, there was a clear understanding that this was a collective problem, demanding a collective response. i was able to explain that in the coming weeks the commission will be making proposals on how to improve maritime control of the union’s southern borders. we will also be updating the global approach on migration in the run-up to the december european council and working to tackle the problem at source in the euro-african conference on migration and development next month. however, there is still much more that we could do in this area if the political will and determination is there to give us the tools and resources needed. in particular, we believe that our decision-making system should be adapted. we can already do that under the existing treaties. we cannot go on waiting so long for decisions that are so often blocked because of the rule of unanimity. let us be frank: it is completely absurd that in a common space of freedom of movement we still sometimes think in terms of 25 migration policies. we need a european policy on migration. (applause) finally, darfur was also discussed. i remain determined that we will do all we can to prevent another humanitarian tragedy. therefore, lahti was another signpost on our collective road towards equipping europeans for globalisation. we will not be diverted from this path. the expectations of our citizens for a europe of practical results are increasing. we must continue to respond. i am grateful to mr vanhanen for his excellent chairmanship and to the finnish presidency for our close cooperation. may it continue to the end of the presidency and beyond. that is the way to achieve practical results for our europe. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, there is no resolution to discuss today. but then again there were no conclusions to the summit. my point is not that such occasions are not worthwhile: on the contrary, such is the need for greater action at european level that the union could and should have four formal summits every year, as foreseen in the treaty of nice. what was on the menu at lahti? i refer not, prime minister, to the artichoke soup or the grilled goose that you served at supper, proving that you can supplant prosciutto di parma, but to the eit and the european patents, to energy security, to immigration, to relations with russia – strategic themes which need serious reflection, but also strategic decisions which highlight the need for coherent policymaking. what is the use of a european technology university producing innovative ideas, if as a union we are not able to agree a quick and easy patent registration system? what is the hope for a collective climate change strategy if we are not prepared together radically to change our patterns of energy consumption and generation? and what are the prospects for a common immigration policy if we fail to devise development and trade policies to bring relief from grinding poverty and misery? green papers and action plans galore point the way forward but, like proverbial horses, member states can be brought to water but not made to drink. that is why europe is failing and that is why we need more, not less, europe. my group salutes president borrell and prime minister vanhanen and the other prime ministers who raised the issue of anna politkovskaya’s murder. if the invitation to president putin and the publicity he received leaves many of us feeling distinctly ill at ease, the finnish presidency and the finnish president are not to blame. the mistake was made when president putin’s country was invited to join the council of europe and the g-8, before anchoring the rule of law into its culture. mr putin, ‘mafia’ is not a russian expression, but organizovanniye zhuliki is too often our impression of your country. the european union should sign no partnership and cooperation agreement with russia until freedom, transparency and the rule of law are established, along with the legal certainty for investors that flows from them. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, it is rather difficult for me to know where to begin on this. energy is the lifeblood of any nation state and, of course, i am sent here to represent a nation state. i think it is very difficult for the people of the united kingdom to accept that their energy policy should be decided basically by foreigners. it is within living memory that we have had to fight the battle of the atlantic and we have had to live on a knife-edge for freedom because continental countries seem to find it impossible to live together. the thought, the idea or the concept that united kingdom energy could possibly be controlled by some sort of arrangement with a gangster like putin is absolutely ludicrous! it is absolute madness to expect anything from a piece of paper signed by putin, any more than we would from one signed by adolf hitler. the man is a gangster. if you are expecting the people of the united kingdom to make any sort of arrangement for their lifeblood, the very lifeblood of the nation state, and to base it on people who have no fundamental interest in the wellbeing of the united kingdom, i can tell you that it will not happen. we also have to start speaking the truth. there seems to be some sort of abstract concept here of renewable energy. it is a scientific fact that most of our renewable energy technology does not work. wind farms are absurd. any scientist independently retained will tell you that it is complete and total nonsense to expect the united kingdom to produce the sort of energy levels that the european union seems to require – which is 20% from a renewable source – by means of wind farms. we have to start telling people the truth. we do not yet have the technology for renewable energy. let us be honest about it, but then honesty, of course, is something that we avoid in this chamber!
mr president, listening to mr bloom from the united kingdom independence party earlier, i was somewhat surprised, as i thought dinosaurs had died out millions of years ago. i should like to focus my thoughts on the central issue at the lahti summit: the issue of energy security in europe and our continuing relationship with russia. the recent dispute between ukraine and russia on gas supplies gave us all cause for concern. let us be in no doubt that the relationship between the eu and russia is of vital significance and ways must be found to strengthen it. we will need russia’s energy resources in the decades ahead and russia, by the same token, will need access to eu markets if it is to develop its economic potential. the stakes on both sides are too high for diplomatic grandstanding. i was pleased to note that president putin has said he wants to build a relationship based on common values. those values must include an unshakeable commitment by russia to pluralism and democratic process. if that great nation is to be embraced as a strategic partner in the years ahead, then we in europe need to be assured that it will pursue the same kind of values and standards on democracy and human rights as we do. at this time perhaps we should take mr putin at his word and encourage him to ensure that democracy flourishes in russia. however, there are some who believe the democratic process in russia has actually stalled recently. i hope that more movement will take place in the right direction. i congratulate president barroso on saying that the relationship with russia requires transparency, the rule of law and reciprocity. i hope mr putin was listening. i was a little disappointed on human rights issues. i was disappointed that my own british prime minister, who had claimed that he was to raise those matters with mr putin, seems to have failed to do so. he must now find a suitable moment to do that. there is nothing to fear from frank debate on those issues. it is very necessary for a productive relationship in the future between europe and russia.
i knew that ukip members are divorced from reality, but even then i am astonished at godfrey bloom’s speech, in which he seemed to imply that britain was self-sufficient on energy and did not need to work with, or even talk to, other countries. he says that britain’s ‘lifeblood’ should not be in the hands of ‘foreigners’, but how does he want to avoid us importing energy? certainly not by renewables, which he dismisses out of hand as ‘nonsense’ claiming that wind farms are ‘absurd’ and that ‘no reputable scientist’ would claim that renewable energy can play a significant part in britain’s energy mix. so, no imports, no renewables, north sea oil and gas running out, nuclear, if kept, catering merely for a small proportion of electricity, and the possibilities for expanding coal being somewhat limited, the ukip vision of britain’s future, untarnished by ‘foreigners’, is a dark one!
rapporteur. – mr president, the committee and the political groups requested that we vote on compromise amendment 4 first, as it is the amendment that was agreed with the council and the commission in the trialogue. it respects our rules in parliament on the new comitology procedure. that would mean, therefore, that amendment 2 will fall, when you take compromise amendment 4 first. in view of the statement given by commissioner frattini during the debate on monday and his commitment to look at the effects of this regulation and the civil justice laws for parties domiciled in third countries, in particular the states of the european economic area, the groups have agreed not to insist on amendment 1. therefore we will be voting as groups against that amendment. i hope that avoids any confusion during the vote.
in writing. since the announcement of the eta ceasefire in march of this year, sinn féin has argued that a unique opportunity exists for resolving the conflict in the basque country. all political forces that believe this to be an important political objective, including the european union, should do all in their power to ensure that this opportunity is grasped. it is unfortunate that both resolutions presented to parliament today do not address the central issues nor where the peace process is today. the epp-ed resolution was opposed to the peace process. the joint resolution, while better than that of the epp-ed, was clearly a missed opportunity. on that basis we voted against the epp-ed resolution and abstained on the joint resolution. there is an urgent need for all-party talks, a need to respect all political mandates, including that of batasuna, and a need to end the ongoing political show trials against basque left nationalist political activists. sinn féin remains committed to supporting the basque peace process, will continue to meet all political parties in the region and will offer whatever assistance those parties deem appropriate.
in writing. ukip have abstained on resolution b6-0526/2006 on the principle that this is clearly a nation state matter and thus wholly inappropriate for the eu to interfere in or pass judgement upon. the territorial integrity of a member state and their approach to tackling terrorism should be left to the discretion of the state, appropriately representing and accountable to their citizens who are directly affected. ukip abhors and opposes terrorism in all forms.
in writing. i welcome this resolution on the peace process in spain and very much regret that the right in the parliament was not part of the coalition supporting the peace process. it is sad that they have turned their backs on the very wise words of their own former prime minister josé maría aznar, who in 1998 said "for peace, and its right, we must open our hearts to hope and forgiveness. in our fight for peace, we will do our best with the help and hope of everybody." what a pity the epp could not capture that spirit in today's debate.
in writing. i welcome the youth in action programme, which aims at promoting experiences of european citizenship by young people. this should contribute to solidarity and mutual understanding among young people throughout the european union. for the individual the programme should help promote a sense of initiative, creativity and entrepreneurial spirit. finally, it should contribute to fostering youth organisations and activities in all member states.
in writing. i want to put on record my support for this report.
in writing. i voted for this report and welcome the intention to replace the existing socrates, leonardo da vinci, e-learning and other related programmes (which expire at the end of 2006) with a new integrated lifelong learning programme for 2007 to 2013. i support the creation of four strands - comenius for general education activities in schools, erasmus for higher education, leonardo da vinci for vocational education and training and grundvig for adult education. i believe this programme addresses important needs concerning the modernisation and adaptation of education and training systems in the light of the lisbon goals.
in writing. i voted for this report, which seeks to address a major challenge facing the eu: how to connect the eu with its citizens. the 'europe for citizens' programme ensures the continuity of the civic participation programme established for the period 2004 to 2006. the programme provides the union with an instrument to promote active european citizenship. it responds to the need to improve citizens' participation in the construction of europe and encourages cooperation between citizens and their organisations from different countries in order to meet, act together and develop their own ideas in a european environment which goes beyond the national vision. i welcome this.
in writing. i want to put on record my support for this initiative.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to restrict the marketing and use of perfluorooctane sulfonates (pfos), substances widely used in materials such as textiles, carpets, paper and general coating. studies conducted by the oecd, the uk authorities and the scientific committee on health and environment risks have found evidence that pfos are persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic. it seems right that the eu should act to get rid of another substance of high concern.
in writing. although the uk is not part of the schengen information system (sis), i welcome this package of three reports for two reasons. firstly it is the very existence of sis that has allowed internal borders in the schengen area to be removed and this new system sis ii will allow new member states to be linked up to the system and subsequently allow them to dismantle their internal borders and thus allow their citizens to gain the advantages of full free movement. secondly, i welcome this from a uk point of view because, while not taking part in the regulation, i hope the uk will eventually have access to its information for purposes of security.
in writing. the assassination of anna politkovskaya bring shame to russia and i hope that at every level the russian authorities will spare no effort to bring those responsible to justice.
in writing. the murder of anna politkovskaya should be condemned, as should all killings of journalists, human rights campaigners and others who seek to expose the truth. "freedom of expression" is still met with death in too many places in our world. russia is still a country where freedom of expression is a myth. the russian authorities must bring the perpetrators of this crime to justice. greater pressure must be placed on the russian authorities to guarantee the freedom of the media and human rights organisations on russian soil.
in writing. members of the ukip-delegation regard eu initiatives of any kind as an undemocratic abuse of power and will not vote for them under any circumstances, even when they seem well-intentioned. in this case, the eu is attempting to intrude its influence into the sphere of health service provision, which, like all spheres subject to eu intrusion, should remain under the control, which only nation-states can provide, of democratically-elected governments.
in writing. every year 275,000 women in the eu are diagnosed with breast cancer and the wide discrepancy in care and treatment standards they receive is simply unacceptable. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution calling for europe-wide standards for early detection and treatment of the disease. breast cancer patients often suffer discrimination in the workplace and i hope that, following parliament's overwhelming vote, the commission will now draft a charter for the protection of breast cancer patients at the workplace. i believe if this report was fully implemented we could improve the quality of life for surviving breast cancer patients and significantly reduce the estimated 88 000 deaths a year in the eu from breast cancer perhaps by as much as 35% thus saving 30 000 women a year.
in writing. breast cancer is the leading cause of death in women aged between 35 and 59. the earlier the diagnosis, the greater the chance of survival. most women with breast cancer do not want 'tea and sympathy' but concerted action to improve treatment and tackle the causes. one simple action which could be taken is to minimise the wait from tests to diagnosis. from talking to women with breast cancer, it is the waiting which is the most worrying. we must do all that we can to help and improve the treatment of women at that most concerning time. member states must do more to share best practice. the work of europa donna is essential in helping all european women and i want to place on the record my support for this pan-european organisation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which analyses the use of trade defence measures against the eu by third countries and makes sensible recommendations on how the community should react, especially in cases where those measures are a disguised form of protectionism aimed at unlawfully restricting access by eu products to foreign markets.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the ivory coast is an unstable country that has been made more unstable by environmental crime which has flowed from our continent down to africa; with a dutch ship and dutch port authorities, a greek-owned ship flying the panamanian flag, then ivorian companies and trucks dumping petrochemicals, killing – according to the united nations – 12 people, and resulting in 104 000 people – again according to the united nations – having medical care needs. that ship unloaded 500 tonnes of chemical waste into trucks which dumped it in 15 separate sites around abidjan, a city of 5 million people. the united nations environment programme has said that this is clearly a crime, although they say they do not yet know who was responsible, or the actual nature of that crime. what we do know is that the basel convention should have stopped this crime and has failed to do so, and we need to know why. the ivory coast is a long way away; most countries in africa do not have strong laws to protect human and environmental health from the effects of hazardous waste, but that is no reason for us here in strasbourg to walk away from this case and its lessons. we want safe disposal, not toxic parcel-passing. we want – and i say this directly to you, commissioner – those countries that have not yet ratified that convention, to ratify it; they include greece, ireland, italy, malta and slovenia. i hope you will pursue them and i hope the council will pursue them, too. crime and responsibility and judgment are matters for the courts, but investigation and the plugging of legal loopholes are our responsibility; so is helping acp countries to meet high standards in hazardous waste disposal; so is helping the victims of these appalling events – we think particularly of the children in the ivory coast who have been made to suffer because of them; so is ensuring that the commission and the dutch authorities and the eea and the government of the ivory coast all do their best to identify and pursue the perpetrators of this crime. if the law is defective, then it must be amended. if the law is adequate, then it must be enforced. we know, though, that the law is flouted in too many cases. we know that it is too easy to avoid the cost of responsible safe disposal by dumping, by going outside oecd countries and by using national and international cowboys, and that is what we must ensure is brought to an end.
president of the council. mr president, environmental issues are extremely important and central, and it is therefore good that they have been discussed here in parliament today. the council takes the illegal shipments of waste and the threat they pose to the environment and human health very seriously. the prevention of illegal transfers, as this debate has well shown, is a very demanding task. it requires a wide range of actions and effective cooperation at many levels, without limiting the powers of public authorities. we must also honestly admit that the monitoring of waste shipments within and from the european union also needs to be improved, as evidenced by the studies carried out. it is also important to remember that, as unfortunate as these isolated cases are, which receive a great deal of public attention, such as the recent case of probo koala in côte d'ivoire, we must also remember to pay attention to the everyday events and situations that cause damage to health and the environment that we still have at our disposal, such as the scrapping of ships in the poor conditions of developing countries. the work on these important issues will therefore continue at the 8th conference of the parties to the basel convention in nairobi at the end of november. it is also necessary to see and acknowledge and recognise that there are considerable differences in the national criminal law of the member states concerning the environment. in other member states, the penal provisions are very modern, including for environmental offences, while in some member states there may well be a need to update these provisions to reflect modern risks and how to respond to them. in all member states, in fact, - one might say - there is still a lot of work to be done in implementing these penal provisions, and in particular in increasing the risk of being caught. the council takes environmental crime and its fight very seriously. as regards the draft proposal, it is of course difficult for the council to take a position on a proposal which has not yet been tabled, but it must first look at the proposal and then take a position.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank the chairman of the committee on the environment, public heath and food safety, mr florenz, and all the other speakers for their very positive contributions to today’s debate. i would like to add to the list of nationalities that mr bowis referred to. this was a greek-owned ship, under the flag of panama, but it was time-chartered to a dutch company, which operated it from switzerland, with a russian crew, financed by british and international banks and with a variety of nationalities on the board of the company and as shareholders. happily, it was blocked by greenpeace in estonia and the estonian authorities thoroughly investigated the case. i should like to assure the rapporteur that first proposal, which contains a minimum level of penalties, will be merged with the framework decision of the council and basically it will be along the lines of what you proposed, with certain amendments at first reading. with regard to the question of whether a ship carrying hazardous waste is allowed to leave a european union port, if the waste is hazardous it is not allowed to go to a destination outside the oecd. that also applies to slops – the ship’s own waste water – that contain hazardous substances. i will continue to follow closely all developments in the criminal investigations and proceedings that are currently being conducted in the netherlands and estonia regarding the toxic waste dumping in côte d’ivoire. the commission is also in the process of collecting any information available in other member states concerning the vessel proba koala and its journey. i hope that we will soon be able to draw conclusions from that and find the best way forward in preventing such incidents in the future. we must keep in mind that the tragic incident in côte d’ivoire is just the tip of the iceberg. we know that is so from inspections carried out in member states by their network of implementation and enforcement agencies, impel. in 2005, 51% of the waste shipments checked were found to be illegal. most of the cases do not make big headlines but they can, nevertheless, pose a serious risk to the environment and human health. we must make it very clear that our society does not tolerate environmental crime and that we are determined to take all possible steps to fight it. but legislation that we have adopted to better protect our environment and the health of our citizens will not achieve its objectives if we do not take the necessary measures to ensure that it is properly enforced. i can assure you that the commission is determined that environmental legislation should be properly applied throughout the community. we are already taking a number of specific initiatives in order to ensure that the european union waste shipment regulation is correctly applied and illegal waste shipments are prevented and reduced. this includes the preparation of guidelines to be adopted in connection with the application of the new waste shipment regulation next year and the organisation of awareness-raising events in member states. the commission meets representatives of national authorities responsible for waste shipments on a regular basis. this takes place within a well-established framework and includes multilateral meetings in brussels, as well as bilateral contacts, but these initiatives need to be supplemented by measures to establish effective sanctions. one of the many measures taken by the commission for this purpose was to propose a directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law. as i have already said, it is regrettable that the commission’s proposal was not taken up by the council, due to a difference of views on the correct legal basis. now, however, the court of justice has confirmed that the commission’s views were correct. the commission is preparing a new proposal for a directive which will give effect to the court’s judgment and should be adopted soon. it has taken some time to produce the amended proposal, because the commission has very carefully analysed the court’s judgment and made a comparison of the original commission proposal as amended after parliament’s first reading and the council’s framework decision. in addition, an impact assessment is being carried out to analyse the various options for action. the commission thinks it is necessary to amend its proposal of 2001 after the court’s ruling, to ensure that all criminal law measures necessary to ensure the effective implementation of the community’s policy for the protection of the environment are included in the proposal. the court has made it clear that the parallel adoption of a directive and a framework decision, as was done in the past, is no longer possible. also, after five years, the commission’s proposal needs to be adapted to legislative developments. i would like to clarify that the commission does not want to harmonise national criminal laws fully. the aim is that only those steps which are necessary for the effective implementation of environmental policy should be taken at community level. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise again the importance of good cooperation between the commission and parliament in the forthcoming codecision procedure for the adoption of the directive on the protection of the environment through criminal law. we have the same goals, namely to protect the environment by establishing minimum standards for the sanctioning of environmental offences and to try to eliminate the possibility of safe havens for environmental offenders in the european union. acting together, we can take a big step towards achieving these objectives. finally, as regards the ratification of the basel convention, i have sent letters to more than 50 countries around the world asking them to ratify the convention. to avoid any wrong conclusions, i should clarify that the basel ban is mandatory, legally binding, for the european union member states, even those that have not ratified the convention, because we as the european union have signed and ratified the agreement.
the dumping of toxic waste by the dutch firm trafigura in the city of abidjan in the ivory coast is a disgrace which requires full investigation and tough action. there can be little doubt that this dumping was in breach of eu law and the basel convention. this environmental crime will once again create the view that the rich north regards poor africa as a suitable dumping ground. i welcome the commissioner’s statement which tries to counter this view, but statements are one thing: only action will convince africans that we are serious about dealing with this. apart from all the other issues that have to be investigated we need to know how it was possible for this ship to leave amsterdam. are the dutch authorities reviewing their inspection methods? will the commission raise the whole issue of inspection and enforcement at next month’s basel convention forum?
what has occurred in côte d’ivoire brings shame on the european union. in this parliament we are often at the forefront of the campaigns for better environmental protection. we are fond of stating that pollution does not respect borders. and yet, in 2006 we are witness to a situation in which 500 tonnes of toxic waste is transported from an eu member state and dumped upon the long-suffering people of côte d’ivoire. the immediate impact has been a number of deaths and tens of thousands of people needing medical attention. we have all seen the grim estimates of what the longer-term impact could prove to be. if our grand statements on environmental protection are to mean anything, then the commission and the dutch authorities must make a full investigation in pursuit of the culprits in this crime. clearly current legislation does not offer sufficient protection against unscrupulous people who care nothing for the people of côte d’ivoire and other african states. in the eu, we must act to ensure that our legislation on toxic waste is such that we can guarantee to people in africa that their countries will not be dumping grounds for our hazardous waste.
madam president, this report asserts that an eu-mediterranean agreement would give decisive impetus to the political, economic and social reforms needed in syria, yet the report also deplores the signing of a military agreement between syria and iran, which the syrians say will increase cooperation against what they call the common threat presented by israel and the usa. since 1995 the european union has given syria eur 259 million. the eu pays millions of euros to support the tyrannical syrian regime in the hope that somehow it will make them believers in democracy, civil liberties, human rights, etc. the syrians, on the other hand, now find that they have enough spare cash to be able to afford a military alliance with iran that will inevitably make the world a more dangerous place. eu taxpayers’ money should not be spent in supporting tyrannical and murderous regimes which are the enemies of democracy, freedom and peace.
madam president, the eu’s strategic interest with syria is maintaining peace in the wider middle east so that oil flows, and to steer the dispute between israel and the palestinians towards a durable two-state solution settlement, as detailed in mrs de keyser’s report. isolated syria has for some time been helping iran launch a combined pan-islamic offensive on israel, and syria seeks to keep the lebanese government weak by strongly backing iran’s proxy hezbollah, which syria believes will also help re-establish its influence in lebanon. nevertheless, syria has one redeeming feature: it is a secular country that recoils from islamic fundamentalism, and parts of the ruling ba’ath elite worry about syria’s deepening defence alliance with theocratic iran and islamist hezbollah. syria no longer needs to cosy up to iran in its old alliance against their common enemy, saddam hussein’s iraq. regrettably, hopes are now fading that the eu can deal directly with the palestinians under an intransigent hamas, which refuses to recognise israel or forswear violence. the time is therefore now ripe to offer assurances to syria that blocking hezbollah’s re-armament, stopping jihadi fighters’ passage into iraq and improving syria’s appalling human rights record would bring valuable benefits, including the eventual ratification of the strengthened association agreement with the eu. the eu, as a member of the quartet, can also help broker an acceptable peace agreement between israel and syria over the golan heights and the shebaa farms where the us may be unwilling. israel would gain much by talking to its enemy, syria. conscious of its vulnerability to rocket attacks, israel knows that it needs a defensible state, safe from external aggression. removing syria as a threat is a key element in achieving this strategic objective. but i endorse the findings of the report and i am hopeful now that the european union will look to using its considerable leverage over syria to achieve these objectives.
madam president, i should like to endorse the recommendations of mr de keyser’s report, in particular that it is time to review engagement with syria by europe and the world, not to compromise our principles but to advance them. a strong message needs to be sent to syria with regard to human rights and improving its record on freedom of expression, torture and abolition of the death penalty. the human rights lawyer anwar al-buni, who, amongst hundreds of others, signed the petition calling for respect for lebanese sovereignty, should be released from custody forthwith, along with hundreds of prisoners of conscience. labelling syria part of an axis of evil has achieved nothing. i welcome the fact that in the last month the commissioner has authorised her representatives to hold discussions with syria’s ministries for foreign affairs and economic affairs and that this week the european parliament will offer the prospect of signing the association agreement if syria genuinely chooses to work with europe to achieve peace in the middle east.
i have two points. first of all, a few months ago we were hearing about problems around the hosting of the agency in poland: inadequate provision of accommodation and so on. have those problems been resolved? secondly, will the finnish presidency pledge to support and to persuade other member states to accept the amendments that the european parliament is about to vote to the budget of frontex? this is amendment 836, to restore the sum as proposed by the commission, i.e., not to follow the council cuts and to put even more resources in reserve. will the finnish presidency support that increase in resources?
president of the council. mr president, the initiative presented to the council by the kingdom of belgium in november 2004 for a council framework decision on the recognition and enforcement of professional bans in the european union resulting from convictions for sexual offences against children is currently being examined by the council working groups. it was last dealt with by the criminal affairs task force in october, a week ago. the examination of the initiative is linked to discussions in council working groups on other proposals, such as the proposal for a framework decision on the taking into account of convictions in the member states of the european union in the new criminal procedure and the proposal for a framework decision on the organisation and content of the exchange of criminal records data between member states. there are therefore two other proposals for framework decisions to be examined. the common objective of these tools is to create structures to ensure that information on a person's criminal history is available in a comprehensive and effective manner. once all member states have implemented those acts in their national legislation in due time, it should be easier to prevent a convicted person from working with children or committing a new offence against children. the council will therefore continue to examine these draft framework decisions at working group level.
it seems to me that the council is going nowhere fast on these proposals. nearly two years ago we had an ambitious programme from the commission in response to strong public interest in ensuring that criminals, like sex offenders, are not the ones who exploit borders and profit from them. it seems to me that member states are not getting their act together on this. i do not understand how we can tell our public that the eu is effective in combating crime if the council is so slow in deciding on these top-priority measures to make sure that criminals are truly tracked, wherever they go.
president of the council. the protection of children, especially those convicted of sexual offences, from possible new attacks is of course a particularly important value. but these proposals for a framework decision have many problems, not only of principle but also of practical importance, for example, the fact that this so-called principle of professional prohibition does not even exist in all the member states, so we must look for a method that can be applied in all the member states of the union.
president of the council. mr president, this is a common objective, namely to protect children from convicted persons, and there are different ways of achieving this in the member states. for example, in my own country there is a system whereby an employer has the right to obtain criminal records from people applying for or applying for certain jobs and to determine on that basis whether that person is suitable for the job, but these jobs are very narrowly defined. the different ways in which this is organised in the member states is one reason why progress on this issue has been slow in the opinion of many members of this house.
i should like to refer to a specific case as a means of illustrating that the sharing of information is not enough. paul hunter redpath is a convicted paedophile who served the custodial part of his sentence in my constituency of northern ireland and then recently took refuge in the republic of ireland, in breach of the probation part of his sentence. he can now live there freely, and is unable to be arrested, whereas in northern ireland the penalty for breaching his probation order would be an immediate return to prison. is this case not a clear indication that full extradition arrangements are needed, otherwise justice will be evaded and full protection not afforded to the vulnerable? can the president-in-office accept that proper extradition is the optimum requirement?
it seems to me that the member states are muddling their way through to creating an agency that will not have within its responsibilities the very subject area where eu action is most likely to cause problems with regard to human rights. i have a further question: does the council not agree that we seem to be creating more and more agencies, like confetti sprinkled around the member states, so that everybody has one, rather than when there is a real need – not so much this one, perhaps, but many of the others that have been created? all of them have a top-heavy structure with a management board with representation from every member state and an administration that is sometimes smaller than the management board.
first of all i would like to thank the council presidency for the very detailed response to the question i tabled. i would, however, like one further specific piece of information. this goes back to my original question as to whether the particular issue in relation to pakistan/india and kashmir was actually specifically discussed at the eu summit with india in helsinki. the reason i ask that is because both those nations are having detailed discussions at foreign secretary level on 14 and 15 november. is there a specific message to them from the council?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for coming to speak to such a packed house about the most important subject facing the planet! you suggested before that this conference of the parties in nairobi is a bit of a marking-time sort of meeting, that the lateral events might be as important as the main ones. but we have often heard that, with every month that passes, the problems become greater and more difficult to resolve. so perhaps we cannot afford to have any more intermediate events: the stakes have to be raised and you have to try and extract everything you can from every possible meeting. i would like to raise three particular issues. first of all, transport emissions within the european union. according to current figures, five of the major car manufacturers are going to reach the voluntary agreement target of 140g of co2 by 2008, but 75% are not on target to reach that. just remember what that means. they signed a voluntary agreement with the commission, with the european union. in their own private boardrooms they have looked at the figures and recognised that they could make more profits out of suvs and four-wheel drives, and they have deliberately decided that they are not going to fulfil that commitment. they have torn it up, they have not shown good faith and it is now time for the commission to clamp down really hard. we know from the five who are meeting the target that there is nothing special about 140g. you need tough action, and i hope that will be forthcoming in the next few months. secondly, the national allocation plans. i know that you are sending the national allocation plans back to the member states and saying that a 15% margin between allocations and real co2 emissions is far from good enough. this is an impossible situation. you know that this is the most important instrument. you need to be tough and to use every resource the commission has at its disposal to emphasise that national governments have to act on the fine speeches they make in council. finally, looking ahead to the post 2012 emissions trading scheme, how are you going to make it work in future? free allocations were a good start, but proved pretty weak in practice. auctioning will still give windfall profits to some of the major power generators. you think you have to start looking at benchmarking, which is very difficult. but you need to tell industry now across the whole of europe that we are going to reward best practice and it should start investing now in making a difference to our planet.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, when people work on short-term contracts in countries other than their own, there are obvious advantages for all sides. so i am all in favour of posted workers – but not this way. the report says in paragraph 19 that this will not be achieved by huge bureaucracy, but some 35 out of 49 paragraphs include references to laws, rules, infringement procedures, ecj cases, enforcement by penalties. if this proposal is anything to go by, i am not surprised that the enterprise commissioner is behind schedule in his drive to simplify eu laws! for yet again we have a proposal carrying a raft of rules and regulations, backed up with so many references to penalties and infringement procedures that the rapporteur must be at her wits’ end trying to make a proposal which is easy to operate, fair to all, but effective. when this was debated a while ago in the committee on employment and social affairs, members were horrified to hear cases of blatant exploitation of posted workers. this must be stopped, but what were the member states doing? what were the trade unions doing? after all, it is highly likely that local workers were also being abused. were posted workers employed because local workers refused to accept the conditions on offer? the key lies in recital l on page 5 of the report, which talks about preventing the circumvention of national standards. since national standards are emphasised this way, why do we need an eu directive at all? why is it not left to member states, if it is their rules that control the situation? an eu directive will be a burden on all sides and produce delays, when all we want is people in work. after all, this is not a new situation. posted workers did not come about because of the eu. they existed before there was an eu. my own brother, english like myself, was an engineering draughtsman. he became self-employed, took up a contract with volkswagen and worked in germany for several years. he had no problems at all, but that was before the uk joined the then ec. so i repeat, we do not need this directive. member states are perfectly capable of managing their affairs within the existing regulations of the european union – in short, subsidiarity. do you remember that?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, here we are again telling the european central bank how to do its job! not only is this against the spirit of the treaty, which states that the ecb is independent, it is also largely a waste of time, because, as always, the ecb will listen politely but, quite rightly, take little notice. indeed, the ecb has enough trouble of its own, without listening to this parliament, in finding an interest rate that suits 12 different economies, soon to be more. the one-size-fits-all problem does not go away. at the moment, the larger eurozone economies are enjoying slightly higher growth but, as mr trichet accepts, this is fragile. when it falters, his problem of choosing the right interest rate will become more critical. effectively, the ecb will be forced into a choice between inflation in germany or recession in southern europe, with all the dire implications for government debts that this will entail. i wonder what advice this parliament will be giving then.
mr president, yet again it is necessary to draw attention to the fact that the ecb continues to print large numbers of 500-euro notes, which are only useful to those who are hoarding ill-gotten gains or laundering money. indeed, the volume of printing has recently even gone up. yet the sunday times in london recently published an extensive article detailing much evidence about the use of these notes in spain, italy and greece, directly for money-laundering purposes. the only possible conclusion we can reach is that the ecb is actively involved in aiding and abetting money laundering.
mr president, i support mrs batzeli, mr goepel and mr busk. this is a very important debate: it is about the whole future of the common agricultural policy. it concerns all the countries in the european union, but none more than the united kingdom. as we have to catch planes this afternoon, it is simply impossible to debate it now. we really need to postpone the debate and the vote until november. i hope you will accept that situation.
rapporteur. – mr president, it is good to get the vote on the 2007 budget under way. before we start on the vote on parliament’s first reading, i should like to announce that a small number of technical adjustments need to be made. rather than read out a very long list of numbers, the list of technical adjustments has been annexed to our voting lists. following the vote those adjustments will be made by the relevant departments and included in the minutes of the sitting.
mr president, i should just like to thank you very much for the fast and efficient way in which you have organised business since you took the chair.
in writing. ukip voted for every reduction or cancellation of payments, especially the ones concerning subsidies and propaganda, on the principle that these funds should not have been used for these purposes. concerning euronews, this is blatant propaganda and the media should stay independent.
in writing. smoking kills half a million eu citizens every year. smoking is the biggest cause of preventable illness and disease across the eu. it is disappointing that amendments 376, 489 and 529 were rejected (232 votes for, 333 votes against). subsidies for tobacco-growing in the eu need to end.
in writing. this budget again fails to find the money to meet our commitments, particularly in relation to our emerging common foreign and security policy and our development policy. the eu's ability to play a global role is being hampered by 'bean-counters' back in our national capital. for this they bear a heavy responsibility. on two details i will be voting against the amendment from our ultra-nationalistic and catholic fundamentalists from poland urging opposition to forced or 'coercive' abortions. of course i am opposed to such an idea, but the eu is not supporting such a programme. rather it is an attempt to introduce us evangelical christian bigotry into eu development policy and must be opposed for that very reason. second, i want proper control of spending and value for money. yet some pursue these demands as a way of tying commission staff into overly-bureaucratic regulations that hamper and hinder work, rather than assist.
in writing. once again we are adopting a budget which does not meet the commitments entered into by the eu institutions. this is particularly true in relation to foreign and security policy and development policy. it is bound to increase the impression in the world that the eu is very poor when it comes to putting its money where its mouth is. that said, i welcome the emphasis in this budget on proper control and getting value for money.
in writing. i will be supporting this resolution. the tragedy of this failed revolution, brutally put down by soviet imperial troops with the death of thousands, is that it closed down an evolutionary path out of soviet oppression to engagement with the rest of the world, a slow but sure path to pluralism and democracy. instead, tens of thousands fled as refugees. i remember as a six-year-old schoolchild being sent to collect a hungarian refugee child who was to join my class at my school in gloucestershire, on his first day. seeing the misery and distress of him and his family was probably my first experience of the consequences of oppression for the lives and future of ordinary people. i have never forgotten it.
in writing. i welcome this vote on the export of toxic waste to africa. the recent incident involving a dutch company dumping waste in the ivory coast demonstrates that many in europe still see africa as a dumping ground. i hope the dutch authorities leave no stone unturned in bringing those responsible to justice.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. it is clear that many companies and individuals routinely abuse laws designed to protect the environment. they often find it cheaper to pay fines than to comply with laws on dumping or transporting toxic waste. if we want to protect the environment we must consider criminal as well as civil action against the abusers.
in writing. i welcome this agreement. syria has much to do in terms of improving human rights, its relationship with its neighbours and its treatment of its minorities. however, i believe constructive agreement is the way forward.
in writing. one of the most important issues facing the world today is the issue of climate change and how to tackle it. this is no longer an issue for tomorrow, but now. the time for action is upon us. all the evidence from the world's scientists tells us exactly that, even if the bush administration is lying to gag its own experts' contributions to the debate. it is the american administration that is the problem. everyone is horrified by the consequences of the second gulf war for the ordinary people of iraq, with the recent estimate that there have been more than 650,000 deaths amongst the civilian population. yet the failure to sign the kyoto agreement threatens billions around the world, and the very existence of nations like bangladesh and the maldives. this will be the legacy of this united states administration unless they are prepared to look again. but i am afraid there are none so blind as those that cannot see!
mr president, i thought you might like to know that i voted in favour of the resolution that we adopted on the basis of the schroedter report from the employment committee, because i think its general thrust, which is that we need better application of the existing legislation, rather than new legislation, is the right one at this time. however, i think that in due course, once we have evaluated whether we have managed to get this legislation better applied in the near future, we shall need to return to the question of whether the original directive needs amending, updating or improving in other ways.
in writing. where companies in one country wish legally to post workers to work in another eu country, such a procedure should be made straightforward rather than burdened by yet more bureaucracy. parliament should not give its approval to practices deemed illegal by the european court of justice and disporportionate by the commission. the schroedter report on the posting of workers calls for extra bureaucracy such as prior declarations from companies intending to post workers and the requirement to keep detailed time sheet records, etc. such practices are disproportionate, promote protectionism and undermine the services directive. sending out this message undermines the eu commitment to the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. the commission text is sensible and practical. this socialist report attempts to move the text in the wrong direction. in this context uk conservatives have been unable to support this report.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party (eplp) voted to support the schroedter report on the posted workers directive as there is a need to improve the implementation of this important legislation to aid the free movement of workers. however, the eplp recognises that member states have different enforcement mechanisms and there may be differences in, for example, information requirements between member states. any requirements must be proportionate and justified. it is important that this legislation does not add unnecessary burdens to business and interfere with the right of foreign services providers to post workers.
in writing. the policy of the conservative party in relation to the euro is clear: we are firmly committed to keeping the pound. nevertheless, as the european union in general and the eurozone in particular are our largest trading partners, we are ever vigilant of the need for the euro's stability, since this directly affects britain's prosperity. we therefore reserve the right to make ourselves heard when we believe that unwarranted political pressure is being directed against the independence of the european central bank. in the last year, as interest rates have been raised from their historic low, the ecb has been under political attack, and an attempt was made to use this report to interfere in its management. fortunately, the report in its final form respected the ecb's independence, and we have therefore taken the exceptional step of endorsing it to make known our commitment to a sound monetary policy.
in writing. although i could agree with the broad thrust of this report, particularly in the area of transparency and scrutiny, there is one issue i believe needs a sensitive touch – hedge funds. it is appropriate for all central monetary authorities to maintain a vigilant approach to hedge funds. however, the call for research to promote regulation is premature. the need to regulate could be disproportionate to any potential threat such funds are perceived to have.
mr president, i wish to begin by saying to mrs sinnott that it is clouding the issue to raise points like that, which are entirely separate from what we are discussing here today. approximately 2500 tibetans – possibly more – annually flee across the border from the himalayas into exile. they are certainly escaping from the brutality of china’s occupation, but it is not necessarily as mrs sinnott suggests. it is difficult to know how many are caught or shot by the chinese border authorities, because the allegations have generally remained uninvestigated. this particularly horrendous shooting incident on 30 september is in violation of the basic un principles on the use of force and firearms by law-enforcement officials. it is interesting that there are guidelines as to when law-enforcement officials can shoot, but these require that they should not use firearms against persons except in self-defence or defence of others against the imminent threat of death or serious injury. those of us who have seen the video clips of this incident know that the situation was not one involving grave threats to life. it appeared to be an unprovoked attack. that is why the motion for a resolution before us is very important, in particular paragraph 8, which urges the council and the commission to reiterate their position regarding dialogue between the appropriate authorities. that is a position we must echo this afternoon: dialogue to resolve this situation.
author. – (the speaker spoke irish) during the 1980s and 1990s, guatemala was constantly in the international news. three decades of conflict and a decade-long peace process ensured that people all over the world, including those here in the european parliament, remained informed. colleagues have mentioned some of the stark figures from that period: 200 000 people killed, thousands more displaced, entire villages and communities destroyed forever. the government’s own investigation confirmed that 93% of all killings were the responsibility of the government’s own armed forces. the military dictatorship of rios montt in the early 1980s was singled out as one of the conflict’s most brutal periods. there was great optimism after the signing of the peace agreements but, ten years later, the reality has changed very little for people in that country, where 80% of the population live in poverty. ten years on, not only have the perpetrators of the policy of genocide carried out in the 1980s not been prosecuted, they continue to play prominent roles in public life. the victims and survivors of the conflict have received neither adequate financial support nor recognition of their suffering. indeed, the vast majority of the disappeared have not been found. many of those displaced have yet to be returned to their original homes. i welcome the demand in the resolution, which seeks the support of the government of guatemala, the other central american governments, the spanish government and the government of the united states, for the european order of detention to be facilitated, with reference to the international order of detention, so that those mentioned in the warrant issued on 7 july 2005 – all of whom are charged with crimes of genocide, including rios montt – can be brought to justice. i would also urge members to be cognisant of the fact that very little has changed for people. for the majority of guatemalans, conditions today differ little from those of 1996. the peace dispensation promised a demilitarisation of society and much-needed land and tax reform, the aim of which was to build a more just and equal society. surely today we should remember that, even if guatemala is not so often in the news, and we should continue to demand and press for an equal and just society. i therefore welcome and stress the resolution’s commitment to the principle of universal justice and the protection of human rights. our experience in ireland has taught us that peace can only be built on justice and respect for the rights of all.
author. – mr president, unusually for us, sanctions are currently in place against uzbekistan. sanctions should be used sparingly and only as a last resort, but we in this house should not be afraid to call for them and indeed to see them implemented, as they are the only real weapon for encouraging internal change within that country. it is important for the eu to speak with one voice and this motion for a resolution seeks to do just that. first, we need to agree on a reality check. in recital c we note the fact that: ‘the government of uzbekistan has not addressed the conditions the council set out when sanctions were applied’. so any moves to lift the sanctions currently in place would be counter-intuitive and bizarre. it would be a bizarre incentive or reward for, in effect, ignoring us. and yet, as we say in recital b, the general affairs and external relations council is expected to consider on 13 november whether it will extend the sanctions adopted last year. we understand there are genuine moves afoot to lift the sanctions. my group disagrees with that and we hope the house will follow us. we believe that the sanctions should be extended and widened, particularly in the light of uzbekistan’s continued refusal to allow an independent inquiry into the events in andijan. we would like to see provision in paragraph 2 for the sanctions to be extended, with a targeted visa ban on specific key individuals. that will underline our growing frustration at the lack of progress without any detriment to the uzbek people themselves. it is important that we keep up the pressure. we hope that the house will not lose its nerve. while i have no doubt that the commissioner shares our concerns, we hope that she will match our commitment.
mr president, i rise to ask you and others in this house to use their best offices to intervene in the case of ten iranian ahwazi arab rights activists who, according to the iranian media, face the death penalty this week. the men stand accused of bombing oil installations, but the evidence is unconvincing. all ten men made confessions under torture. according to amnesty international and human rights watch none of them had a fair trial. their lawyers were not allowed to see them before their trial and were only briefed on the prosecution case a few hours before the start of court proceedings, which were held in secret. the lawyers for the condemned men have themselves been arrested for complaining about the illegal and unjust nature of these trials, and have been charged with threatening national security. i therefore hope that many members will make contact with the iranian authorities to make clear their views on these tragic cases.
mr president, i would like to raise the issue of incitement to racial and religious hatred in europe. over the past two weeks in the united kingdom we have had two trials. one concerned a young muslim who, during a demonstration regarding, i believe, the infamous danish cartoons, called for the beheading of those who insult islam. he was rightly convicted and imprisoned. yet, in contrast, nick griffin, the leader of britain’s neo-fascist british national party, who was caught by the bbc declaring islam a vile and wicked religion, was found not guilty of the same. i would ask that the relevant commissioner considers whether or not at european level we need new and stronger legislation in this area. this is not an issue of freedom of speech, but freedom from fear. comments like those of the bnp leader put the muslim and minority communities at risk. the evidence is that, when bnp councillors are elected, racist violence in the relevant area doubles or triples, leading to problems for the whole area.
mr president, events seem to have overtaken this report. in spite of commissioner almunia’s comments, its upbeat projections for growth in the eurozone contrast sharply with the economic data released at the end of last week, which put growth in the french economy at zero. there are also signs of faltering growth across the eurozone, which will not be helped by the austere taxation regimes being introduced in germany and italy next year to meet the eurozone’s stability requirements. what this report does not tell us is that the government of italy is on the brink of collapse because of mr prodi’s determination to introduce tax increases and budget cuts demanded by the european commissioner for economic affairs to bring italy into line with the maastricht treaty. it also does not mention the riots in hungary following the hungarian prime minister’s revelations that he had lied morning, noon and night about the tax increases and public spending that he had secretly promised that same commissioner. forcing many of our new members of the eu to abide by deflationary policies designed for the more developed economies of the eurozone is generating weak demand, weak growth and mass unemployment. this report also fails to mention that the maastricht treaty has turned the eastern europeans into second-class citizens: they have no chance of joining the eurozone in the foreseeable future, while having to manage their economies in line with its requirements. sooner or later the people of europe are going to get restless with a system that keeps them permanently in the economic slow lane, while denying them any democratic say in how it should be run.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, having a marine strategy that does not concentrate on fish is like filling a goldfish bowl with clean water after the cat has already taken and eaten the goldfish! having said that, there is strong support in this house for the principles behind this strategy and for the legislation, and that is hardly surprising given the catastrophic picture the commission has painted of the state of our seas. we need to introduce protective measures that are enforceable through the courts in order to ensure that member states apply them. the commissioner used strong words, which we welcome, but the proposals originally submitted to parliament highlighted some of the weaknesses and divisions within the commission itself. one thing we are most pleased about is the fact that the whole idea of good environmental status has been reinserted into the proposals and given a clear definition, and we are united on there being powers to create marine protected zones. however, why were those ideas not in the commission’s original document? when it came out of dg environment they were, but by the time it emerged from the college some of these crucial matters had been deleted. the time has come for the commission to back up its fine words on sustainability with some united action from the commissioners of each department. we hear that there are divergent views in the council – so be it. but the message to the commission and the council from this parliament should be that there is strong cross-party support for a significant improvement and strengthening of the measures being proposed. the commission was right to draft these proposals, but let us now ensure that the warm sentiments can be transformed into practical action.
i have the privilege of representing scotland in this parliament and that means i also represent a large share of the eu’s indigenous resources of oil and gas. as i understand it, we are committed to maximising the potential of our indigenous energy resources. surely this is only sensible for economic and logistical reasons and for security of supply. it is also the case that the extraction of hydrocarbons in the north sea is already well regulated in all its environmental and ecological aspects. yet certain amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety will effectively stop exploitation of these resources. that is just plain absurd. indeed these amendments will even, i understand, cause suspension of a major offshore wind project in the moray firth. much of the research funding for this came from the european union. do we want to look ridiculous? do we want to hobble our few indigenous energy resources and become even more dependent on one or two dominant, and often domineering, external suppliers? the north sea’s ecology must be considered holistically in north sea terms. the north sea is not the mediterranean. i appeal to the rapporteur and other sensible groups to support the ppe-de amendments, which will make this proposal ambitious – yes – but also responsible and practical.
mr president, the european union has 68 000 kilometres of coastline; scotland has 11 000 kilometres. almost 50% of the eu population live within 50 kilometres of the sea; in scotland 70% live within 10 kilometres of the sea. clearly it is in scotland’s long-term interests to protect the marine environment and to conserve its wealth of marine resources for the long term. scotland has oil and gas reserves for at least another 30 years. i will be supporting various amendments that will ensure that oil and gas extraction can continue to benefit the scottish and eu economies. i cannot support committee amendment 8 in the lienemann report, as drafted, because it seeks to link the marine strategy to ‘the principles of the common fisheries policy’. the cfp has been a miserable failure and the last thing i want to see is a new marine strategy linked to such a flawed set of principles. the idea that member states should determine what good environmental status is in waters under their jurisdiction, and work with their neighbours in logical marine regions, makes a lot of sense. fisheries management should be brought into that common sense situation, and jurisdiction should be returned to the member states so that, for example, countries around the north sea can work together with those who have most to gain from conservation being encouraged, giving the incentive to make a marine strategy succeed.
mr president, this was an example of the law of unintended consequences, not a disaster. we must await the outcome of the inquiry you have launched and avoid kneejerk reactions. we have learned once again that people’s behaviour is not always predictable. i submit that it is not possible to legislate against every eventuality. this was primarily a technical problem and not necessarily one about policy. i would remind the commissioner and the house that we already have legislation in place in the shape of the security of electricity supply and infrastructure directive, for which i was parliament’s rapporteur. we should wait for that piece of legislation to bed down and be seen to be properly transposed and implemented in member states before we move on to enact more legislation. let us learn from this, but let us also remember that the network operators – the transmission system operators – have a remarkable record of maintaining supply. as my colleague, mr rübig, has said, a 100% supply is a difficult target to achieve. i believe they do a pretty good job. i invite the commissioner to come and join my colleagues on the committee on industry, research and energy. we are going back to our committee meeting after this discussion. one of the matters we will be discussing is mrs morgan’s report on the green paper. it is good to see the commissioner here and if he does not have to rush away he will be very welcome to join us.
mr president, commissioner, the ability to have a clear and certain future is very important for any business, none more so than for dairy farmers and for the dairy industry. quotas are in place until 2015 and this i believe was a good decision during the mid-term review. but to now cast doubt on this on the part of the commission sends the wrong message and i am pleased that the commissioner went some way tonight to assure us of what the commission’s position is. commissioner, you said that quotas have outlived their usefulness. well, ok, you may be right, but i have to say to you that 2015 is a long time away and it is very difficult to crystal-ball gaze and see what conditions will be like at that time. in 2015, you rightly say, we should have a soft landing and when the time comes for quotas to disappear i think that soft landing should come into place. what i question is the timing. so far from the date, by all means let us have an exchange of views on what may or may not happen, but how do we encourage our young people to go into the industry? how do we take young farmers into the industry? how do they plan for the future if the future is being questioned at this moment in time? the dairy sector, as you know only too well, is the backbone of the agricultural industry throughout the european union. we must work together to achieve a sound future for that industry. only by working together can we achieve that sound future. i hope that you will take the opportunity to engage with us in the committee on agriculture and positively and actively be involved in ensuring that there is a future for the dairy sector, for dairy farmers and for the dairy industry. it is not only the people who are employed on the farms who are important; the people who are employed in the processing industries and off the farms are equally important.
mr president, i wish to thank mr freitas for bringing this forward and the commissioner for being here tonight, because this debate is really worthwhile. we have to face up to the fact that, as milk quotas and set-aside do not fit easily into a decoupled agricultural policy, they will have to be phased out in the future. we must also set a date and stick to it, because ever since i have been here quotas have been about to be phased out, and it has never happened. we must face the reality that one day they actually will go. everyone in this house accepts the value of dairy production to all our member states – nowhere more so than in my own region of the uk, the west country, where dairying is the bread and butter of the whole area but is also under huge pressure. what is interesting about quota and the value of quota is that ten years ago in the united kingdom the rate was nearly a pound a litre, whereas now it is worth a penny a litre. we must therefore remember that in many ways quota is not a tangible substance, and its value can disappear overnight. we have to be very careful about how we deal with this. in the uk, it is the power of the supermarkets and the driving-down of prices which is now the real problem. we are not even meeting our national quota, which shows there is a problem with price. at certain points over the last 20 years there has been a world increase in dairy trade, but because in europe control is exercised over the amounts produced, it has never been able to take advantage of this. we therefore need to have a more flexible regime in the future. i should like to hear the commissioner’s views on that. new zealand – which probably produces milk as effectively as anybody – still has a form of quota, because it has a national cooperative, of which farmers have to be shareholders in order to be able produce extra milk. it is interesting to explore the arrangements beyond 2015, but first we must face up to the reality that quotas need to go.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, according to government figures, the average earnings of farmers in my constituency in scotland in 2005 were gbp 10 000, or eur 14 000. this is disastrous: it is forcing farmers into bankruptcy! they do not have any room for reinvestment in the industry. instead of offering practical help, prime minister blair comes up with the startling proposal to slash 20% off farmers’ single-farm payments, on top of the existing 5% compulsory modulation that already exists and, as we have heard from mr goepel, a further 8% that will be deducted to pay for bulgaria and romania. in other words, british farmers – as britain appears to be the only member state really pushing for this voluntary modulation – will lose roughly 33% of their subsidy, which for many of them is a vital lifeline. but worse, this naked discrimination against uk farmers will place them at a huge competitive disadvantage to all other farmers in every other member state in europe. i say to the commissioner: it may be that in the eyes of the wto this does not amount to trade distortion, but in the pockets of farmers it certainly amounts to a catastrophe. i must also protest at the threats being issued by the uk government, which tells us that if we vote against voluntary modulation it will compromise the future of the popular agri-environment schemes in which many uk farmers have participated. this is tantamount to blackmail and coming from a government that has imposed more than 80 stealth taxes, from a chancellor – gordon brown – who has made taxation in the uk higher than germany or france and now wants us to believe that he needs to slash 25% off our farmers’ single-farm payments in order to be able to afford agri-environment schemes, it is an absolute joke. i can tell mr brown that if he watches the way this house votes on this proposal, he will see what we think of his sense of humour.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr mulder and mr goepel on their reports. my first point is that this is an extremely bad proposal. we know how it originated in the council meeting last december. i would say to the commissioner that this is a proposal that will only be implemented in the united kingdom. we all know that. even the dogs in the street know that. it has been brought in to help blair and his government try and resolve their problem. it will place united kingdom farmers in an impossible position. financially, they will be in a totally invidious position compared to other farmers in all parts of the other 24 eu member states. in northern ireland it will erode the concept of the family farm, which is the backbone of our industry. i therefore totally reject this proposal, and will not stand by and allow anyone to hijack farmers’ single farm payments. this was something that was agreed. it was promised and it is depended upon. it is not the fault of our farmers that the uk government has negotiated such a miserable deal on development of the second pillar in support of the rural economy. i must say to the commission, the council and the uk government that they should not blame us if now they do not have sufficient funds to support some of their proposals for the rural and environmental development of the countryside. i can take no blame for this. it is totally the responsibility of the negotiators. i must also tell the truth, which is that the so-called negotiators have achieved the worst possible deal, and that they now want to hijack a maximum of 20% or perhaps even 25% of farmers' single farm payments. such a proposal must not be agreed to, either now or in the future. it will turn farmers and other members of rural society against each other. it is unworkable and will spell the beginning of the renationalisation of the common agricultural policy as we have known it. it must not be accepted. this dossier will have to be referred back to committee, and i will call on the commission not to fall into what is a skilful trap that would set farmers and other rural dwellers at each others’ throats. we have a duty to reject this legislation. we must never agree to this covert means of undermining uk farmers and placing them in a position so subservient to the rest of the european union.
mr president, i speak on behalf of the uk delegation in my group. we fully understand the cogency of the arguments in the goepel report and the reasons for the committee on agriculture and rural development’s voting indications. however, the approach of successive westminster governments to eu rural development funding has restricted its availability in the uk. our allocation for 2007 to 2013 is only a quarter of what fairness would in principle require. in default of some further degree of modulation, there would be severe constraints on establishing and maintaining effective rural development programmes, particularly in relation to the environment. there is also a risk of delays in making some of the payments of which farmers have a legitimate expectation. i am grateful to the commission for its willingness to explore the ways in which it might be possible to overcome such immediate practical problems, but that can only be a stopgap. we need a much longer-term solution. we therefore call on the commission, as a matter of urgency, to find a way of redressing the current historical imbalances in the allocation of rural development funding. as a scot, i ask that, in any further discussions on modulation, both the commission and colleagues on the committee on agriculture take account of the fact that the levels are of concern not only to member states but to administrations at sub-state level as well.
mr president, i should like to thank mr goepel and mr mulder for these reports. commissioner, you know very well that your heart is not in this and that you are having to do the council’s bidding. this is a complete mess. you have a lot of support here in parliament. in fact, the council has managed to unite the whole parliament against this proposal. when we vote tomorrow we will reject it, it will go back to committee and we will reject it again. so i urge you to come forward with a new proposal. when i first came to the european parliament, my farming friends told me the one thing they wanted out of europe was a level playing field. that may be a forlorn hope, but this proposal makes it less level than it has ever been. i do not need to tell you, commissioner, that the british government is about to be fined for not meeting the deadline for the single farm payment scheme. so what do you do? when it cannot make the payments on time, you give it more rural development money to squander. you can imagine how much confidence farmers have in the government to deliver that at the moment. as i look across the house tonight, it is interesting that there is not one member of the labour party on the socialist benches. who is here to defend mr blair’s proposal? no one. so look to us for help. as mr stevenson said, the government is putting enormous pressure on us to say that we are against environmental schemes. can i put it clearly on record that we are not, and nor is the commissioner. but we need to move forward with more money going from the first to the second pillar, all across europe; a compulsory modulation on a level amount. also, as other speakers have said, there has been no proper impact assessment of this proposal. it cannot possibly go forward. the cotton regime was scrapped after a ruling by the european court of justice. please think again and come back with a new proposal.
mr president, i apologise for not being in the house when i was first called but my travel arrangements went rather awry today. voluntary modulation is but fancy phraseology for a very unpleasant practice, namely government grab of farmers’ money. as mrs mcguiness has said, there is nothing voluntary about it, certainly in respect of those from whom the money is to be extracted, namely the farmers. the consequence is a very unbalanced rural development programme right across europe, both in how it is financed and then in how it is delivered. that, of course, is then discriminatory against the farmers in those member states that practice this madness of voluntary modulation. in my country we are already seeing the consequences, with delays in the intended lfa payments. voluntary modulation is something to be resisted. i welcome the stance of the committee and the stance of this house when it rejects it and i urge the commission to be robust in forcing a change of policy by the council on this matter.
madam president, the court of auditors has confirmed there is no independent audit of any part of these accounts, including the treasury function, which sometimes sits on a pile of eur 20 billion or more. i would like the court to explain precisely how many years it has carried out a full and specific audit of the treasury function, and would also like confirmation as to how frequently, such as once annually, it might undertake such a task in the future. the court has also confirmed that eu funds are held in the individual member states before being allocated for use there. the cash flow and interest-bearing consequences of that are important and hitherto unknown. net contributors like the uk and germany are at a disadvantage, because a large proportion of their funds are stored in recipient countries. the french, on the other hand, are always holding the funds of net contributors and routinely earning interest on the overnight money markets. how much money has been lost to british and german taxpayers through the use of this system? finally, i should point out that i have been asking mr weber these questions for over six months, and still await a reply.
madam president, i am tempted to ask you simply to read the speech i made last year. the comments from the president of the court of auditors sum it up very neatly. overall, the situation has not substantially changed since last year. in fact, the court’s press statement makes it abundantly clear that nothing has changed, with comments like ‘due to continue in high levels of error’ and the pièce de résistance, ‘errors with a financial impact are found too frequently for the court to conclude that all is well’. the only real difference this year is that the commission has been more strident in denying its responsibility for the mess. i must thank commissioner kallas for providing me with the rib-tickler of the year, when he said that the perception of fraud in the eu finances is ‘highly unfair’ and that the spending of money in the eu is under tight control. yes, and santa claus really does come down the chimney! blaming the nation states for most of the fraud is an easy way out. the commission is supposed to enforce the rules and oversee spending. therefore it must take the blame for all those invisible cows in slovenia, a country that has only been a member for two years but has quickly learnt to play the system. nothing has been learnt and the mistakes go on being repeated.
madam president, i was interrupted in the middle of my speech because apparently you were not correctly informed of the amount of time available to me. i was unable, therefore, to make what i believe is a very important point and draw to the attention of this house other words that are included in the house of lords’ report published last night, which say – and mr kallas omitted to mention them – that the commission should focus on requiring officials and existing audit bodies to take responsibility for their systems and accounts, and that this process should culminate in the requirement for the secretary-general of the commission to sign an assurance that the commission’s annual accounts are true and fair. that seems to me to be one of the most important statements we have yet had on the process of improving standards in this house, and i wish to make sure it is fully understood.
eu spending shares the weakness common to many large organisations, governments, ministries and international organisations: money is spent over such a range of activities and in so many places that the auditors cannot guarantee that the exact amounts were always spent correctly. the us federal budget has not had a positive statement of assurance for about eight years. britain’s department for work and pensions has not had its equivalent statement for the last 15 years – and its budget is larger than that of the whole eu! as the uk’s house of lords reported yesterday, there appears to be relatively little actual fraud on the eu budget. the auditors have rather found cases of technical irregularities, which normally result in a refund to the eu budget anyway, or a late payment, or incomplete paperwork which gets chased up later. sensationalist press articles then classify all these as ‘fraud’, which they are not. further progress in eliminating such errors is needed. i would like to see a system where the annual statements of assurance had to be given to the commission departments and each of the 25 national governments individually, rather than in one single statement for the whole eu.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – mr president, the sesar project is one which will greatly benefit not just europe's aviation sectors, but the consumer as well. when sesar is launched, airline efficiency will be improved, with more direct routing, less congestion in the skies and greater reliability for passengers. the environment will also benefit from the system, because it will shorten routes and reduce stacking and thus reduce the co2 emissions caused by aviation. however, it strikes me that, with such an important project, it is unacceptable, given that the original single skies legislation was dealt with under codecision, for the implementation process only to be carried out under the consultation procedure. that surely raises the question as to why the commission feels it can pick and choose about when to involve the only democratically elected eu institution in the development of such proposals. more worryingly, the commission and eurocontrol are attempting to accrue to themselves 60% of the voting rights on the administrative board. the sesar project should be driven by industry, not by bureaucrats. we cannot expect industry to pay for the development of a project when it will have little control over its direction. that is why i and the co-rapporteur on the lead committee, on behalf of our group, have tabled an amendment to reduce voting rights, to give industry and the air navigation service providers the incentive to be involved from the outset. the sesar project can help shape the future of european aviation. it can be a positive force for change if it is given the support of all players in the sectors on a fair and equal basis. i therefore call on the house to support our amendment to give this important project just the direction it needs.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work. we need a new-generation air traffic management system for europe to improve air transport safety and environmental performance. sesar will deliver what the archaic and fragmented current air traffic control technologies are incapable of. the sesar joint undertaking must be established now in such a way that we avoid unnecessary problems and delays further down the line. the approach of a public-private joint undertaking is still quite a new one and i hope that the commission will be up-front and transparent on lessons learned from the galileo joint undertaking. the sesar joint undertaking needs to be reviewed periodically to make sure that the teething troubles experienced by galileo are not repeated. parliament, as well as the council, should be kept informed and consulted on issues such as the accession of new members and the appointment of the executive director. it was strongly felt in committee that the appointment of the executive director must be made following an open competition and on criteria of competence and experience. in no way should it be a political appointment or a perk. the committee also stressed the ongoing importance of eurocontrol. its involvement is essential, given its experience and expertise. finally, on the issue of where the joint undertaking should be located, i agree with the original commission proposal that for practical reasons the seat should be in brussels. opening up the seat as a discussion point would unnecessarily waste time and could prolong the establishment phase of the joint undertaking. this is a point which will not be lost on those meps who deplore the waste of time, money and energy caused by the failure to locate parliament permanently in brussels.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, may i first of all pay tribute to the work that mrs sornosa martínez has done on this report, even though i do not agree with all of her conclusions. nevertheless, we have worked very well together on this. in march this year the house debated the commission’s mercury strategy. it asked the commission to restrict the marketing and use of mercury in all measuring and control equipment but to allow for some exemptions. it also called on the commission to permit the use of mercury by the small number of professional companies in the eu that produce traditional barometers. nevertheless, i am sorry to say that the commission completely ignored parliament’s wishes at that stage and went on to propose the directive that we are debating today. this directive will ban the production of all new barometers. as members will be aware, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety subsequently adopted an amendment, which i tabled, introducing an exemption for this long-established traditional european art. along with mr blokland, we have retabled that amendment for plenary to consider. i would point out to the commissioner that we are not talking about the general introduction of new mercury into the environment – the vast majority of these makers actually use recycled mercury taken out of the environment in the production of these new instruments. there are a very small number of smes throughout europe that continue this traditional art, mainly in belgium, the netherlands, france, portugal and the uk. if this directive is implemented as the council wishes, those businesses would almost certainly be forced to close, thus eliminating places where consumers can take their existing instruments for repair and for maintenance. let us not forget that there are hundreds of thousands of traditional barometers hanging on people’s walls all over europe. this directive would of course not affect that, but it could potentially remove places where people could get those instruments repaired and maintained. the banning of new barometers will not stop pollution; in fact it could become more prevalent as the general public would have nowhere to take their instruments. there are also some enormous loopholes in the legislation. it is only the marketing of new devices that is prohibited. there is nothing to stop manufacturers from selling new barometers without any mercury, along with a set of instructions on how consumers can fill them themselves. that is surely more hazardous than allowing them to continue production in carefully controlled and licensed circumstances.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i think the case for this legislation is compelling. the commissioner said that there are alternatives to mercury barometers and i therefore support everything my colleague mrs sornosa martínez has said. mercury is extremely toxic. it is bioaccumulative and persistent in the environment and there is no safe exposure level. i ask the ppe-de group to think again. to mr callanan and the conservatives i say that at your party conference your leader said that you want to replace dangerous chemicals with safe ones. the tory party website says that you are going to do that. you have to vote to change things and not just say you are going to do so. i hope that the ppe-de group will support this very sensible measure to phase out an extremely dangerous chemical from our environment. we have given a two-year extension to companies to phase out their production. that is not what the council wanted, but we have 25 governments here, experts from 25 countries, the european commission and the majority of political groups, and i hope that the house will support the report and be consistent with the principle of substitution of dangerous chemicals.
mr president, across europe barometer manufacturing has been part of our heritage for many centuries. it often involves the recycling of mercury from old instruments. the environmental and health threat posed is, i would suggest, so miniscule as to be out of all proportion to the devastating ban which this directive would impose on future production of barometers. it would kill off an historic skill in return for no meaningful gain. thus i strongly support amendment 19 to exempt barometer manufacturers from the ambit of this directive. seeking to include barometers epitomises in a way the fanatical and irrational dogma that all too often drives and brings ridicule to otherwise sensible commission proposals. i trust that in the name of common sense we will say no to the ban on the production of barometers.
rapporteur. – mr president, what i was trying to tell you before was that mr allister’s speech was coming through in a foreign language on the english channel, so the english was being translated into something else, i do not know what. i am sorry mr allister, but we could not make out what you were saying! european mortgage loans outstanding amount to some eur 5 trillion, or 45% of the eu’s gdp, and mortgage lending has grown by 9.4% per annum over the past five years. a home is usually the largest purchase made in a lifetime, and the related mortgage is the most important financial obligation most people ever have. it is no surprise, therefore, that the commission has focused on this area as it shifts its attention to retail financial services. the mortgage market is fragmented along national lines and opening up this market should lead to consumers being offered better value and a greater choice of mortgage products. there could be more opportunities for those people who currently find it difficult to get a mortgage, such as first-time buyers or people with fixed-term contracts. it should make it easier for people moving to another eu country for work or retirement or wanting to buy a second property abroad. for lenders, a more integrated market would offer greater economies of scale, reduce costs and lower rates for the borrower. on the other hand, local culture and traditions have shaped the products available and consumers will not want any diminution of existing consumer protection standards. full harmonisation would be expensive for the industry and could limit the range of products it offers. the industry is highly competitive within most of our member states, so we must not take heavy-handed action that might damage this booming sector. we want to see a european mortgage credit market with a broad range of products at competitive prices and any changes must benefit mortgage borrowers above all. we are therefore against a grand harmonising piece of legislation. it would be bad for consumers and bad for business. instead, the committee on economic and monetary affairs agrees that we should focus on targeted measures aimed at removing specific barriers to cross-border mortgages. any measures should only be taken after impact assessments have shown that the benefits outweigh the costs. non-legislative means are to be preferred wherever possible. our first priority should be to bring about a better european funding market. there are a number of obstacles preventing this. i would therefore like to see a database covering the various mortgage markets and mortgage securities, so that investors can better evaluate and price mortgage pools. we suggest a range of standardised packages of european mortgages for trading on the capital markets. mortgage brokers could play an important role in helping borrowers access mortgage credit from domestic and non-domestic lenders. i am pleased that the commission has undertaken to assess any problems related to those credit intermediaries. on the issue of the annual percentage rate of charge, we need an eu standard. the majority in the committee wanted an eu standard comprising all the charges levied by the lender, but with information as far as possible regarding any other costs. the report considers that restrictions on early repayment charges and interest rates are likely to restrict the development of new products, especially those for higher risk borrowers, as well as the development of the funding market. among other issues we raised are removing obstacles to the transfer of loans across borders and assessing the potential of the euro-mortgage. the law applicable to mortgage credit contracts should be addressed, with the revision of the 1980 rome convention. on credit databases, we want to see a consistent format and non-discriminatory cross-border access to both positive and negative credit data, always subject to privacy protection. in the area of forced sales, we support the idea of a scoreboard, comparing the length and costs of judicial processes in the various member states. various professional bodies should agree on common property valuation standards. on land registers, the report favours improving access to standardised information, as well as supporting further work on the european land information service. tax barriers remain a problem and need to be looked at, even if their resolution is dependent upon the member states under subsidiarity. the european central bank and the commission have the important job of monitoring the potential risks of the massive and increasing levels of mortgage debt and their potential impact on capital markets. i much appreciate the support and input received from my colleagues on all sides of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the commission seems to be set on much the same line as we propose. we look forward to the white paper next year and we hope we will be able to continue the excellent cooperation we have enjoyed so far on this important subject.
in writing. this report approves the commission's proposal to make two changes to the rural development financing mechanism in line with the december 2005 european council’s agreement on rural development funding for the period 2007-2013. conservative meps condemned the december 2005 agreement and therefore cannot support proposals originating from it. the british government squandered a golden opportunity to achieve a fairer distribution of rural development funds and allowed certain member states, even at that early stage, to allocate for themselves substantial sums of the already reduced amounts. ultimately, the uk ended up with only 3.5% of the funds available for the eu-15. the proposal in question allows portugal to exempt itself from the obligation to cofinance the amounts it secured for itself at the december council. conservatives believe that this sets a dangerous precedent.
in writing. the marine environment requires protection and conservation. the conclusion of good environmental status should be welcomed. however, in supporting amendment 91 we clarify that oil and gas exploitation in the marine environment can continue, subject to international rules. the contribution of the oil and gas industry to the scottish economy is important to recognise.
mr president, mercury is a highly toxic and dangerous substance. eliminating it from all uses, especially household uses, where there are adequate substitutes is an eminently sensible proposal, supported by all 25 governments in the council. yet the ppe-de group, egged on by the british conservatives, has voted to allow extra exemptions for precisely those products which are likely to find their way into household use, which is the most dangerous place for them. that does not square with what david cameron is saying back home in britain, or even with what the conservative party website says about its commitment to phase out dangerous chemical substances. i hope at least that the british conservatives, after weeks of campaigning against so-called ‘diktats’ from brussels, will now refrain from using such language. they will have seen today that the outcome of european legislation is being determined by a democratic vote in this parliament, rather than by european commission ‘diktats’. even if they express no regret over what they have done today, i hope they will at least desist from using that sort of vocabulary when campaigning on such issues.
in writing. i voted for this report to limit the use of mercury – a highly dangerous substance. i was astounded to see the british tory meps vote against a ban. this runs counter to their leader david cameron’s explicit commitment to banning dangerous chemicals. it is sad to see that the tories hold the health and safety of future generations so lightly. once again they say one thing at home and another thing abroad.
in writing. a lancet report published in the uk last week highlighted the dangers of toxic chemicals for the health of the unborn and young children. mercury is extremely toxic, bioaccumulative and persistent in the environment. there are no safe exposure levels and yet mercury is getting into our waste stream from discarded household products containing mercury. that is why labour meps agree with the 25 eu governments and the commission that mercury should be phased out in all but essential uses. we are opposed to a permanent exemption for mercury barometers because substitutes are available, but we proposed and will support a longer, two-year phase-out period for mercury barometers to allow industry to adapt to the new law.
mr president, this vote shows that reform of the common agricultural policy still faces stiff resistance from vested interests every step of the way. despite such resistance, step by step reform has already led to a relative decline in cap spending and a switch from spending on price support to support for more environmental improvements, income support and rural development. export subsidies will also be phased out. but further steps down this path remain necessary. they will be achieved, despite the resistance displayed by the votes today.
in writing. the cap requires continued reform. it is disappointing that the commission's proposal to introduce voluntary modulation of the cap has been rejected. the introduction of voluntary modulation of the cap would have provided for a sustainable approach to rural development. i hope that all those members who have a direct interest in farming declared their interest and did not vote on this measure.
in writing. the conservative delegation voted for the rejection of the modulation proposal presented by lutz goepel to give the commission a chance to come forward with something better. we strongly object to the deal that prime minister blair cobbled together last christmas at the european council which reduced the single farm payments made to english farmers in order to fund rural development schemes. my farmers in the witham and maldon area – around coggeshall, terling, the teys and the tolleshunts – as in other parts of england, want a fair deal from the common agricultural policy. voluntary modulation of 20%, top-slicing the single farm payment, will mean that our farmers are likely to be 20% worse off than even their welsh, scottish and ulster counterparts, let alone the french. my farmers have no confidence in the british government, through either defra or the rural payments agency, being able to make payments on time, accurately or indeed to be able to make the payment at all to many individual farmers. furthermore, there is now a danger that the uk will be fined by the european commission for its ineptitude, and farmers will pick up the tab. our rural community needs a fair deal and they are being completely short-changed by an incompetent government.
in writing. the conservative party policy in relation to the euro is clear and unequivocal: we are firmly committed to keeping the pound. we have no desire to be part of the single currency, but neither do we have any wish for the project to fail, as we believe that there is a uk national interest in there being a strong european economy with a stable currency that provides a good trading environment for british business and industry. in line with our long-standing position on matters relating to the euro and euro area, i and my british conservative colleagues have abstained on this report.
in writing. as an oceanographer, i am delighted to support this report on the strategy on the marine environment. the eu has for too long collapsed rural policy into agricultural policy. finally this has begun to change in a positive way to recognise that farming is only a minority, if important part, of the rural economy. we face an identical problem with respect to maritime policy. it has been seen as fisheries policy writ large, but now, with the commission paper on maritime policy currently out for consultation – i recently participated in a conference on the subject in weymouth organised by the south west regional development agency – this report and the lienemann report voted earlier today, it looks as if we are going to finally move away from a one-dimensional maritime policy to a policy that embraces our seas, oceans and coasts as vital for food and the environment, transport and tourism.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, i would first like to thank the members for their comments. they confirm that this is a more political programme, as mrs grossetête has also acknowledged, and i thank her for her general support for the programme. our aim is to work with the other institutions, particularly parliament, to better target priorities each year and to place them in the context of europe's overall effort. as regards the specific questions, since i cannot answer all of them, i will at least answer those which seem to me particularly important, starting with the principle of annuality. this principle is not in question, quite the contrary. we are setting out very clearly the 21 strategic initiatives for the coming year, committing ourselves not to withdraw any of them in the process. but at the same time we are giving parliament and the other institutions the opportunity to see, over the next six months, what we are planning and to conclude before then whether the work is ready. this is a good example of combining flexibility and security. you have increased flexibility with the certainty of what can be done in the coming year, while allowing, through this increased flexibility, a better programming effort on the part of parliament. this is the goal we are pursuing and i also hope that it meets the needs of your work. mr schulz acknowledged that he had seen some of the elements in other programmes. that's right, there's a continuity! we want to maintain a line of consistency. the work done by the commission and the european institutions cannot consist in rediscovering the wheel every year! a great thinker in my country once said, "when you tell the truth, you can't be original every day". that's a little true. we are committed to these goals. it takes persistence and determination. much of this is not simply a matter for the commission and parliament. they also depend on the member states. that is why we must maintain this coherence in the long term, in favour of a europe that is more competitive but also more united, a europe that is more determined on a global level. and in this respect, indeed, there is a continuity, which is reflected in the formula 'unity in diversity' which has been mentioned by mr jonckheer and others. as i have already said to mr orban and as a concrete reply to mr schulz, my idea is that the commissioner appointed by romania is not only responsible for multilingualism but also for interculturalism in europe. this is in fact complementary to what is being done under my leadership by the bureau of european policy advisers (bepa) which organises meetings in this field; i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. so as soon as his candidacy has been confirmed by the institutions, mr orban will be in charge of multilingualism, which is a very important subject for europe. it's not a second-class wallet at all. when we realise the number of languages in use in our union, and if we really want to respect diversity in the union, a policy of multilingualism but also of interculturalism becomes increasingly necessary. we must establish a dialogue between the different cultures and work towards the integration of the different communities, without of course neglecting the minority communities within our union. so i think this is a very important portfolio that will be entrusted to mr orban as soon as his candidacy has been approved. as regards the question put by mrs silvana koch-mehrin, i would like to stress the point on which we have the greatest agreement, namely the fight for less bureaucracy and more efficiency. and this is not just a declaration of intent. at today's meeting of the college, the commission approved a reduction in the statistical obligations of small and mediumsized enterprises in europe: instead of asking all of them to make the presentation for statistical purposes, we will ask for information by sampling and stick to only part of it. i believe that this is a practical measure to reduce the administrative burden on our businesses, especially small and mediumsized businesses. we will of course study the proposals on combating climate change put forward by the green group, represented by mr jonckheer. rest assured that we are keen to maintain our world-leading position on this issue and have made commitments to the european commission to strengthen the emissions trading scheme, to give greater importance to renewable energy and to work towards achieving better levels of energy efficiency. there may be some differences in terms of concrete objectives, but i believe that there is a convergence of views between our institutions on the meaning and ambition of the action to be taken. as regards the issue of climate change, i would like to say that we consider it to be closely linked to the energy issue. in this area, we are indeed seeing the emergence of a cluster which can enable us to achieve a synthesis between the concerns of those who, like you, have greater ambition in terms of the environment, and those who, like others, have greater ambition in terms of competitiveness. the two are not mutually exclusive. this is an extraordinary economic opportunity for the europe of tomorrow. in the same way, i think there is an opportunity to be seized in terms of innovation. i would like to thank mr brian crowley in particular for his support of the european institute of technology. i think that this is where europe's future is being built. the fight against climate change, the fight for a coherent energy policy, the fight for a more competitive europe, but also a strong europe with a sustainable and solidarity-based economy, which of course requires greater investment in our innovation, are increasingly needed. in conclusion, i shall try to answer the question put to me by mrs silvana koch-mehrin, who asked what the common thread is, what constitutes coherence? at first sight, it is difficult to see the coherence between such diverse fields. but this common point lies in the objective of preparing the union for the age of globalisation, to face this globalisation, not to suffer it, not to see it as the end of europe, but on the contrary to have the courage to assert our values and interests by contributing, with our doctrine, with our democratic values, our values of freedom, our values of solidarity too, to shaping this globalisation, to shaping the future in the 21st century. this is the common thread that connects the fields of innovation, energy, climate change, justice, home affairs, but also innovation and education. here's the schedule.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to point out to the commissioner that we are going to have to carry on talking about old and new member states for as long as we have the transition periods to which my colleague, mrs oomen-ruijten referred. however, i was also very pleased to hear mr barroso talking about dealing with unscrupulous employers. i assume by that he means those employers who keep people in conditions approaching slavery, pay them extremely badly and exploit them, with this applying, of course, not just to those who employ not only third-country nationals but also eu nationals, as we have been hearing about recently. i assume that measure will be part of driving up job quality, as we have talked about so often, by getting rid of low-quality, poorly paid employment, and i look forward to seeing that mentioned more explicitly in the commission’s programme. as others have said, we are very pleased to see as well this continued mention of sustainable development and linkage with climate change, which is something we have long argued for, and i agree entirely with what mrs ek was saying about environmentally-driven growth. we therefore look forward to the action plan on sustainable production and consumption next year, which we assume will be a move forward in terms of eco-efficiency and in spelling out how we are to decouple environmental damage from growth. we also look forward to the stocktaking social reality document, which is extremely important as regards benchmarks of wellbeing. we assume this will also include environmental factors, given that we know that the poorest people often live in the poorest and most degraded environments and housing, with the effects that has on mental health. we would rather have seen a framework directive on social services, but will nevertheless be looking to see whether the proposals brought forward also take into account the effects of existing european legislation on the future of services. finally, we would have welcomed something that picked up on the sustainable development strategy as regards the issue of targeted training for professions in helping to meet climate change requirements. if you cannot fit solar panels and cannot repair your energy systems, you are not going to meet your climate change targets. (applause)
mr president, the commission will review the operation of the single market, and about time too. i hope that the commission will read the report by the conseil d’analyse economique, a high-powered economic committee of the french government chaired by prime minister dominique de villepin. that report says ‘economic integration has stagnated and no longer promotes growth’. it says that the euro’s creation has not produced the knock-on benefits expected. then it gets serious: ‘we are convinced that the situation we describe is perilous’. it says that poor economic performance is driving away investment and damaging employment and social provision and it speaks of ‘a manifest exhaustion with community procedures threatening to trigger a vicious circle which will unravel the acquis communautaire’. i hope the commission will note the estimate by its own vice-president, günter verheugen, who says that the costs of excessive regulation in the single market amount to eur 600 billion a year. that is nearly four times the commission’s own estimate of the trade benefits from the single market. in a recent uk study of more than 1000 ceos commissioned by the think-tank open europe, a clear majority felt that the eu was doing more harm than good and that britain should renegotiate its relationship with europe to something more like a free- trade deal. the position is very clear: europe’s share of world trade is shrinking fast. membership is costing far more than any benefits it offers. eu regulation and the eu social model are doing huge economic damage. the eu is making us poorer and less democratic and less free – and we have had enough of it!
from the employment and social standpoint, i find this work programme very disappointing. yet again we are promised little more than a raft of green and white papers and communications, recycling the same old material. we are about to get a green paper on labour law that lists questions that were put and answered ten years ago by allan larsson while he was the commission’s director-general for employment. the communication hails flexicurity as a means of realising opportunities offered by european labour markets. in reality, it has been shown to have no positive meaning for working people. for millions flexicurity is a weasel word, a codeword for exploitation, insecurity and uncertainty. we need an eu legislative framework to tackle unfair and exploitative employment and quasi-employment relationships. all workers in all regions deserve access to decent work to give them and their families the chance of a decent life. in the meantime, social europe is at a standstill. the last piece of eu legislation in the social field was adopted over three years ago. the commission’s lack of ambition reflects its own imbalanced policy perspective. better regulation means no legislation in the social field but also reflects the poor prospects for any proposal in the employment council. employment ministers need to begin to play a positive role and they could start by doing something positive on working time and temporary agency work. lisbon promised more and better quality jobs. what has been done to deliver that promise for working people? precious little. so my message to both the commission and council is this: let us stop the rhetoric and start to deliver. (applause)
demographic change is one of the greatest challenges for european competitiveness. we want to make it a priority to bring people who are excluded into the job market, elderly and disabled people included. that is why the 2000 employment directive should be fully implemented. but we must do more, especially as 2007 is the european year of equal opportunities. however, i welcome the commission’s commitment to cutting down on unnecessary legislation. that is why i ask the commission to reaffirm its intention to withdraw the temporary agency workers directive and also to consider separating the issue of calculating what is considered as working time where someone is on call, from that of the individual opt-out from the working time directive. if we are really to achieve growth and competitiveness, legislation should only be brought forward in the employment field if it cannot successfully be enacted at local or national level. in the field of health and safety it should brought forward only if scientific and medical evidence prove the need for it, as is the case for an amendment to the 2000 biological agents directive to protect workers from needlestick injuries and contracting hepatitis or hiv. can the commission tell us when it will bring forward that amendment to the biological agents directive, in line with the own-initiative report that was adopted by the european parliament?
madam president, on behalf of the committee on the environment, i thank our commissioners for the work we do with them – often constructive, often with great thought, often with what i hope is constructive criticism. i say to the commissioners that we look forward to what they are going to be doing in the coming year, although perhaps i could start with what they are not going to be doing, because it would be helpful to hear from them again a new list of steps that they are not going to take. we have had the first tranche of that as part of the lisbon agenda. we would like to know a little more about where the commission is pulling back so that it can concentrate on the things that really matter. linked to that, in terms of better legislation, we look forward to the development of environmental and health impact assessments in such a way that they are seen to, and really do, contain an element of independent assessment. i would suggest that we need a panel of independent experts, not a new building or agency, but people on whom we can call to help to ensure that the impact assessments are effective. i believe we would also want to ensure that the agencies for which we are responsible are efficient and effective. there are some key ones in health, medicines and food safety which need sustaining. they are mostly new ones and doing good work. i would like to see prioritisation between agencies as well as good support for those that we cover. we would want to see proper enforcement as well. so perhaps the package is to do less than we have done in the past, but to do what we do even better. in our committee we look to the work in the health sector. we have seen that prosperity is not an alternative to wellbeing. healthy people and a healthy environment are prerequisites for healthy economic growth, competitiveness and jobs. we want to see more work to improve health promotion, collaboration between health services, not only on patient mobility, patient safety and the new areas of mental health, but also on continuing areas such as flu preparedness. the environment goes hand-in-hand with growth and jobs. eco-innovation is a major component in winning the fight against global warming. i certainly call on the commission to lead initiatives in the post-kyoto process outside the european union, developing the ‘green diplomacy’ concept. having recently been in gaza and seen the devastation to people in the hospitals there, we urge that, with the new opportunities coming from the appointment of the new prime minister of the palestinian authority, the european union should work closely with that authority and the israelis to stop what is happening in gaza and to promote real reconciliation and peace.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, looking at the commission’s programme for 2007, i am struck not just by the new areas in which the eu seeks to strip more power away from my country and from the ex-eu slaves and eunuchs who run it, but by the brief mention of the term ‘constitutional treaty’. my submission is that the hidden agenda and programme for 2007 will include a resurrection of the constitution, that slain vampire, after a small blood transfusion. the nationals of those countries who rejected it will be told to vote again because they did not understand that it was compulsory. the commission hopes to obscure the principal issue, namely its quest for legal personality or eu sovereignty. yet every year the eu takes more of the powers of nationhood. i object to the concept that british nationals are assumed to be in favour of all this power theft, without being allowed to vote on the subject. i also note a proposal from the council to improve cooperation between eu police and security forces. this contains a proposal about sharing information at european level, including sharing with europol. this has been questioned and resisted before. it is an infringement of the rights of british nationals, some of whom already have an eu criminal record for plane-spotting. my countrymen want an honest answer to the question of what the eu thinks it is and what happened to the concept of trade.
madam president, i wish to begin by addressing the question of the internal market. i think i am out of sequence, because the internal market was discussed earlier by some of my colleagues. however, i want to welcome the review of the single market strategy on behalf of the members of our group. i am pleased we are now focusing on the name ‘single market’ because that describes much more accurately what we are working for. we will therefore give the commission a lot of support for that and indeed for other initiatives to make the single market work better. that leads me onto a broader concern i have on the work programme and the priorities as presented to us. it is a big improvement on the one we had last year, of which i was very critical and in which there was a very long list of unprioritised proposals. we still have a long list of proposals. i think there are 21 initiatives and, as my colleague, mrs grosch, said, the difference between strategic initiatives and priorities is not entirely clear. i would again make the point that a list of priorities longer than five is not a list of priorities at all. however, i want to make the fundamental point that the issue of delivery, which i am pleased to say is included, is picturesquely described as ‘delivery a daily task’ as if it were a routine issue – we still have daily milk deliveries in england and i am pleased to say in pint bottles. however, it is not a routine issue but a fundamental one! i really want to know what resources the commission is putting behind the implementation of its policies. on the single market, we know that mr mccreevy estimates that 90% of the legislation is already in place. delivery is fundamental. where does it say what resources the commission is putting behind its initiatives? where does it say what resources the commission is putting behind a transposition plan for the services directive we will approve tomorrow, which is a fundamental piece of work? if the commission does not put the resources behind it, it will not be delivered. i should like to ask commissioner wallström, whom i understand is responsible for communication, for the next package to be grouped together. i do not want to see the single market policy scattered throughout this document: i want to see the priority for the single market set out with the actions next to it, the delivery resources next to that and the commission’s simplification plan next to that, and i want all this to be lumped together with the percentage of resources the commission is putting behind it. that would be a logical and clear document and clear communication. finally, on the services directive, i am delighted mr schulz is here, because i note from a press release he issued today that the services directive is an enormous success for the socialist group. well, colleagues on this side of the house, it is an enormous success for this parliament and all of us working together. i hope people will have the humility to accept that. however, i notice that he has finally joined our liberal club because the release states that he supports the flexibility necessary to enterprise and the promise of new job creation. welcome to the market liberalisation club, mr schulz!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, 2007 will be the key year for us all to find our own way to escape from the constitutional crisis and i am very pleased to hear from president barroso that he plans for the commission to play a central part in that exercise. the commission strategy for change across the policy spectrum must be framed inside a constitutional context. policy reform will be given practical effect by its connection with the issues of the eu’s competences, the instruments, the powers and procedures. as far as external affairs are concerned, for example, the union needs its legal personality. public opinion supports the eu as a global actor. we need success on completing the doha round for trade and development. we should be stalwart in persevering with enlargement, despite the problems that we experience at present, some of which at least are clearly foreseen and foreseeable. the commission and parliament must be steadfast to support the deployment of so many european forces, not least at present in south lebanon, as this exercise surely provides the greatest test for the development of our common foreign security and defence policy.
mr president, as coordinator for the ppe-de group i would like to stress the following points. we realise the importance of the external competitiveness aspects of the lisbon agenda and the coordination of internal and external actions, and we reiterate our commitment to the multilateral approach in trade policy and support for the wto as the principal forum for the management of globalisation. we therefore deplore the suspension of the wto negotiations and strongly urge the commission to come forward and fight for a settlement on the doha round in 2007. we welcome the eu communication on global europe competing in the world. we stress, however, that bilateral regional agreements should remain supplementary, as i said, to the multilateral trade system. but here i have real concerns, and i would like to question the commission on this particular point. why have we not made progress with the usa on regulatory issues between the eu and the us by completing the transatlantic single market? we must make a commitment to that over the next decade. we cannot have a free-trade agreement with the us; that would undermine multilateralism. but we can have an agreement on regulatory issues which are outside article 34. finally, something that is particularly close to my own heart: there is grave concern over the growing feeling of protectionism and trying to set goals that are outside the lisbon agenda. member states are increasingly using protectionist methods. if we are going to have a settlement, we have to move away from that. finally, i have serious concerns about epas and economic partnership negotiations, and i support the commission in its proposal. we must go ahead with it and push it forward. it is a real chance, probably the last chance we are going to have, to do something to help those poor countries. if we can get an agreement on that, it will be a great thing. i look forward to that in the coming year.
i am glad the commissioner is worried, as indeed he should be, because the car industry has comprehensively broken its agreements with the european union to meet these reductions. this was largely for profit reasons, because there is money to be made in four-wheel drive suvs or ‘chelsea tractors’ as they are known in the uk. three weeks ago, from the very same seat, commissioner dimas said legislation would, of course, be necessary. can the commissioner indicate what the earliest date will be at which legislation can be introduced, once the commission has carried out its review to be published in december?
do you accept, commissioner, that what we are facing in our single market is a double distortion, a distortion between beer and wine, which is grossly unfair, and the distortion arises that because of grossly different rates of taxation and excise duty between member states. this is the cause, in my country, of hundreds of white vans going to calais, filling up and coming back to britain to sell on the black market, to the great detriment of the british brewing industry, pubs and retailers. i am sure it is the same elsewhere.
one of the benefits of decentralisation was supposed to be that the commission would be able to concentrate better on the bigger cases. may i ask, then, why the commission, as the world's biggest competition authority, has never effectively tackled one of the world's biggest restrictive practices, namely the de beers diamond company, as regards the so-called supplier of choice system, which is highly restrictive to competition?
commissioner, thank you for that comprehensive answer. i know of your personal commitment to this issue, but i met with zimbabwean and south african aids activists at the weekend and the question they asked me, which was difficult to answer, was whether, in your opinion, in relation to the take-up of anti-retrovirals as well as all the other measures you announced, the eu is making a significant impact on the aids pandemic. is it actually making a difference? my worry is that in zimbabwe we are clearly losing the fight because of the special circumstances there. but they were also telling me that the situation is still extremely serious in south africa.
thank you commissioner. you have answered part of my supplementary question already. however, does the commission not feel that rather than pay illegal immigrants to return home, thus encouraging higher levels of migration, it would be better to alleviate the conditions that forced them to leave their homeland in the first place? that, of course, would require much higher levels of development spending than we currently enjoy in the eu.
can the president-in-office confirm that these are subject matters which, for the united kingdom and ireland, are covered by the special protocol annexed to the treaty, which allows those two countries to opt in or opt out of any measures adopted? having regard to that fact, president-in-office, do you agree that it is quite unreasonable for some people in those countries to object to switching to qualified majority voting on the grounds that national sovereignty would be lost, because, in any case, it is an area that those countries can opt in and opt out of, and it would be quite unreasonable to block such a decision on those grounds?
president-in- office, only last week i was informed by kamal nath that he found the report i had prepared on behalf of the committee on international trade to be very helpful and that he was able to quote it in the negotiations. the notion of a free trade agreement with india is clearly a key element of commissioner mandelson’s external review strategy global europe, which sets out a clear strategy for building bilateral trade arrangements with emerging economies, notably in asia. what is the council’s view of this new strategy and does it believe such bilateral arrangements are the best mechanism for advancing europe’s growth and competitiveness, and how does this stand in relation to our commitment to the multilateral doha round?
deputising for the author. – president-in- office, i am reassured by some of what you say, but great concern remains about so much that may or may not have actually taken place, and we need to establish the facts. according to an article in the italian newspaper l'unità, on 7 december 2005 condoleezza rice had frank decisions with eu ministers at a dinner at which the issue of extraordinary renditions was discussed. i should like to know whether this dinner took place. if so, who was there? were extraordinary renditions discussed? if so, what was said?
mr president, what is going in gaza amounts to nothing less than sheer bloody slaughter. just how many palestinians have to die before the council recognises that israel might be in breach of the human rights requirements of the association agreement?
i thank the president-in-office for her answer. it was perhaps more than i expected and i am very grateful. iceland, as she and everyone here knows, is not a member of the european union; it is, however, a member of efta and a member of schengen – although that is obviously not related to this. however, it really proves the point that iceland has close connections with the eu. i would urge the president-in-office, in the time that she and her successors have left, to do everything they can to urge iceland to not continue with the unnecessary and, i would say, cruel slaughter of one of the world’s great mammals for unproven reasons. i applaud what the president-in-office has said about not allowing whaling in community waters and banning the import of whale products. keep up the good work and push the icelandic authorities even further.
author. – mr president, i am not the author of the question but the chairperson of the committee that is taking the question forward on behalf of members. i want to stress that the members of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection took a unanimous decision to table this oral question to ask the commissioner for an update regarding the ongoing infringement proceedings against nine member states concerning restrictions imposed on sports betting markets. the committee would like the commission to tell us in particular what progress has been made on the infringement proceedings launched on 4 april 2006 and what future steps are planned in this area. is the commissioner considering a legal framework for online gambling? as we are on the brink of agreeing the services directive, we are well aware of the need for member states to fulfil their treaty obligations under article 49 as regards the free movement of services. the commissioner will be aware of the committee’s decision to remove gambling services from the services directive, not least because of the complexity of the gambling market. however, the freedom to provide services has in the case of the gambling sector clashed with national law in a number of member states, which have introduced restrictive laws limiting the cross-border supply of online betting and gambling services. we support the commission in ensuring that these laws are compatible with article 49, while respecting the rights of member states to protect the public interest, as long as the rules are necessary, proportionate and non-discriminatory, i.e. not discriminating against other eu operators. it is hypocritical, on public interest grounds, for a member state to prevent other eu online operators from entering a national market, while at the same time allowing its own national online market to grow considerably while not applying those public interest rules. that is the issue we hope the commission will address. i would like to take the debate in a different direction. i believe that we need an eu response to the challenge of the global online gambling market. this is a market set to grow to a value of eur 20 billion by 2010. in 2003, in the eu-25 commercial gaming industries, lotteries and casinos and betting services were worth some eur 51.5 billion and there are some 2300 worldwide online casino sites. in the uk, for example, during the world cup football matches, 30% of those making online bets on uk services were women. it crosses all classes and all generations. the rapid growth of online services and remote gambling and betting services has de facto already erased national boundaries. however, let us not follow the us model of pulling up the drawbridge by enacting the 2006 bush legislation – the unlawful internet gambling enforcement act, making it a crime for banks to process or transfer funds via online betting sites. this is simply protectionism hiding behind a smokescreen of the so-called protection of consumers against gambling excesses. in reality, it is a law to stop foreign operators from competing or undermining the us casino and gambling market, while the states of nevada and las vegas continue to develop their own online and remote gambling services. i believe it would be good if the commissioner, on behalf of the 25 member states, would engage in the campaign to get an international agreement on standards and rules in regulating egambling. this is one way to minimise the differences between not only the international community but also the eu member states, to ensure in the end that all states opt in to high standards both for operators and consumers. the objective would be to ensure that we develop standards to protect vulnerable consumers, in particular young adults and minors, to engender a sense of social responsibility from good operators and investors and to ensure that gambling is not used as a source of crime or financing criminal activities. the internet genie is out of the bottle: some 3.3 million eu citizens are regular online gamblers. this is a market that will grow. the eu should therefore be part of a wider international campaign for good and high standards. we need greater international cooperation to curb problem gambling and more research into the extent of participation in remote gambling. the study commissioned by the european commission on gambling services in the internal market highlights the need to find common international standards and regulatory requirements that will protect eu citizens while allowing the market to operate. i hope the commissioner will feel encouraged by tonight’s debate to continue with infringement proceedings. however, in reality, it is a thankless task, which takes years to resolve, often not with a satisfactory conclusion, and i believe the best way forward is for the eu now to be a leader, driving good and high common international standards that can help minimise the differences, protect consumers and force the operators to be socially responsible.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, would you allow me to make a point first, before you start the clock. according to the agenda, this debate was scheduled to start at 10.30. that was quite clear and i notice that a number of my colleagues made an effort to be here at 10.30. so i am disturbed to find that i missed most of the speech of my colleague mrs mccarthy, because the debate appears to have started at least ten minutes early. i do not think that is acceptable, if i may say so, and i am sorry that your predecessor in the chair has gone away. if the schedule for the day says a debate starts at 10.30, i submit to you that it should start at 10.30, even if there has to be a short adjournment. perhaps i could now move on and if you will restart the clock, please, i shall make my substantive points. i very much welcome the fact that mr mccreevy is here to address this issue and i am pleased that, under the leadership of mrs mccarthy, we have taken an initiative that i hope will shed some light on this issue. as the commissioner made clear, this is a highly sensitive issue and it involves many aspects of public interest. but nevertheless, from the point of view of the operation of the single market, which is also of overriding interest to us, the situation is, as you suggested, deeply unsatisfactory. clearly we await the results of your investigations but i suggest that, at the very least, it would be appropriate for you to issue some form of guidelines to member states on their attitude to receiving applications from reputable and well-established gambling operators who simply want to be able to operate in other eu countries under the law of those countries, which they are perfectly entitled to do. one of the things you did not mention, but which seems to me to be rather extraordinary in terms of discriminatory practice, is that some member states have tried to restrict access to those markets on the grounds that they do not want to encourage gambling. yet at the same time those member states are promoting participation in their national lotteries with billions of euros across europe. clearly that is entirely inconsistent. i believe it is sensible and good that the european court of justice has struck down some of the restrictions, but i think those guidelines will be important. as mrs mccarthy said, in terms of operation and protecting the public interest respectable operations are extremely important. the big issue that we have to face is online gambling. whether member states want to preserve a monopoly or not, the fact is that consumers are taking advantage of online gambling. i believe it is much better, in the public interest, that we have well-regulated online gambling services than uncontrolled services which come into europe from other countries outside the remit of the european union.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group . – (the speaker spoke irish)i want to thank mr joan i marí for the work he has undertaken. i hope that the adoption of the amendments he has put forward can provide a basis for a meaningful eu language policy. as the rapporteur has said, we need to improve language skills and to maintain the whole range of european languages. colleagues may be aware that dublin will host an important conference on 24 november, entitled ‘the legacy of the european bureau for lesser-used languages and the future of lesser-used languages in the eu’. it is important that ngos such as the european bureau for lesser-used languages receive continued funding and that there is project funding for languages as well, particularly languages that are in danger. i fully support calls for an eu language plan, for project funding for the most endangered languages, for the ebner report to be implemented in full, for the eu ombudsman to have an explicit mandate to act in cases of language-based discrimination, and for a working party to be set up that can work towards giving a legal base to the concept of respect for linguistic diversities. i ask colleagues to support the rapporteur’s amendments.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the gsp scheme was designed to help the poorest and most vulnerable in the world trade their way out of poverty. there is not a fixed list of countries that fit into that category. where the gsp is a success, a country may graduate to a new relationship with the eu. however, not all movement is upward: some countries, through circumstances entirely beyond their control, may now be in a worse position than when the scheme was renewed. pakistan is such a country. despite the backing of this house, pakistan was denied gsp+ status by the council, at a cost of 300 000 jobs and gbp 40 million a year. tragically, less than six months after the gsp scheme came into force, pakistan and much of pakistan-administered kashmir was devastated by an earthquake that the world health organisation claims eclipsed the tsunami in terms of destruction and human suffering. the major impact of the earthquake in the north-east of the region caused large-scale displacement of pakistan’s skilled and unskilled labour force. they have traditionally provided a significant part of the workforce for the whole of pakistani industry, notably in textiles. many were left homeless, without spouses and with children to care for. over one year later, they have been unable to return to paid work because they have been waiting for financial grants to rebuild their homes. as a result industrial wages have increased, driving up the cost of production and dramatically effecting pakistan’s competitiveness. whilst the eu is always very generous in terms of the aid we offer to those countries in need, our pockets are not bottomless. we must revise the gps in order to make sure that we not only help the poor trade their way out of poverty, but also help the hopeless trade their way out of the rubble of disaster.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, in order to be credible and genuinely effective, we have to demonstrate that the gsp+ scheme is working properly. in other words, the eu must act swiftly and decisively when there are infringements of the social or environmental standards in question. this is not merely a theoretical or academic discussion, but a very real discussion about real countries. the case of el salvador has already been raised. in fact, el salvadorian workers have for years seen incredible resistance by their own government, company owners and the right-wing media to try to avoid, or at least delay, the implementation of core labour conventions, and it is very unfortunate that an eu member state, spain, has seemingly supported them in that attempt. however, the fact that the el salvadorian government has recently ratified four key ilo conventions is not the real victory it might seem, because by reforming its civil service laws the government has actually succeeded in removing large numbers of workers from any possible benefits of those ilo conventions. that is totally unacceptable, and i therefore formally ask the commission to initiate without delay an investigation into the situation in el salvador and to consider a temporary withdrawal of gsp preferences. i would be happy to furnish the commissioner with further details from the trade union groups and civil societies in el salvador. colombia is another case of blatant violation of workers’ rights, despite the window dressing of official enshrinement of ilo conventions. the monthly and often weekly reports of trade union members ‘disappearing’ and being killed tell the true story of the blood toll paid by those who dare to assume that ilo rights officially adopted in theory will actually be respected in practice. we cannot wait until december 2008 before we review these cases. i ask the commission to review them now.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, commissioner, this is an important day for european citizens. i emphasise that because sometimes when we talk about concepts like the internal market we forget that we are engaging people at the heart of what goes on and in our political work here. this directive is about improving the standard of living of all citizens in the european union and encouraging growth and dynamism in the economy. it is as fundamental as that. what is so important about this directive – and sometimes we perhaps forget this during our big debates – is that it has actually been the result of painstaking work by the commission, to whom i would like to pay tribute. it addresses the deep frustrations that businesses, particularly small enterprises, have faced in exercising their rights under the single market. that is what this directive is all about. it is extremely detailed in its provisions. it has directed at the member states no less than 40 specific measures to take down barriers and 65 provisions to improve their procedures. now it is up to the member states. it is they that are going to have to deliver and we are going to be keeping an eye on them to make sure they do deliver. i particularly want to single out the fact that for the first time we have a specific requirement on member states to promote the single market in relation to their businesses, to encourage businesses to take advantage of the single market in the services sector and go out and trade crossborder. the single market is a shared project of all of us. it is not decided here, it is actually decided out there in the member states. we can do our best and this directive is a major step forward in achieving that. a notable thing about this directive is that it has been good politics. why do i say that? because it has been the product of a lot of constructive and detailed argument: long debates and votes in committee, because different sides want to reinforce their position, negotiation and compromise. it has been good politics, and at the heart of it has been mrs gebhardt. she was generous enough to pay tribute to me and i want to say to her that it has been a pleasure to work with her. it has been a challenge, sometimes, because she has been a very determined leader in pushing this forward, but i think that what we have done together will be good for european citizens. however, it is not just we who worked on this, but all the members of our committee, and others as well. i particularly want to thank my own team on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, many of whom will be speaking shortly, but we also worked very closely with our liberal colleagues, particularly in the crucial vote that the presidency was kind enough to mention earlier on. they will speak in more detail now. i want to conclude with my thanks to the federation of small businesses in the united kingdom and say two things to the house today about the importance of this directive. the first one is that small and medium enterprises represent nearly 90% of the services sector. they are crucial to this proposal. secondly, if every small business in europe created one more job, we would have dealt with the problem of unemployment in the european union. (applause)
mr president, today, as chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i am immensely proud of the work and commitment of both our rapporteur and the members of the committee in enabling europe to finally give the go-ahead to open up the market in services. it was the meps and parliament who found the compromise to save the services law from national deadlock and paralysis in council. in the british press, surprisingly, parliament has been praised for coalescing as ‘a serious and effective institution’. the article goes on to say that the key to the services law’s success has been forged here in strasbourg. i agree with the journalist who says that it is time to pay more attention to the european parliament. i want to thank the council and the commission for paying attention to parliament’s right of regulatory scrutiny in the new procedures and accepting our three amendments. this has been the single most controversial but also the most important piece of legislation in the eu. despite our ideological and national differences, we meps have managed to find a way to open up the market, to boost jobs and growth and give our citizens the trust and confidence to use and access those services across europe. the law has been controversial in cutting red tape and bureaucracy for business, but we need to ensure high quality standards and choice for consumers, while safeguarding employees’ conditions and health and safety. parliament listened to people’s concerns and fears, so that the freedom to provide services is not the freedom to undermine consumer or employee rights. each member state must now ensure free access to its territory and it must be equally clear that the right to maintain national rules, to protect public policy, public health, security or the environment, must not mean that legitimate protection turns into negative protectionism. it must be justifiable and proportionate and must not discriminate against other operators. let us look to the future. the litmus test will be whether we can deliver and open up the market for businesses and give the benefits to our consumers. we cannot shout about the benefits if we do not deliver. our work is not yet done. we must continue to work together as three institutions to make good on our commitment to deliver. certainly i, as chair of the internal market committee, stand ready to make good on our commitment to assist the commission and the council in making sure we respect the rights of consumers and employees and deliver for business across europe.
mr president, i have been told by some people that this is one directive that ukip can vote for. it is about free markets. it is about helping small companies trade across national boundaries. it is going to be good for business. well, we have been here before, haven’t we? because we joined a common market that led to a single market, and what has the result of all that been? well, it has been regulation, cost and missed opportunities overseas. just last month, there was a poll of a thousand british businesses. sixty per cent of them said that they want the uk to renegotiate our relationship with the european union to a simple free trade agreement and no more than that. but this was not just a cry from a few poujadists. i will quote michael spencer, the chief executive of icap and recently voted the most powerful man in the city of london, who said that people in business are fed up with the volume of costly regulation the eu is producing. in the city, people are becoming more and more sceptical about the value we are getting from it all. it is clear that british business now recognises that the cost of directive upon directive upon directive produced by institutions like this is now having a negative effect. the single market is not fit for the 21st century global economy and i believe that it will be british business that leads us out of it.
mr president, i recognise that this compromise is something of an improvement on the commission’s original proposal. i also recognise that it is necessary and desirable to remove the remaining barriers to the cross-border provision of commercial services. however, i believe that we should, in the process, provide legal certainty – and i mean ‘certainty’ – to providers of essential public services and, more importantly, provide reassurances to the many citizens who depend strongly upon locally-provided social services. verbal assurances given in good faith, i fully accept, are not what will be used by judges in the event of court challenges in the future. it is the text of a directive that will be important. that is why i have signed a number of amendments, such as amendment 31, which make it absolutely clear that it would be member states who define services of general interest in their territory. i would ask colleagues to accept that this is a reasonable amendment and should be adopted, amongst others.
mr president, the abandonment of the country of origin principle and the reduction in the services covered, particularly the omission of social services and non-economic services, makes this directive a more palatable proposition than when it was last debated. however, i retain some concerns, not least the rush to timetable harmonisation of national legislation on the provision of services, with its inevitable avalanche of regulation and the fear that insecure jobs will result from foreign service providers paying low minimum wages, thus creating worse conditions in host nations, particularly if they are allowed to have temporary status and then escape national host controls. on one specific point, i welcome the fact that gambling activities will be outside the ambit of this directive. their inclusion would have fed the growth of that destructive industry and added to the misery and social instability which it so often spawns.
in writing. i will be supporting this report with a degree of reluctance. it seems to me that the endless addition of further languages to the cocktail of the eu's official languages is not necessarily of benefit to the efficient working of the institutions. i agree that it must be possible for meps to speak and listen in their own languages, but that is not necessarily true for commission or council officials. we now have the anomalous situation whereby gaelic will be available for those from scotland, spanish for those from gibraltar, but not welsh for those from wales. yet, if we are to add new languages, i would plead that amongst these must be the language of one part of my constituency, namely cornish. it is a minority language, but its potential speakers are at least as numerous as those speakers of maltese, an official language of the community.
in writing. i voted for this report and warmly welcome measures to protect and enhance the use of minority languages. however, encouraging multilingualism should not spill over into the excessive (and unnecessary) provision of interpretation and translation into regional languages.
in writing. multilingualism is an important concept. we need to recognise the uniqueness of the european parliament in having simultaneous interpretation in 21 different languages, soon to be 23. however, if we are going to achieve the aim of all eu citizens having competence in their mother tongue plus two other languages, we need support at member state level. in scotland, fewer people are choosing to study foreign languages at school and university. we must reverse that trend. i am pleased that all 10-year olds in scottish schools are learning a foreign language. their efforts should be encouraged and supported. the scottish executive support for gaelic medium education should also be commended.
in writing. more trade union activists are murdered each year in colombia than in the rest of the world combined. in 2005, 70 trade unionists were killed, while 260 received death threats, 56 were arbitrarily detained, seven survived attacks in which explosives or firearms were used, six were kidnapped, and three disappeared. the commission has taken great pride in touting its credentials in matching gsp benefits with rights standards. even the ilo itself has stated that colombia is not in full compliance with ilo core labour standards, which should be necessary to afford gsp+ benefits. ratification of an ilo convention is not the same as implementation, as trade unionists in colombia will readily testify. i therefore welcome this resolution and the statement made by commissioner mandelson during the debate and urge the commission to review colombia's gsp+ status. otherwise a country which murders its trade unionists will continue to appear to be rewarded for doing so.
in writing. i welcome this vote. in far too many countries that get gs preferences there are repeated violations of workers' rights. the commission must through regular and transparent evaluation ensure the implementation of the relevant ilo conventions.
mr president, the deal brokered here, which has achieved such a large cross-party majority, has shown parliament at its best. we have looked at and reviewed commission proposals, made sure they are workable and politically acceptable across our countries, and got a solution which i am sure will bring huge benefits to the eu economy. i am particularly pleased with the last-minute adjustment that was made to this deal on the issue of comitology. it was only a few months ago that we signed an agreement with the council to give parliament enhanced rights of scrutiny over the implementing measures that will flow from this directive. it was unacceptable for the council initially to say that the new deal would not apply to this directive. part of the deal was that it would apply to all new legislative measures which empower the commission subsequently to adopt quasi-legislative implementing measures. that has now been accepted, fortunately, as part of the deal, which means that no implementing measures of a quasi-legislative measure flowing from this legislation can come into force if parliament rejects them.
in writing. i voted, as one of ukip's mep's, for most of the amendments put forward by the eul/ngl and greens/efa, because, within the limits of their understanding of the dangers of supra-nationalism, these amendments nevertheless recognised, and sought to obviate, the harm, which a lack of democratic, national control over the provision of services can wreak upon ordinary people and especially upon the less well off.
in writing. we voted for most of the amendments put forward by the gue/ngl and verts/ale groups because, within the limits of their understanding of the dangers of supra-nationalism, these amendments nevertheless recognised and sought to obviate the harm which a lack of democratic, national control over the provision of services can wreak upon ordinary people and especially upon the less well off.
in writing. i consider that the closed list of services of general interest is too limited and will leave many services in limbo. are they in or out? we have no framework directive on these areas, which are essential in combating poverty and encouraging social cohesion and are of particular importance to women. they are key eu policies. the commission statement this morning cannot bind the future commission which will be holding office when the directive comes into force. the statement has no legal standing before the ecj, which will now be making decisions that parliament chose to duck. we have seen in today's vote that the majority of this house prefers not to make clear statements on labour rights and the protection of public services. how will they explain to their councillors at local and regional level that they are weakening their role in determining the provision of services of general interest and safeguarding the public interest? parliament has achieved positive changes in the original proposal. we could have done more.
in writing. i welcome the gebhardt report and effectively the adoption of the services directive. parliament has played a significant role in allowing freer movement of services across eu borders without undermining social services, trade union rights or environmental laws. parliament will have to monitor the implementation of the directive closely to ensure that the commitments made in the chamber by the commissioner are adhered to.
in writing. i welcome the vote today on the services directive and support the compromise reached.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have lost count of the number of times we have debated the middle east in recent months, but i do know that, since our debate in september, 150 palestinians have been killed in gaza, 70 in the last week alone. the atrocity in beit hanoun, where 18 palestinian civilians were killed, is as indefensible as it is inexplicable. in a spiral of violence where there is armed aggression on both sides, it is often hard to tell what is attack and what is retaliation, but there is no doubt in my mind that david grossman was right when he said last week that the behaviour of israel’s leaders is the conduct of scoundrels. my colleague mr davies was recently in gaza. he reports as others do that gaza has become a prison, with daily reports of extrajudicial executions, of lives disrupted and rendered miserable, disproportionate retaliation – especially since operation summer rains, the qassam rockets have killed 14 civilians over two years. the idf response has killed 126 people in the last month, of whom 63 were not involved in fighting. the time is over. we cannot wait any longer. the international community cannot continue to condemn while waiting to solve the situation. it is a disastrous strategy that leaves the stage to others. we must relaunch the talks and the negotiations. we must waste no time in deploying international and military observers in gaza. we must reinvigorate the commitment of the quartet, and i hope that the us will reinforce its role by assisting in the negotiations as a test-case of a new multilateralism. palestinians must understand that the use of terror will never earn them the recognition they seek, and israelis must understand that they are losing recognition by their incessant flouting of international law and disproportionate military action against civil targets. at yitzhak rabin’s memorial service, mr grossman spoke of a country hypnotised by insanity, rudeness, violence and racism, of a state squandering its goodwill, squandering its own people, especially its young. the same israel has recently used army bulldozers to destroy the graves of british soldiers killed in gaza in 1917 and on 31 october sent f-15 fighter planes to dive at french soldiers serving with the unifil force in lebanon. how many enemies do the israelis want? how long do they believe they can sustain themselves in a state of unresolved conflict? it is time for reasonable people on both sides to come together, perhaps to relaunch the geneva process, and it is time for the european union to do what it can to promote, encourage and support that process. (applause)
mr president, i, like many others present today, was with mrs morgantini in gaza just a couple of weeks ago as this latest round in the current crisis was kicking off. we witnessed the systematic, deliberate and very sophisticated and effective brutalisation of an entire people. gaza is a prison without hope. any moderate palestinians are blocked at every turn as they try to develop a systematic palestinian state that might be successful. they are being blocked by the israelis, and we must place the blame appropriately. the only result of all this can be violence forever more, and we can only treat the symptoms for so long. we saw well-meaning eu officials – we have heard today about the temporary international mechanism – and the eu is indeed doing a number of things to tackle the humanitarian symptoms of this disaster. however, as the commissioner said earlier, the roots of this situation are political and the solution to it must be political. the association agreement must be brought onto the table and sanctions considered, or we will be treating the symptoms of a humanitarian disaster forever more. we are not without weapons and must use everything we have at our disposal.
mr president, last week’s incident in gaza, when an idf shell mistakenly struck beit hanoun causing the death of 19 innocent palestinians, is clearly tragic. the prime minister of israel has apologised and ordered a full investigation. israel, it must be recalled, withdrew from gaza in good faith, but the palestinian authority failed to establish law and order there. instead we have witnessed a degeneration into chaos, internecine warfare and repeated qassam rockets being deliberately fired at innocent israeli civilian targets, such as the woman killed today in sderot, with no apologies from the militants, such as hamas, and the militias effectively using human shields as hizbollah did in lebanon by firing rockets from civilian areas, thus inviting retribution which resulted in the tragedy of beit hanoun. furthermore, these hamas-controlled militias have yet to release kidnapped corporal shalit. yesterday it was announced that a new government of national unity has been formed under independent technocrat mohammad shbair, but its spokesman, fawzi barhoom, denies that hamas will now recognise israel and instead disappointingly stated that the new government will recognise the terms of the ‘prisoners’ document’, a declaration signed this year by palestinians held in israeli jails that implicitly – but not explicitly – recognises israel by calling for a palestinian state on the west bank and gaza. it remains to be seen if this will suffice to dismantle the tim and resume full pa aid, and reassurances on ending terrorist violence will have to be forthcoming too. i will be reluctantly supporting this resolution, but cannot support its call for a multinational un force to police the occupied territories, as the track record of unifil in lebanon remains unproven. i fear that, as we speak, hizbollah is busy rearming itself and looking for a pretext to start yet another war against israel. neither do i call for an immediate cessation by israel of all military action whilst it is still being attacked, as argued by my liberal colleague mr davies.
the european union must do everything in its power and use every instrument at our disposal, including the eu association agreement with israel, to end the violence in gaza. the ongoing violence condemns the palestinians to a slow death and risks setting the whole of the middle east on fire. death and famine are not fertile ground for peace. we need an end to the israeli blockade of gaza, resumption of aid to palestine and support for a government of national unity. i fully support the idea of an international peace conference bringing together all the actors in the middle east, including syria and iran. we need an international force in gaza as a matter of urgency.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, with the conventional weapons convention taking place this week and the biological and toxin weapons convention next week, it is important that the eu’s voice is heard. one main area that concerns me – the commissioner talked about it – is the use of cluster bombs. we have seen the widespread use in recent conflicts: iraq, afghanistan and lebanon, to name but a few. because they are not covered by the 1997 treaty on landmines they are used with impunity, but they still have the same devastating effect, with civilians being killed or maimed for years to come. according to the report ‘fatal footprint’, published this month by handicap international, the israeli defence force delivered at least four million bomblets into lebanon between july and august this year. worldwide, civilians constitute 98% of all recorded cluster bomb casualties. that is one of the reasons i call on the council and the commission to endorse the growing movement for change within the international community and the moves by countries, amongst them belgium and norway, to establish national legislation to ban cluster munitions from their territories and armed forces. i would also like to applaud the red cross for its campaign and call for a ban on the use of cluster bombs, for stockpiles to be destroyed and for clearance programmes to be stepped up. as far as biological and toxic weapons are concerned, we must put more pressure on the united states government, which has refused to countenance a legally binding verification protocol. that is damaging the future of the biological and toxin weapons convention and its credibility. we must also make sure that a permanent secretariat is set up to oversee the convention’s implementation.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, mrs lehtomäki spoke of the european union’s action plan in relation to the review conference of the biological and toxic weapons convention. yet again, the european union falsely assumes the attributes of a political state empowered to determine policy on what are military and defence measures, which are the proper responsibility of sovereign nations. the eu has never had to militarily defend its citizens and let us hope that it never has to, for a variety of reasons. meanwhile, countries like mine, great britain, which are serious military powers, have to discharge that responsibility. cluster bombs do indeed need greater international regulation, especially in regard to the so-called dumb bombs, which have no self-destruct mechanism. britain is also a leading power in research into defence against biological and toxin weapons, and given the current terrorist threat by fundamentalist islam, britain has to maintain its independence and freedom of action in this sphere.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – there are indeed two aspects. there are disasters, natural and man-made, and there is terrorist attack. allow me to speak from the perspective of the uk, where we have experienced both of those within the last year. last december, at an oil-storage depot near london, we had the biggest fire in peacetime europe. in july there was a serious terrorist attack in central london, with three tube trains bombed below ground and a bus above ground. in each case we coped. and it is more than just a question of subsidiarity. we do not want to become dependent – and neither should anybody else. so, i have a question. what do you mean by ‘european consulates’? are these to be imposed upon national systems, over and above them? another question: the european civil defence force referred to in the barnier report – what is it going to do? is it an armed unit? if so, under whose control? based where? could it be deployed without national government request or permission? finally, the constitution included a european policy on the prevention of natural disasters and on civil protection. a further question: is this an attempt to introduce parts of the dead constitution into new legislation?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think it is fair to remind ourselves what would be the position without the existence of these regulatory agencies performing a vital supervisory function at the federal level. if they were not to exist, the commission would need to grow one vast centralised bureaucracy and appoint an army of prefects and inspecteurs de finances to patrol the union. but we should develop a far less spontaneous and more coordinated approach to setting up the agencies. they should become an example of modern european governance: consultative, transparent, autonomous and accountable. parliament itself should exercise a greater degree of self-restraint here and retain a dispassionate scrutiny, so that we are able to exercise our authority for the discharge. i agree with the commission that an interinstitutional agreement is sorely needed, but if it is blocked i would ask the commission to consider a regulation on the basis of article 308.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, i would like to focus on three of the issues raised in my committee’s opinion. first, i would like to stress our view of the importance of further exploitation of offshore wind energy in the baltic and the demonstration of different types of wave energy concepts. secondly, i would like to emphasise the importance of developing further cooperation with russia. we want to cooperate on energy matters that ensure respect for the principles of reciprocity and transparency and we want to encourage russia to ratify the energy charter treaty and the energy charter protocol on transit. we have a concern about the supply of gas from russia to europe. thirdly, we invite northern dimension member countries to be aware of the importance of two eu programmes in our committee’s area of responsibility: galileo and sesar, because we believe that the commitment of northern dimension parties to both of these would reinforce sustainable growth and competitiveness in the region.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – my prepared speech has been brilliantly summarised by mr stubb, the rapporteur, so i should simply like to put two questions. first of all to the minister, mrs lehtomäki, would she accept that, as the debate has already underlined, circumstances have completely changed since finland first devised the northern dimension? in other words, there are now eight eu member states, not four, around the baltic sea, not all of which see the northern dimension in the same light. the reason, for example, that the eu-russia embellishment process has been stalled, as we know, is that poland has a reserve over russia’s refusal to ratify the energy charter. so would she accept that it would be very helpful at the council of ministers, at the preparatory phase of the northern dimension discussions and negotiations, first to have an internal eu discussion involving the eight eu baltic states? secondly, i am very grateful to commissioner wallström for her comments and for agreeing to incorporate much of the report into the commission’s thinking about evolving and developing the northern dimension into the future. but she did, i think, neglect to refer to the budget. it seems to me that this is not a question of parliament coming cap in hand, begging for support. we are, after all, an arm of the eu’s budgetary authority; it therefore seems to me logical and coherent that, if this is going to be an important element, there would be mechanisms and systems whereby, just as in other parts of the eu – euromed for example – we have a dedicated budget. we should give serious consideration to this and not brush it under the carpet. my final point is addressed again to commissioner wallström, and concerns communication, which is her brief. it seems that this is an exercise which can bring a real message of accomplishment and achievement to the citizens of the eu, to show that a region dislocated completely by the cold war can now have harmony, prosperity and stability restored. so i think this debate should be taken out into the field, to the public, to show a real success story for the eu. (applause)
mr president, of course we congratulate the rapporteur on his report and the points of interest it has raised, but i would not be fulfilling my role as president of this parliament’s delegation for relations with iceland and norway if i did not express some regret at the absence of a report or a resolution that expressed the full sweep of the northern dimension policy. i regret that fact because i feel that we are, therefore, neglecting the big geopolitical issues that face us in the high north that find their focus in climate change, in energy supply, in marine resources. of course those issues concern the baltic hugely, but they also concern the arctic and the high north. and if we want to bring our partner countries, norway and iceland, with us, then we have to reach out and not be inward-looking. we have previously striven, as a parliament, when we have talked about this issue, to bring the northern dimension away from just a ministerial level of policy. we have striven to bring it back to parliamentarians, into the ownership of parliamentarians across the region. i hope we will be able to do that in the meeting we seek to host at the beginning of next year. but let me emphasise again: the northern dimension should not be just about us. this year the commission concluded a very important agreement with greenland. it may be a small thing, but it shows that the arctic window is open and should remain open, and that there should be activity beyond our borders. next year is international polar year. i hope that we will raise both our vision and our eyes to the high north and give it the focus and the attention it deserves next year within the northern dimension policy.
mr president, first of all let me congratulate the rapporteur, my friend alexander stubb, and my colleague christopher beazley for his good work as chairman of the baltic intergroup. i totally endorse diana wallis’s remarks about raising the eu’s profile in northern europe. the northern dimension is a wide-ranging eu policy which governs eu relations with the north-west russian areas, including kaliningrad, the baltic and the arctic sea regions. the northern dimension is implemented within the framework of the partnership and cooperation agreement with russia. it is conceived as a way of working with the countries of europe’s northern regions to increase prosperity, strengthen security and resolutely combat dangers such as the environmental pollution of the baltic sea, nuclear risks such as those posed by the russian submarine fleet in the kola peninsula, cross-border crime and the management of marine resources, amongst others. eight eu member states – denmark, germany, poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, finland and sweden – surround the baltic sea, and the eu’s shared border with russia has lengthened significantly following enlargement. nevertheless, eu-russia relations cannot be dictated only by relations between the baltic states and russia. our strategic partnership and our collective eu needs for energy security, as well as cooperation in the fight against terrorism and the need to carry russia in areas like preventing nuclear proliferation from countries like iran and north korea, transcend regional issues such as those addressed by the northern dimension. there is currently financial support from tacis and interreg, but shortly russia will be part of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, and the eu should have a proper budget line for the region. climate change is making the arctic more accessible to human activities now, such as exploitation of natural resources and increased shipping, but the arctic also has an important role to play as an early-warning sign for potentially catastrophic global climate change. russia’s energy exports can also be a political weapon, we have now discovered, as we saw last year in ukraine and this year with georgia. now rumours abound that russia wishes to set up an opec-style gas cartel, which we must resist at all costs. i call upon president putin to get around to ratifying the eu energy charter, which would give all eu companies more access to russian oil and gas. the eu must also invest more in renewables and low-carbon energy, while encouraging as much diversity in supply as possible.
thank you, commissioner. i should also like to thank the rapporteur, mr beazley and all the speakers. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statement (rule 142)
the next item is the report by karl von wogau, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the european security strategy in the context of the esdp (2006/2033(ini)) (a6-0366/2006).
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, in the early 1950s jean monnet proposed a european defence community, with a european army run by a european minister for defence, a common budget and common arms procurement. this project was thankfully rejected by the french after president de gaulle opposed the idea. undeterred, jean monnet and his acolytes pursued the idea of a european political union by economic means rather than by defence and military means. over 50 years later, we have a european union which has almost completed its political agenda: it has its own president, its own cabinet in the shape of the commission, its own parliament, a single currency, flag, anthem and court of justice, just to name a few of its attributes. however, if it is to be a real state it must have its own military forces, and that is what this report is about. the report calls for a common equipment and equipment procurement policy and for integrated command and control and communication systems. what better way to ensure the integration of europe’s national military forces than by ensuring that they will begin so interdependently that they will not be able to operate independently. the militaristic pill is sugared, however, by reference to humanitarian operations and crisis management. however, call it what you will, it is an army, and if war is the continuation of politics by other means, then the european union needs an army to pursue its foreign policy ambitions. i am not surprised that mr von wogau pursues political integration by these means. he believes in political integration and is open about it, and i respect him for that. what disgusts me is that britain’s prime minister, the liar mr blair, and his rotten and corrupt labour government collude with the process of integrating britain’s armed forces into the planned european army, while pretending to defend britain’s national interest.
luckily, you are over call-up age, mr batten, so it will never affect you. (the sitting was suspended at 19.20 and resumed at 21.00)
madam president, i have consistently opposed eu meddling in the defence sphere. european countries are responsible for their security through their own efforts individually and through nato collectively, and that is how it should remain. the european union has moved on to defence territory, not because it adds defence capabilities, because it does not, but because there are those who wish to see the eu acquire more state-like attributes and become a global actor, pursuing its own distinct foreign policy objectives. to do this, it wants the full range of foreign policy instruments at its disposal, including armed forces. this report, however, goes well beyond the immediate ambitions of even those who drive esdp at the moment. it advocates a security and defence union and wants the eu to have its own defence budget. heaven help us if those responsible for the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy and all the interfering and counterproductive over-regulation of our lives were to have a role in organising our defence. these unacceptable proposals for a security and defence union, for an eu defence budget, are enough in themselves to ensure the opposition of the british conservative delegation, but the international context in which this report is being debated makes it doubly objectionable. nato is currently engaged in a vital operation in afghanistan. it is no exaggeration to say that the success of this mission is indispensable to nato’s future and to our own long-term security. the alliance has repeatedly called for reinforcement of this afghanistan mission with combat troops, tactical lift helicopters and indeed with forward civil reconstruction efforts to consolidate the military gains that are made. with some honourable exceptions, the response from european allies has been pitiful. i have no doubt in my own mind that esdp is a distraction from nato and is part of the problem. at this time of threat to the democracies, when solidarity is needed, it is disastrous for europeans and americans to have competing strategic visions, or indeed to have two defence organisations with overlapping membership, making competing claims on the same limited resources.
madam president, this is the first serious review of the european security strategy by parliament, but we are much less clear about nato. we say that nato is responsible for our collective defence and a forum for transatlantic relations. we do not say what we would do if nato fails to achieve peace in afghanistan. nato is not supposed to be defeated. nato has suffered from an absence of clear strategic reappraisal since the end of the cold war and it suffers from continuing poor collaboration with the european union. parliament should not be so shy of a critical scrutiny of nato, without which our grip upon the development of the european security and defence policy will always remain fanciful.
on behalf of the alde group . – madam president, on behalf of my group, i would like to welcome the green paper, and thank mr gargani very much for his report and all the work that has been done on it in terms of consultation. it really is welcome. this is clearly an issue that affects an increasing number of our citizens and that we have to address, but it is not a simple issue. when one thinks about how terrible it is for any individual to have to deal with bereavement and then adds to that the difficulties of dealing with some sort of transnational legal situation, it is clearly an area that we have to try to tackle in order to make life easier for our citizens, having encouraged them to be mobile in the way that we have. but the legal problems that this raises touch on subsidiarity. they touch the culture of our different legal systems very deeply. but it is clear that if we are to tackle the problem, we need, as mr gargani has said – and i think my group would also underline – to move towards a binding european certificate of inheritance. that has to be our first goal, to have free circulation of such a binding certificate, in the same way as we have free circulation of ordinary judgments. it is going to be difficult though because, as i have said, it touches matters of public policy within our various countries. it touches matters of taxation law. but i commend the report and hope that the commissioner will be able to take it forward to a legislative instrument.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on this very important report. the european policy against trafficking in human beings is a priority not only for this parliament but also for the european commission and myself. there is a need for further and more effective action to fight trafficking. even though many initiatives have been taken at national and international level, the results are not comparable to the enormous scale of the criminal phenomenon. the european action plan approved, as you will remember, last december, is the framework for practical action aimed at tackling all aspects of trafficking. i should like to stress some priorities that, in my view, are necessary. first, for the member states, it is essential that they accelerate the application of directive 2004/81/ec on the residence permit issued to third-country nationals who are victims of trafficking in human beings or have been the subject of an action to facilitate illegal migration and who cooperate with the competent authorities. it concerns, in particular, assistance and social reintegration measures, the reflection period and the issuing of the residence permit to victims of trafficking, taking into account also the council of europe convention of 2005. in this regard, it is important to point out that the reflection period and assistance measures are granted to victims irrespective of their willingness or capacity to cooperate with the law enforcement authorities and that, after the issuing of the residence permits, victims have access to the labour market, vocational training and education. what is the situation so far? unfortunately, it is very disappointing. so far only two member states have transposed the european directive and only six other notifications of initiatives to transpose have been examined by the european commission. there have been no notifications at all from 12 member states. as you know, the transposition deadline expired on 6 august 2006 and i have therefore decided to start infringement procedures against all member states that have not yet transposed this very important eu directive. concerning assistance and social reintegration, the need for close cooperation on a regular basis between public authorities, including law enforcement authorities, and ngos must also be stressed. i believe it is very important to have close and permanent cooperation between public authorities and the private sector on protecting and reintegrating victims. concerning investigations, following the initiatives taken by europol, international police cooperation between member states’ special units should be enhanced. i am promoting and encouraging better and closer cooperation between all the specialised national units dealing with countering trafficking in human beings. however, on this point, there is a consideration i should like to submit to you. with regard to prosecution i note, with disappointment, that very often charges against criminals exploiting victims of trafficking – for example for sexual reasons – are very weak, focusing only on the simple exploitation of prostitution instead of on the very real charge, which should be the reduction of victims to slavery conditions. it is up to the prosecutors to decide charges, but i really hope that magistrates and judges will now take a much tougher line than in the past. that is the real situation. there are also priorities for the european commission. i have decided to set up an expert group on trafficking in human beings. that group of experts will deal specifically with indicators and criteria in order to identify different forms of trafficking for the purpose of labour exploitation. in the same context, at the beginning of 2007 i shall propose european legislation on sanctioning employers who exploit illegal workers, whose working conditions are sometimes akin to slavery. concerning trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation, we shall shortly be producing a questionnaire aimed at evaluating, inter alia, the possible impact of new legislation criminalising the use of sexual services in the knowledge that the person concerned is a victim of trafficking. i am therefore keeping my promise to you about this questionnaire. furthermore, the root causes of trafficking must be addressed, including poverty, lack of job opportunities, gender violence and gender discrimination. my departments will shortly be hosting an inter-departmental seminar on this issue, precisely to focus on the main problems that are emerging. one last important point is awareness-raising. the commission is supporting the designation of an anti-trafficking day, possibly on 11 june. that initiative aims at increasing the visibility of the problems connected with trafficking and the measures taken to counteract trafficking itself. it will call for cooperation from public institutions and civil society and evaluate the quality and the results of all the actions that are under way.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work she has done on this report. as has been said, i drafted the opinion for the committee on employment, where we focused on those people who were effectively trafficked for labour purposes. indeed, one of the things i welcome in this report is its recognition of the wide variety of reasons for people being trafficked. my committee particularly welcomes the human rights-based approach of the integrated action plan, and recognises that this requires an emphasis, as the commissioner said, on the forced labour or services, slavery and slavery-like outcomes of trafficking. we have seen evidence of these slavery-like outcomes only too recently, in the shape of workers who have no choice of when, where or how they work. they have no rights. their accommodation is tied. they may find themselves beaten, deprived of any medical treatment, deprived of water in high temperatures, and sometimes, as was the case in morecombe bay in the uk, they are left to die. when looking at the causes, the committee also examined the issue of demand and considered that the demand for low-cost, undocumented and docile workers in the european union contributes to the illegal trade of trafficking in human beings. it believes that the existence of such a workforce may drive down costs but that this is at the expense of human dignity and an undermining of labour standards, health and safety measures and fair pay and of local and/or state income, through a failure to pay taxes and social contributions. we welcome the view expressed in this report that we should be looking, for example, at the dubious employment agencies that apply both for eu nationals and third country nationals, and which have become a front for these slavery-like outcomes. we believe that there is a need to apply existing labour law and to network the information from labour inspectorates to bring it within the sphere of police intelligence so that we can stop or disrupt trafficking. we also consider training to be an important dimension of that for those inspectorates. we recognise the importance of good company practice where compliance is genuinely sought all the way down the line, and we also recognise the valuable work of networks, trade unions and reputable companies in helping to prevent trafficking and deal with the victims. on a personal note, i very much welcome the action the commissioner has said he intends to take on the issue of temporary residence permits. i deeply regret the action of my own member state, for example, which views victims, as mr coveney said, predominantly as illegal migrants rather than as victims. the police tell us that those who are deported are often retrafficked around and around in a vicious circle, rather than being seen as vulnerable individuals, or indeed as potential sources of information. i very much welcome what the commissioner has said, and the report, and look forward to this being followed up with very strong action.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – (the speaker spoke irish) mr president, i want to thank the rapporteur, edit bauer, for the considerable work that has gone into the series of proposals contained in the recommendations for an integrated approach to fighting trafficking in human beings. given that this problem is on the rise, an integrated approach is required and one which takes full account of the importance of prevention and the crucial issue of reducing demand. i welcome the report’s call for eu member states and the council to strengthen the human-rights-based, gender-equality and victim-centred approach to this issue. it is essential that the trafficking of people be dealt with as a human rights issue, rather than being seen mainly as an issue of border control. trafficking is primarily about exploitation, not illegal migration. it is unacceptable that in some countries there is no legislative provision for residence permits for the victims of trafficking and in other states, where provision is made; it is linked to the victims’ cooperation with police. some victims clearly will not be able to provide useful information. they will be too traumatised to do so. i too welcome the commissioner’s comments here tonight. i think they underline the long overdue need for action by governments, including my own. the report contains important measures for protecting victims and shows the extent of the protection measures that are needed. these have to be included and resourced as part, as a major part in fact, of any action plan and implementation of that plan. i agree with other speakers that ratifying conventions is good, action plans are good, but we actually have to see the action to see this worked through. identifying the victims of trafficking is, of course, crucial to ensuring that they receive the services they require. training for those who come into contact with undocumented migrants is therefore important. the report also points out that measures are required to ensure the protection of not only victims of sexual exploitation but also victims of labour exploitation and other forms of trafficking. european governments therefore have to understand that an integral part of the fight against trafficking is the introduction of measures to strengthen workers’ rights to protect migrant workers. i think we need to look not only at the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings but also at ratifying the international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families. that too has to be an essential part of tackling trafficking in human beings.
mr president, i rise simply to report to the house the good news that last night the president of pakistan, who was our guest a few weeks ago, has commuted the death sentence on my constituent mirza-tahir hussain, who had been on death row for 18 years but is widely regarded to be innocent of the charges against him. a number of members of the european parliament, led by mr karim, were going to pakistan next month to make a final plea. now, of course, we shall turn our efforts towards ensuring mr hussain can return to leeds by christmas. i am delighted at this news and hope that the president of parliament will make a statement later today. i know he has worked very hard on this case, as have other members of parliament. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, i too should like to thank the ombudsman both for his report and for his interesting presentation today. i would also like to thank mr schwab for his very competent report and analysis of the ombudsman’s report. there is little to say except that everything seems to be going well in the sense that our citizens are more aware of the ombudsman’s activities. if the numbers of complaints are rising owing to an increasing awareness of what is possible and an awareness of europe, then that is helping to bring our citizens closer to us. that is what we should be all about. reports of this type help give us a snapshot of what is going on and of how we can do things better in the future, and this report sets out many of those lessons. i want to centre my remarks on an issue already mentioned by other speakers, which is that if we want to be citizen-centred then we have to ensure that our citizens can make a complaint easily, perhaps via a one-stop shop. simply having a good website may not be the answer. at present there are a lot of people dealing with complaints, problems and issues. we have the ombudsman’s very good service, parliament’s committee on petitions, the commission itself, which accepts complaints, and ourselves as meps, who receive constituents’ case-work, as well as solvit and eurojust. i fear that some eu citizens who apply to one of these bodies only to be referred to another will fall by the wayside and give up. we need to think about ways in which we can bring these various strands together so that our citizens feel that their issues are being answered promptly and that they are being directed to the right recipient. that is something we should think about for the future. thank you again for your report.
mr president, i congratulate mr schwab. he has produced a jolly good report and i am delighted to be part of it. the ombudsman has been signally successful in his activities, but ironically his success has provoked more interest. that, however, is actually good news for the task of the committee on petitions, to which the ombudsman reports and whose joint work with him is so important. i agree entirely with diana wallis that is essential that eu citizens are made more aware of the facilities for the redress of grievances, particularly those that exist through the auspices of the ombudsman and the committee on petitions. i, with everyone else, congratulate mr diamandouros on his achievements, especially, if i may say so, on his determination, past, present and future, in explaining the use of his powers to the new member states and encouraging them to use his services. we have plans to do the same on behalf of the committee on petitions and i should say that the combination of a commissioner from sweden, where the ombudsman originated, and an ombudsman from greece, where democracy originated, is a powerful and influential one. i am particularly interested in the ombudsman’s special reports. he will know that i am the rapporteur manqué for one such report, relating to olaf. he must know, as must this house, that i will not allow this issue to go away. transparency and open dealing must be paramount and this report must and will be dealt with when the judicial process is completed. as the chairman said, the committee on petitions is of increasing importance and must soon cease to be the cinderella committee at the end of the list of limited significance. the activities of the ombudsman and the petitions committee are many, various and growing exponentially. they must be recognised by parliament and the conference of presidents and given the authority they deserve. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, but in my one minute i want to focus directly on what we should be doing. we should be examining the way we communicate with our citizens, and that means we have to be absolutely clear about the language that we use. it must be plain, simple, clear and precise. it is no use talking about tools and barometers. people switch off. we need to be passionate about what we do and how we do it. this is arguably the most successful european institution, and yet we are criticised and we very rarely defend ourselves. there are 25 member states with different political persuasions and cultures, acting together for the common benefit of 450 million citizens – absolutely brilliant! but do we sell and promote what we do effectively? we do not. do we ensure that national parliaments engage in their scrutiny role? no, we do not. we merely stand back and take the criticism. finally, let me grab four seconds. i urge the commission to go forward with its proposal for the review of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001. it is not in this report. it is accepted in the commission work programme. we can only be held accountable and be effective if people understand what we do for them.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the eu communication policy that this report evaluates was devised in an attempt to – and i quote – ‘halt the rise of euroscepticism’. it is yet another reaction to the french and dutch public rejecting unequivocally both the draft constitutional treaty and further integration. instead of accepting that ‘no’ means ‘no’, the political elite have deluded themselves that the french and dutch people did not base their ‘no’ votes on sensible and educated grounds. indeed, a commission official is recently quoted as saying: ‘given the recent experience in france and the netherlands concerning referendums, we would not advise anyone to organise one’. so asking people what they want is a no-no. may i offer you some advice? you are in a hole of your own making. i suggest you stop digging. you should throw away the spade. why? very simply, because you are missing the point. it does not matter how much style and gloss you put on a project, because if the substance is rotten then it will fail. for communication to be successful you have to listen. simply shouting louder will not do! the institutions are being disingenuous to the people they purport to represent. the french and dutch have scuppered the project, yet you go on as if this never happened. let me assure you that if and when the british people are afforded the same opportunity, the results will be even more conclusive, and that no communication policy will change the growing realisation that, right across the member states, the eu project is an expensive failure.
mr president, for us to plunge into legislation in this sensitive field would be a great mistake. it is clear that an eu media law would be complex, controversial and unpopular. my group therefore strongly opposes the deployment of article 308, which is neither necessary nor suitable. we greatly prefer the commission’s original and pragmatic proposal for a code of conduct.
in writing. britain is in the forefront of research into defences against biological and toxin weapons and britain must have continue to have freedom of action and independence in these matters. we deplore the use of weapons against civilian populations and fully support the existing geneva conventions, including the fourth convention, which already provides legal protection for civilians in time of war and has been ratified by 194 countries.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party has today decided to join fellow meps in voting to support the international campaign for a ban on the use of cluster bombs. in addition, we draw attention to the fact that although white phosphorus is a conventional and not a chemical weapon, britain - but not america - has signed protocol iii of the 1980 convention on certain conventional weapons banning the use of incendiary weapons against civilian populations. labour accepts the assessment of health consequence from depleted uranium made by britain's royal society and supports further research by the world health organisation. british troops always deserve the best available equipment to protect themselves, but reports that white phosphorus grenades were used in iraq have been shown to be wrong, and neither does britain have any du stocks in iraq.
in writing. the british conservative delegation fully supports the btwc and the international efforts to universalise the convention and to implement it effectively. we are also long-standing and consistent supporters of the ban on anti-personnel landmines (apl) although we do not believe that it is a priority to clear apl from uninhabited and economically unused terrain (for example, parts of the falkland islands) provided that areas of possible danger are properly indicated. we are also very wary about campaigns to extend the scope of international conventions to include cluster and other munitions. we support moves to minimise the negative after-effects of conflict, such as explosive remnants, and to introduce 'smart' (self-destructive, precision-guided, etc.) weapons where appropriate. we support a ban on the use of white phosphorus a weapon, but it has other battlefield uses, for example for smokescreen. we would certainly not support any action that would put british military personnel at increased risk or deprive the british armed forces of essential ordnance. therefore, while we support most of the text of this resolution we are not able to support a sweeping ban on cluster munitions at this stage, or indeed on the use of white phosphorus. we therefore voted against the amendments and abstained overall.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party supports much of this report, in particular the emphasis on ensuring that esdp is made more effective, so that it can be used as a tool to help in crisis zones throughout the world. we also welcome the support given to greater cooperation between the eu and nato, building on past experience, and the need for further development of capabilities. however, we do not support the provisions in paragraph 52 concerning the establishment of a european defence minister, or the establishment of a european standing naval force. in addition, we do not support paragraph 44, which recommends military operations be funded centrally from the eu budget. concerning paragraph 51, it is important to remember that we are currently in a period of reflection on the future of the constitution and to underline that esdp does not constitute the development of a security and defence union.
mr president, since the turkish invasion of 1974, cyprus has remained tragically divided and the city of famagusta has been occupied by the turkish armed forces. we are now beginning to see a promising deal emerging under the finnish presidency of the eu, under which the turkish-occupied north of the island can be reopened to direct trade through the port of famagusta, under strict eu monitoring. this would be in exchange for the return by turkey of the fenced-off area of varosha to its original greek cypriot residents, under un control. fortunately, the original greek cypriot inhabitants can return with minimal disruption, as no one needs to be relocated because the depopulated varosha area was sealed off in 1974 and is under the direct control of the turkish military. reference to the resettlement of varosha was included in the 1979 kyprianou-denktas high-level agreement. it was agreed all that time ago that this would be implemented without awaiting the outcome of the discussion on other aspects of the cyprus problem, or be used as a bargaining chip in dealing with other cypriot issues. certainly its return cannot be linked to the issue of turkey implementing its firm commitment as an eu candidate state to open its ports to all cypriot vessels, as agreed by turkey under the ankara protocol on enlargement of the customs union, which must be extended to all eu member states. these include the republic of cyprus, which turkey ludicrously refuses to recognise legally, even though cyprus is a full eu member state. the green line also needs to be carefully monitored if direct trade from the north is resumed, with regard to potential increases in illegal immigration and people-trafficking, particularly of women from eastern europe. furthermore, the so-called republic of northern cyprus cannot be allowed to carry on as a sanctuary to escaped criminals, including notable uk fugitives from justice such as mr asil nadir.
author. – mr president, in these debates we regularly stress the importance of dialogue and frank discussion. in ethiopia’s case that dialogue will be a critical one, both in the sense of it being important and in the sense of our being critical of the ethiopian government’s current practices. the omens are not good. some 193 citizens were killed in the riots in june and november 2005. the report on that inquiry remains unpublished, sanitised and unclear. since that time a number of ethiopians have been imprisoned, and recently two eu officials were expelled from the country. all this is not news to anyone involved in this debate, but things are stacking up and do not look good for ethiopia. dialogue will indeed be critical and, as mr matsakis says, paragraph 7 of this resolution expresses regret at the forthcoming visit of prime minister zenawi to brussels to tell us about good governance. this is an irony that would be funny were it not so tragic. however, let us be positive. the commissioner will hopefully tell us today that this will give us the opportunity to speak to prime minister zenawi and tell him frankly of our concerns. i hope the commissioner will confirm that this opportunity will not be missed when mr zenawi comes to brussels. ethiopia plays an important role in the african union and an important role in development. we could work much better in cooperation with one another. however, that cooperation, as colleagues have mentioned, should not be taken for granted and must be based on mutual principles and, importantly, adherence to them. if we do not stick to our principles we can hardly expect others to, so i hope we can have a frank and open discussion with the prime minister when he comes to brussels.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, it must be a top eu priority to ensure free and fair elections next year in bangladesh, a traditionally secular and democratic country of 140 million people. for many years since its foundation in 1971, bangladesh was the exception in the islamic world as it pursued its independent course as a bengali nation in a peaceful and democratic fashion. regrettably, since 2001 there has been increasing islamicisation of bangladesh as islamists have attempted to fill the vacuum left by corrupt warring secular parties. the ngo task force against torture has documented over 500 cases of torture and intimidation by radical islamists who have also murdered supporters of the communist party. indeed, hindus, ahmadis, christians, chittagong hill tract tribal people and buddhists have also been targeted. recent civil unrest took to the streets with violent outbreaks as the awami league opposition doubted the impartiality of the electoral commission, the integrity of the voters’ list or even the impartiality of the original caretaker prime ministerial nominee. the eu-bangladesh cooperation agreement of 2000 is based on respect for democratic principles pursuant to article 1, and its breach can lead to the suspension of the agreement and with it the significant eu generalised system of tariff preferences and eu foreign aid, which amounts to 70% of bangladesh’s total foreign aid. the eu and all the major donors must now coordinate to keep up the pressure for reform and full respect for democracy, a free press and human rights for all of bangladesh’s citizens prior to the parliamentary elections scheduled to take place next january. we must send short-term political observers from the european parliament in substantial numbers. these elections are crucial and it is essential that the eu maintains a visible major presence throughout the caretaker government period, as otherwise some frustrated, power-hungry general might consider launching a military coup.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, three weeks ago i attended the granting of an honorary doctorate to former president khatami of iran at my former university in my home town of st andrews – the oldest scottish university and one of the oldest and most venerable european universities. in his valedictory lecture, former president khatami appealed for a dialogue of civilisations, a dialogue of religions. that is, surely, the only way we will achieve that essential understanding between our respective positions. it is in that spirit that i support this motion. we appeal to the iranian authorities and the iranian people to understand how difficult it is for us to accept the numerous and repeated infringements of such clearly basic human rights as religious rights, women’s rights, children’s rights, minority rights, rights to justice, rights to freedom of speech and thought, and press freedom, as listed in this resolution. we urge the iranian authorities to respond positively to our appeals in order that we can proceed to a positive dialogue, which can only be to the benefit of europe and iran, and of peace and understanding between our peoples.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as commissioner wallström’s research – presented to one of our committees last week – has revealed, there is at least as much a communication crisis in the european union as a constitutional crisis. we risk slowly but inexorably losing the confidence and trust of our citizens by our collective failure to respond to their concerns and our inability to frame a coherent and acceptable response. those concerns are many and varied, but to my mind they hinge around responses to the challenges of the world in which we live. we witness rapid world population growth, even though it is declining here, and failure to share equitably the fruits of our endeavours or the benefits of modernity. as a result, many vote with their feet. we are creating a global economy without forging a comparable global social contract. we face a major challenge, as the prime minister mentioned, from internationally organised crime, with some criminal gangs now more powerful than some national governments. yet the union seems more geared to solving yesterday’s problems than today’s or tomorrow’s. the tools to solve these problems are at our disposal in a common foreign and security policy and a justice and home affairs policy, but they lie unemployed. the irony is that the constitution as it emerged from the convention probably met most critics’ concerns. unfortunately, europe’s political class failed to explain this, for which we all share responsibility. we left the field open to the constitution’s detractors and there is little sign yet that france will have a more serene or informed debate on its place in europe in the run-up to next may’s elections, or that the netherlands, emerging from elections last week, has really made up its mind. it would be too easy to conclude that the victory for the anti-european parties is confirmation that we got it wrong, but we need the prime ministers of those two countries to come here to explain to us how they see the way forward. in poland there is denial, and from across the english channel an eerie silence reflecting relief and embarrassment in near equal measure. i hope the germans can relaunch the debate. i applaud angela merkel’s determination to do this, but i suspect she will find it extremely difficult within the period of the german presidency. this is where ireland can play such an important part, prime minister, not only because of the role you played in the convention, or your experience of adverse referendum, but because of ireland’s role in looking for what you called a return to the balance and the substance of the constitutional treaty, and in working together with portugal and slovenia. go out and build a coalition of smaller countries that know how important it is to respond to the challenges of globalisation. go out and build a coalition of the political forces which, in response to the challenges of globalisation, recognise that we need to keep the drawbridge down rather than pull it up. we have to show our citizens that the european union can work on energy policy, on issues like mobile phone roaming charges, and in particular on justice and home affairs. we can do that with the existing treaties by use of the passerelle clause. by any objective standards our union is a great success. therefore, think less about changes to the constitution and more about building the collective courage to go out and persuade people why it is necessary.
mr president, to what do we owe the visit by the irish prime minister today? could it be connected to the upcoming irish election, to allow mr ahern to be seen back home as a statesman on the european scene? one wonders! the last time mr ahern was here at the end of the irish council presidency, he was celebrating having overseen an agreement between the heads of governments on the eu constitution. he readily basked in the adulation of europhile fanatics in this house. by now, november 2006, he and they assured us that the eu constitution would be in full operation. but, as often happens, they reckoned without the most important component of democratic politics: the views of the people. as the constitution floundered on the rocks of rejection in france and holland, mr ahern – though an avowed euro-enthusiast – and my government in the united kingdom lost their nerve and hurriedly abandoned the prospect of giving the people of the british isles a chance to give their verdict by postponing the referenda, because they were fearful of the result. now he returns to tell us again of the marvels of european integration and that the rejected constitution must be revived. it seems to me that it is a stale message about a moribund constitution from one who may well soon be judged by his own electorate to be a stale politician.
mr president, firstly i would like to welcome the taoiseach to parliament. i would like to start on a note of harmony in saying that i have read with great interest his recent statements on the passerelle clause in matters relating to justice and home affairs and i entirely agree with him that we should not proceed down that road. criminal justice policy, the fight against terrorism and action to defeat trafficking and illegal emigration, are matters that rightly belong to the nation state, yet we have not even explored all the options to improve intergovernmental cooperation in these and other justice fields, and i believe that we should. as for the constitution, the debate now seems to be entering the realms of fantasy. the french and dutch people delivered the fatal blow, and yet we hear this week that the finnish presidency has been quietly stock-taking with member states to see whether it can somehow be resuscitated. mr sarkozy calls for a ‘mini-constitution’. the commission rejects it. the german government says it wants the constitution kept intact and then resurrected. the outgoing dutch government made clear it would not have a second referendum. the british government, true to form, appears to be split: the foreign secretary says it was a grandiose scheme which had failed; the junior europe minister says we need to address the substance of the constitution. well, has the penny dropped yet? europe needs to move on. it needs to move on to stop alienating the electorate in a dangerous way. i have called consistently for reforms. we must have economic reforms. we must address the failure to achieve the kyoto emission targets. we must have those fundamental reforms, enabling us to compete with the emerging giants in asia. we need to have agricultural policies that do not undermine the fight against global poverty and we need effective leadership. as my party leader has said, it is because we want to see a future for the eu and believe in a strong europe that we call for a change of direction. our continent is crying out for leadership and we debate a piece of paper. i have to say that history is sadly littered with unwanted and inappropriate pieces of paper.
a uachtaráin, cuirim fhéin fáilte roimh an taoiseach go parlaimint na heorpa inniu fosta. le linn na tréimhse athmhachnaimh seo, is léir go bhfuil daoine áirithe ag machnamh ar aon rud amháin agus is é sin conas an freagra ab fhearr leo a fháil. bíodh sin mar atá, tá an oiread sin tábhachta leis an díospóireacht ar thodhchaí na heorpa gur gá a oiread guthanna agus is féidir a chur san áireamh ó gach earnáil den tsochaí agus gur gá meas a bheith air agus freastal ar an réimse barúlacha difriúla. cuirimid fáilte roimh, agus spreagaimid fiú, a leithéid de dhíospóireacht. tá fís d’eoraip ann a chuireann daoine, comhionannas, cearta sóisialta agus eacnamaíoch agus cearta sibhialta ag a lár. is é sin fís seo againn féin i sinn féin agus fís ár gcomhpháirtithe in gue/ngl. tá saoránaigh buartha, tá siad buartha faoi mhíleatachas agus faoi dhúnfort a dhéanamh d’eoraip, tá siad buartha faoi chumhacht pholaitiúil agus eacnamaíoch ag imeacht níos faide ar shiúl ón ghnáthdhuine. tá siad buartha fosta faoi chúrsaí príobháidithe agus go mbeidh comhionannas, inbhuanaitheacht agus comhtháthú sóisialta thíos leis. chuala muid cuid ón taoiseach inniu mar fhreagra air sin ach caithfidh an chomhairle agus coimisiún na heorpa a rá go soiléir ar chuala siad nó nár chuala na buarthaí sin agus a rá linn cad é mar atá siad chun leanúint ar aghaidh ó seo.
mr president, the taoiseach properly said that the achievement of the 2004 package was extremely tricky and complex. surely it would be sensible, therefore, to ring-fence the preamble and the first and second parts from renegotiation and to focus all the effort on modernising and improving part iii? surely we cannot achieve greater competitiveness, a strengthened social partnership, improvements to a common energy policy and so forth without a substantive improvement to part iii? (applause)
mr president, in the language of some of my ancestors, i should like to say to the taoiseach:fáilte go dtí parlaimint na heorpa. welcome to the parliament of europe, which symbolises the motto of the european union, ‘unity with diversity’. there are representatives of every political party in europe, from left to right, from capital cities to regions, from governing parties to opposition parties. it is the parliament that voted by 500 votes to 137 to endorse this constitutional treaty as the best way forward for the future of europe. so i am particularly glad to hear you say today that we must find the solution to these issues, because the problems the constitutional treaty was intended to solve have not disappeared overnight. they have not gone away. we must find a solution acceptable to all 27 countries, including the two that voted ‘no’, but also taking account of the 18 that have voted ‘yes’, which will wish to keep the text as intact as possible. i was glad to hear that, though it has not yet ratified, ireland also wishes to keep the text as intact as possible. that is an important message for us. in the uk too, my government signed the constitutional treaty and was re-elected on the basis of a manifesto that said that it would campaign with enthusiasm for this constitutional treaty. there is wide recognition that whatever solution is found next june, and one must be found, it should take account of the will of the majority and keep as much as can be salvaged of this constitutional treaty.
mr president, russia, in its four common spaces engaging with the eu, remains our strategic partner. we need a strong, united and stable russia as an ally against rising islamist terrorism, working with us through the quartet in solving the arab-israeli conflict, preventing in the un security council iranian and north korean nuclear proliferation, as well as being a reliable trading partner in its supply of 30% of the eu’s gas needs. nevertheless, we take a dim view of the atrocities in chechnya, the deterioration in human rights and democratic freedoms – in particular press freedom, and contract killings of journalists and opponents of the government, such as my constituent from london, alexander litvinenko. we also reject the traditional russian habit of cosying up bilaterally to big member states such as britain, france and germany, in order to pressurise others such as the baltic states and, most recently, poland, by banning its beef exports. russia all too frequently invokes phytosanitary regulations to bully troublesome ‘near-abroad neighbours’ such as moldova and georgia, where wine and mineral waters were banned. otherwise, russia uses differential gas pricing by gazprom as a foreign policy instrument to put pressure on neighbours such as ukraine. recently, nato released a report suggesting that russia is planning a ‘gas opec’ with algeria, qatar, uzbekistan and kazakhstan, which would be a serious threat to the eu’s external energy security interests. one way of responding to this, particularly after russia’s refusal to sign the energy charter treaty, is to tell president nazarbayev of kazakhstan, on his visit to brussels next week, that his country, like its ethnic cousin azerbaijan, would be welcome in the european neighbourhood policy, rather than kazakhstan joining russia, ukraine and belarus in the yalta treaty’s single economic space.
rapporteur. – mr president, bulgaria applied to join the european union 11 years ago, in 1995, and negotiations were opened five years later. since those days we have seen remarkable changes: on the economic front gdp has doubled, foreign investment has increased from less than usd 100 million to over usd 1.7 billion, real wages have increased year on year and unemployment has halved. since the opening of negotiations, we have seen three changes of government, representing a wide range of the political spectrum: from the udf government of ivan kostov, to the return of former king simeon to lead his national movement government from 2001 to 2005, to the present socialist-led coalition under sergei stanishev. all have played a strong part in the reform process, taking forward bulgaria’s progress towards eu accession. this progress has taken place in spite of a very difficult regional situation, with conflict on bulgaria’s borders. the nato-led operations against serbia began in march 1999 with air strikes that destroyed the danube bridges and severed navigation between the upper and lower danube for two years. in addition to this economic disruption, devastating floods hit parts of bulgaria in 2005, with many deaths and thousands left homeless. the fact that we saw nato accession in march 2004 and have now reached the point of eu accession is a tribute to the determination and hard work of so many at all levels and from all shades of government, and no less a tribute to the bulgarian people. they have seen their country turned over, examined and criticised at an accelerating pace. they have put up with dramatic change, as well as generalised and unjustified insults, but they have shown the forbearance and resolve to press on regardless, mindful perhaps of that old bulgarian saying: ‘a gentle word opens an iron gate’. i have always said that modernisation should be seen as beneficial in its own right and not merely as a prerequisite to eu accession, a sentiment that is reflected in my report today. at the same time, we all recognise that this process will continue for many years after accession. many of you know that i am critical of so many aspects of the european union, but i believe that the enlargement process is a great achievement, extending the area of democracy, stability, security and prosperity ever more widely, with generous financial support. provided that funds are well targeted, properly managed and well used, this is ultimately to the benefit of all citizens, not least the people of bulgaria. let me focus on two particular issues. police and judicial reform has been a major concern throughout the accession process. there has been much progress, but there is still a long way to go. old habits die hard and there are so many competing demands for public expenditure. however, there is nothing more important for the day-to-day confidence of citizens in their government and administration than a professional, competent and fair justice system. i call for even more tangible and visible action by the bulgarian authorities in dealing with serious crime. let me also touch on the subject of kozloduy, which has attracted much attention. bulgaria is one of many countries in europe facing an energy gap in the years ahead, with increasing reliance on energy imports from russia and areas of instability. i am a great believer in safe, sustainable energy resources that minimise carbon emissions, as well as diversity and security of supply. the mood has changed and there is wide recognition that nuclear energy must play a stronger role. this is particularly true of bulgaria, which has generated electricity from nuclear sources, both for its own requirements and for other countries in the region. the current undertaking is for the two reactors, units 3 and 4, to be closed this year and subsequently decommissioned. we have reiterated the call for a little flexibility rather than unnecessary dogmatism. this will give time for more attention to be given to redressing the economic consequences of premature closure and for progress to be made in creating additional sources of energy supply. let me briefly turn to another burning issue. we have still to secure the release of the bulgarian nurses from libyan custody. they have been wrongly incarcerated now for seven years. what a gesture it would be if they could be home for christmas! i hope that the message to the libyan authorities will be even more powerful with bulgaria’s imminent accession to the eu. i should like to call on you, mr president, the council and the commission to make a further appeal to president gaddafi. let me also take this opportunity to pay tribute to many charities that have worked hard in bulgaria over the years, including save the children, ark and harvest for the hungry, which is based in my own constituency in chelmsford. i wish to thank the bulgarian observers for their cooperation and assistance. i look forward to working closely with bulgarian meps next year, following elections in the spring, and i also want to thank parliament for the privilege of being its rapporteur these past six years. in particular, i thank successive bulgarian governments and the people of bulgaria for their stoicism and friendship. we very much welcome them to the club. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – it gives me the greatest pleasure, on behalf of the alde group, to welcome both countries into the european union. mr lambsdorff has allowed me the opportunity of thanking mr van orden for his dedicated and serious work, which has helped bulgaria immensely to accede to the union on this date. bulgaria’s accession process has not always been a smooth one. mr lambsdorff has empowered me to suggest that this is not entirely bulgaria’s fault. perhaps the council and the commission might care to introduce some reforms for future accessions. he recommends that the reform of the justice system should be observed more vigorously from the beginning of the accession process. the same recommendation applies to the fight against corruption. these are the only mechanisms we can use to guarantee effectiveness and transparency in such difficult areas before future candidates join the union. of course, it is now important for bulgaria to concentrate on the period after accession. bulgaria must prove that she is able to implement the requirements the commission has issued in its progress report in order to avoid any activation of safeguard clauses. it is clear, however, that bulgaria is a pro-european country, as the recent elections proved, and it is now up to bulgaria’s decision-makers to continue their efforts and to follow their words with concrete and credible actions. i now turn to romania, a country whose people have long been close to my mind and to my heart. what a pleasure it has been to be of small assistance to romania in her move towards this wonderful accession moment. i congratulate most warmly my fellow rapporteur, and now the rapporteur, on his final report and on his previous work. it has also been a pleasure to work with him. this is a time of real celebration for all romanians. entry into the union should trigger inward investment, which romania badly needs. it will enhance workers’ rights and, over time, bring prosperity within the grasp of all romania’s people: a true time of celebration. it is a pleasure to have in the visitors’ gallery today theodora bertzi, the minister for adoptions, alina mandroiu, from the high-level group for romanian children, and minister bogdan panait, who is in charge of child protection. i urge colleagues concerned about child protection and adoptions in romania to go straight upstairs and speak to these experts. they have all the files, all the information, and you will be agreeably surprised. you will find that child health and welfare has progressed dramatically since the early 1990s. indeed, as the prime minister said in his letter, romania has vigorously addressed this issue. as the noted children’s author j.k. rowling said recently, ‘when you look at how far romania has come, it is hard not to concede that a minor miracle has been achieved’. romania is a model for other countries hoping to reform. romania was the state that acknowledged that there was a problem and set out to do something about it. colleagues, vote for all of mr moscovici’s report, but reject the amendments. in the foreign affairs committee we rejected not only those amendments but the offending clauses in the opinions of the women’s rights and civil liberties committees as well. romania has changed. these amendments reflect the old days and not the reality. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, there is a certain inevitability about the debate today and the vote tomorrow; after all, the european union wants to become a global power, so the argument goes that the bigger it is, the better, and that there is a nice, cosy consensus here in the chamber. well, not us! in 2004, ukip was the only british party to vote against the enlargement of the european union, arguing that the free movement of goods and services is one thing, but to have the free movement of peoples between countries with vastly differing gdps is nothing less than wholly irresponsible. we predicted a massive migration: condemned though we were at the time, we have been proved right; there are well over half a million in britain that are registered for work, but nobody doubts that the true figure is much nearer one million. and there is one hell of a cost to it. already, we have 55 000 people claiming some form of state benefit. unemployment in the uk has increased by over a quarter of a million in the last year. we have a huge over-supply in our unskilled labour market. even the oecd said yesterday that eu enlargement had been at a very high cost to britain. and what is our solution to all of this? to admit two countries that are even poorer than those that joined two years ago, with the inevitability, in percentage terms, of an even bigger migration! i know everyone is in denial: we have had the bulgarian prime minister here, the romanian prime minister here; and they are all telling us that it will not happen, that there will not be a huge movement of peoples, but of course there will. there is a much better way of doing this. we should have a proper, on-demand work permit scheme, especially for skilled workers. we have got nothing against the peoples of eastern europe wanting to get on, but we simply cannot have an open-door immigration policy. the truth is, we cannot take the numbers. it does not make sense, and if we carry on down this road, i am afraid there is going to be bad blood and bad feeling in many towns and cities across the uk. then we have the extraordinary role that is being played here by the rapporteur for bulgaria, one geoffrey van orden. in chelmsford he is a fierce eurosceptic, our brave brigadier battling for britain, the spirit of 1940, we can all sleep well in our beds! but it is not quite the same here in brussels, is it geoffrey? in brussels, you are the commission’s man. you have done the commission’s bidding, you have done everything you can to get bulgaria into the european union, and it will lead to a mass migration. in fact, you resemble alec guinness in the film the bridge on the river kwai, doing completely the wrong thing for what you think is the right reason. i just hope that everybody that voted conservative in eastern england – especially those that are about to lose their jobs – knows what you and your party have done in this place. (applause from the ind/dem group)
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i have three brief points. i am pleased to see that the commission is looking to use the structural funds to help deal with the social implications of this dreadful development. however, questions have been raised over whether the globalisation adjustment fund can be used or not. well, i hope this week’s news that volkswagen is to build plants in both india and russia will show that there are global considerations and that the fund will be used to intervene. second, i welcome news that production of the audi a1 might move to the forest plant to save some jobs, but the workforce has already been warned that such a move must involve a drop in labour costs. i hope this does not turn out to be a cynical move by vw, taking away with one hand and giving back with another, but in the meantime dramatically driving down wages and terms and conditions. vw should be aware that we will be watching developments very closely in the months ahead. finally, a question to the commissioner. if the directive creating a general framework on information and consultation and the european works council directives are in force and are being observed in belgium, how can this news have come as a shock last week? unless the commission assiduously ensures the application and enforcement of social laws, social europe will fall into total disrepute, and citizens will quite rightly turn their backs on the eu. i am glad to hear, commissioner, that you are now taking action, but quite frankly it is a little late for the workers at forest. finally, i hope that the ppe-de group is solidly behind the globalisation adjustment fund. that is not what i have been hearing. i hope we see full support in the vote two weeks from now.
co-rapporteur. – mr president, first of all i should like to thank mrs flautre for her very hard work and that of her staff in recent months in trying to bring this instrument to the point where we can adopt it by the end of this year. i would also like to thank the commission and its staff, and the council, for their work. both the council and the commission have worked very hard to try and achieve some sort of compromise on this instrument. i must say that, in general terms, the ambitions of the chairman of the human rights subcommittee, my co-rapporteur, have largely been met. i think on the question of human rights promotion, which represents universal values accepted worldwide, we now have an instrument which has the capacity and the flexibility to work effectively, primarily through civil society, and to achieve the goals of the european union in its treaty obligations towards human rights worldwide. there is, however, a deficiency. as colleagues know, i was the original promoter and founding rapporteur of the european initiative back in 1992. it was aimed at the transformation of the ex-soviet bloc and it looked primarily at the democratic process. in the world today we now face different challenges. i have spent some time this year going to countries which are ‘complex environments’, to use the terminology of the united nations: china, cuba and russia. these are the challenges of today. my question to council and commission – and since the council has chosen to negotiate in public – is, why cannot we as a european union avail ourselves of the same instruments that our member state governments have given to the united nations? i regard this as a great puzzle. during my recent visit to new york i spent some talk talking to the undp, which, in its handbook on dealing with political parties, says, ‘yet we have seen that the absence of strong, accountable and competent political parties that can represent positions and negotiate change, weakens the democratic process’. this is a parliament of political parties. democracy cannot exist without competing political forces. so i just wonder whether the council has lost its nerve. faced with the challenges that we see to our east and to our south, is it really satisfactory that the european union should not have the same capacity to involve itself in the political process, to reform countries where there is no democracy, that we have given to the united nations? i believe that the european union should put its democracy money where its mouth is and include in the instrument a reference to supporting democratic political groups. that, in some countries, is the only way to effect change.
mr president, let me begin by saying that it was this parliament that insisted there should be a separate legal instrument for human rights and democracy. it took a while to convince our friends and colleagues of that, but tonight’s debate shows that it is a victory for parliament, and the right decision was made. on the key issues within the debate, i very much welcome what our finnish presidency colleague has said about this being a programme that delivers help without the consent of host governments. to the commissioner, i say i am very proud of the work that we do on electoral observation. i think it is one of the most effective things we are involved with. our attempt to limit it is simply to say that it should not take money away from grassroots human rights projects. both are important. my own amendments tabled included support for parliamentary democracy where it is being suppressed, making sure that spending under this instrument is additional and not at the expense of human rights work within the mainstream programmes, and to give specific reference in the scope to core labour standards and corporate social responsibility, to the human rights of people with disabilities, and to access to justice. i should like to thank the corapporteurs for their support for these amendments, and the council and the commission for the flexibility they have shown as regards parliament’s amendments as a whole. tonight we have been debating the detail of legal texts. in this house we understand how important that is to ensure the european union is effective. however, the main political message we should give is that just as this parliament has established its own subcommittee on human rights, this union is establishing an independent human rights and democracy instrument, because at the same time as the united nations is elevating the status and role of human rights, so are we in the european union, to help the victims of oppression, injustice and persecution, and those who defend them right around this world.
mr president, i should like to pay tribute to my constituent, mr alexander litvinenko. alexander was fearless in exposing the political gangsters that now run russia, and the creatures of the kgb and fsb that still hold political office in europe. for his bravery, he paid the ultimate price. in april, i made two speeches in this parliament repeating allegations made to me by alexander that romano prodi had been an agent of some kind of the kgb. alexander told me that the key figure to understanding mr prodi’s alleged relationship with the kgb in the 1970s was a man named sokolov, also known as konopkine, who worked for tass in italy. since alexander can no longer testify to this effect, as he was ready, willing and able to do, i am pleased to provide this service for him posthumously.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets. – mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs and my colleague in committee on budgets, mrs xenogiannakopoulou, for her thorough and insightful opinion. i wish to express my unreserved support for the collaborative research and development programmes in europe. i see this as a very important policy area that has direct impact on the way the eu develops as a global economy and the way we are regarded by the rest of the world. the seventh framework programme, as we have heard, is the biggest eu research programme to date and it pulls all the research-related eu initiatives under the roof of its eur 53 billion programme. the commission’s initial request was for eur 70 billion, which was a huge increase on previous years. however, we should not forget that this is a seven-year programme, not a five-year one like its immediate predecessor, and that its resources will be stretched across 27 member states rather than the 15 and then 25 of the previous programmes. we should also understand that doubling the fp7 reflects the clear importance of science and research to the development of the eu as a global player and as an economic power. if we want to be competitive, we must walk our talk by investing in the areas that we know are key to our growth. unfortunately, i do not think the council actually believes this and it is a pity that it did not support the commission’s request for eur 70 billion. despite all the hype we have heard from the council and all the noises it has made about the need to achieve the lisbon goals and the importance of pushing our research and development spending up to 3% of gdp – which is still a long way behind japan and the us – is it not incredible that the final figure agreed by the council takes the spending up to only 1.5%? what is more astonishing is that the luxembourg presidency’s original proposal was to cut research and development even more significantly. thankfully, this option was rejected by many states, including my own, which saw the clear link between research and development and the growth and competitiveness of the eu. this policy area was revisited by the uk presidency, which put forward proposals for increasing spending. i very much welcome the increase, but i lament, as i said earlier, that it is nowhere near the amount requested by the commission and parliament. the launch of this programme presents us with a real opportunity to learn from and correct past mistakes. one area upon which we need to focus our efforts is that of reducing the duration of funding procedures. the present procedure is ridiculously long. it is not just organisations in my region in the west midlands which have witnessed this: the european court of auditors reported delays of between eight and nine months. this is unacceptably long and it has to be drastically reduced. the lengthy procedure causes many problems. not least of these is the necessity for a long pre-financing by participants. it is an issue we need to address urgently. moving on, late payments are particularly detrimental to smes. in this house we are constantly talking about smes that we want to support, and they are the fundamental driver of growth in the eu. however, their budgets are hard pushed to cope with such delays. yet the commission tells us that smes, as i said, must be targeted and actively encouraged to get involved. perhaps before we try to encourage them, we should ensure that we do not actually discourage them. therefore, please make the payments promptly. the late payments also call into question the principle of annuality. since the commission has acknowledged these problems, i would strongly urge it to prioritise resolving them. the commission must ensure that it evaluates, selects and awards funding in an efficient and effective way. moreover, in order to plan properly, participants need to know in advance the date on which the decision will be taken. this can be achieved only if future methods and procedures are simplified to speed up selection. this would lead to a much more coherent approach, it would avoid unnecessary bureaucracy for participants and speed up the negotiation of selected proposals. it would also lead to increased transparency by facilitating access to the programme to the very many organisations that i have mentioned before. one barrier to this is the double verification system. the commission should set up a single verification and certification system and adopt and publish specific rules that can be seen to be clear and fair to all the interested parties. in view of this badly needed simplification of access to funding, i support the proposals of the committee on budgets to create a database for the submission of applications and encourage the commission to apply the principle of proportionality as regards the documents it requires. however, i would also urge the commission to pay attention to the way the programme is controlled. control mechanisms need to be coordinated and, as i have said, we must avoid unnecessary duplication and ensure that the overall cost of control is proportional to the benefit that it brings. in conclusion, let me remind the commission and the council that this programme is supposed to be for the benefit of the citizens and to promote scientific excellence across the european union. i do not think that, in view of this, we should try and make all the applicants jump through hoops to participate. on the contrary, we should rapidly award funding to those in europe who show real innovation and initiative and help them to discover new funding opportunities to increase our competitive advantage vis-à-vis the other areas of the world. as i and all my colleagues have said, everyone recognises the vital role that research and development play in helping the european union face the challenges presented by the rapidly developing economies of china and india. for this reason, i would strongly urge the commission to put every euro this programme has been granted to the most effective use possible and ensure that there is a one hundred per cent implementation rate. finally, i would also call on our leaders in the council to look beyond the eu borders and compare ourselves with other areas in the rest of the world and try and revisit this policy to increase resources sooner rather than later.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i feel rather humble in the presence of this galaxy of rapporteurs and draftsmen. i understand some kind words were uttered earlier this evening and i should like to reciprocate by thanking the commissioner, the presidency and my colleagues, the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs, for their very constructive engagement in this project. we have worked very hard and i like to think that we have pressed the council and the commission to concede a little more than they would like and perhaps not as much as we would like: that is good business. i share some colleagues’ regrets that we were not able to persuade the council to dig deeper into our taxpayers’ pockets to increase expenditure on research. it is a pity that it did not match earlier rhetoric. i strongly hope the compromise package will be adopted tomorrow. it will give a powerful signal to the research community that we can carry out our business and have the legislation in place on time. the particular aspects of the framework that i find both new and exciting are the european research council and the concept of excellence, because we need both to enable ourselves to compete in the wider world. i welcome the encouragement for smes, early-stage researchers and for women in science, as well as the joint technology initiatives, especially for mr prodi. in conclusion, i should also like to thank another european union institution, namely the court of auditors, for its contribution to the work on the rules for participation in responding to our invitation to give an opinion. hopefully, as a result, we will have made participation in the framework research programme simpler, clearer and more accountable.
mr president, i just wanted to say how delighted i am that we are reaching a conclusion on this. science is crucial to the competitiveness of the european union. when you see the economic giants rising up in china and india and how many computer scientists are being produced in that part of the world, you know the challenge is on. the commission acknowledged this in its initial presentation of the financing it sought for this programme. it must be said that the council’s response was very disappointing, not the first time under the luxembourg presidency. thank goodness the brits were there to save the day and to increase the amount of money allocated to the science budget. it is crucial to acknowledge mr blair’s role in that. however, we must also recognise that it is still not enough: eur 50 billion is not enough for a seven-year programme for 27 countries. it is not a serious proposal. at the very least, member states need to work together much more constructively in terms of building that capacity, because it is crucial. i refer to what mr turmes said earlier. taking energy as an example, it is crucial to look at things like the technology platforms and the zero emissions platform. that is the kind of thing that will make a real difference to climate change. unless we allocate that kind of money and emphasise that link between science, the state and private sector, we will have no hope of addressing these issues. ideally, we would develop these things in the european union in order to roll them out to areas like china and really make a big difference. finally, on capacities, it is crucial that regions in the poorer areas of the community catch up, meaning it is essential to develop the capacities aspect of this programme further.
i am a firm believer in the results science can bring us through non-embryonic stem cell research. it needs to be supported. we need to ensure results. somatic stem cell therapies, which are those that use stem cells extracted from humans after they are born or from the umbilical cord and placenta, are at a tipping point. advanced trials in human subjects are showing promising results. these advances are found in a wide range of conditions including heart and liver disease, diabetes, blindness caused by cornea damage, brittle bone disease, cystic fibrosis, strokes, parkinson’s disease and multiple sclerosis, among others. therefore, it is my belief that it is in the best interest of the people we represent to ensure funding priority and stronger incentive be given to researchers capable of finding cures to diseases within the foreseeable future through the use of adult stem cells. furthermore, it is my belief that there should be a periodic review of funding to research which may or may not bring about results.
mr president, as coordinator for my group on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i particularly wanted to come here this evening to pay tribute to the team that has worked on this, mr hasse ferreira, who has led this with distinction, and particularly my colleague, mrs weisgerber, who has worked tirelessly together with mr hasse ferreira on this proposal. from the point of view of the internal market, this is an excellent example of how parliament can significantly improve a highly technical text. this may seem an abstruse and perhaps rather marginal sector, but as both the rapporteurs have pointed out this evening, we are talking about a total product range here: there is eur 5.5 billion in automotive pyrotechnics and eur 1.5 billion in fireworks. that is a very substantial market and their achievement has been extremely important, firstly in creating the internal market; secondly by improving standards for consumers and product-labelling, raising the whole standard of quality in the marketplace; and thirdly in improving the procedures. it is an indication of the fact that if parliament gets its act together and works in detail on technical improvements, it really can make a significant step forward, both for consumers and for the european economy. i thank all my colleagues concerned for making that possible.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the commissioner will not have long to listen to us, but very briefly, there are three rights: the right to treatment, the right to humane and effective treatment, and the right to be involved in decisions affecting one’s treatment. i look forward to seeing the commissioner’s proposals being brought forward very soon, in particular where mental health is concerned. with regard to the right to safe treatment and care, the fact that 10% of hospitalisations result in medical error; the fact that we have hospital bugs such as mrsa and clostridium difficile; the fact that we have too many needlestick injuries: these are all areas involving patient safety. that is a right that patients should have. as regards the right to safe patient mobility, the commissioner has said that he is bringing forward proposals in that area which we look forward to receiving. among the rights that he will include in that, i am sure, will be the rights to have proper checks on health professionals and on the facilities, hospitals and clinics to which people may be going.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – as we again approach world aids day, we commemorate, we remember friends and we resolve to do more. we are now commemorating 25 years of aids. we remember the 25 million fellow citizens who have died from aids and we think of the 40 million living with aids. many of them live in europe and many in neighbouring countries to the east, such as russia, kaliningrad and central asia, but two-thirds live in sub-saharan africa. we in the north have promised our support. we have earmarked money for this and then, all too often, lost it again. science advances, but we have not yet delivered. only 5% of hiv-positive children receive medical help. fewer than 10% of the 15 million aids orphans receive financial support. every year we have a resolution. a resolution is two things: a form of words and good intentions, or a determination to achieve those ends. we need to invest in research and trials for the development of aids vaccines. we need to invest in service delivery and education for drugs and therapies, in mothers and children, in preventative campaigns, in health and care professionals and in ngo support teams. we need to pull out all the stops to meet the un target of universal access to services, to treatment and to care by 2010, as the commissioner said. the year 2010 is not far away, but we are. (applause)
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, our funding for hiv/aids prevention is still running well below target, falling behind by something like usd 12 billion. therefore, as the commissioner said, there is an urgent need for more public and private funding in order to address the shortcomings. there is no single panacea for hiv eradication, but there has to be more education and more funding for vaccine research and for microbicides, which the commissioner mentioned. the development of a vaginal microbicide has to be our immediate priority, and it is predicted that it could be developed and used within five years. it is the only way for women to have real control over their own sexual health. it is a method that does not require the consent of a partner. in addition, aids treatments in the developing world will not, and cannot, be sustainable unless there is a supply of the newer versions of generic medicines, which are increasingly needed as drugs-resistant cases of hiv/aids become more frequent. that means we have to be much more audacious in the way we confront the patents that pharmaceutical companies continue to hide behind, making the price of treatment impossible to meet in many developing countries and under the kind of health systems my colleague, mr bowis, mentioned.
the availability of antiretroviral therapy does not just bring hope to aids sufferers themselves. it also transforms attitudes to aids in the wider population. the knowledge that effective treatment is available is a key factor in encouraging people to be tested for hiv. the more people are aware of their hiv status, the easier it is to control the spread of the disease. that is why it is particularly worrying that the price of new, improved and second-line aids medicines remains prohibitively high. it is good news that the price of some established first-line aids drugs has come right down, but figures from south africa and malawi indicate that up to one in six patients will need to switch to newer drug combinations within three to five years. what can the commission do to persuade pharmaceutical companies to register their newer drugs in developing countries and make those newer drugs available at affordable prices? failing that, we will soon be back to square one. the drugs that still work will be unaffordable and donors, including the eu, will effectively be donating to the pharmaceutical industry.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am pleased to have been given the opportunity to be parliament’s rapporteur on the disability action plan. i worked closely with disabled people’s organisations, the commission and fellow meps, and i should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs very much for their cooperation. i should also like to thank the secretariat and i extend my special thanks to the european disability forum. i also sought advice from another 100 disability organisations across the european union. i sincerely hope the report reflects the fact that it was produced not just by me but by the whole committee. i welcomed the commission communication, but i felt there were some areas that could be strengthened. with regard to employment in particular, it is essential first and foremost to implement existing legislation, particularly the 2000 employment directive. i know the commission is monitoring that closely. however, certain grey areas need to be clarified, such as reasonable accommodation or reasonable adjustment. it is also vital that trade unions inform people of their rights under anti-discrimination legislation. however, whatever we do in terms of employment, it is of little use to disabled people unless they have access to the built environment or to transport facilities. that is why one of my demands is further legislation on bus and coach travel, similar to that for air travel. i know the commission is looking at that as well. education and training are also the key to integration. i have always said that member states should work towards including children in mainstream education wherever possible, but, at the same time, recognising that some children may not thrive in that atmosphere, especially if there is no proper back-up. children’s needs must come first. we also have to address access to information technology. that means accessible websites. at the moment, 80% of public websites are not accessible and we must ensure all documents are in accessible formats, particularly commission and eu documents. we must also ensure that disabled children and adults have access to sporting facilities. however, one of the most important areas is the deinstitutionalisation of disabled people, but this needs a sufficient level of community-based quality services. we must also destigmatise people with mental health problems. when we talk about disability, we must remember that we are talking about all forms of disability: people with mobility problems, hearing impairments, visual impairments, mental health problems, learning disabilities, chronic illnesses and other, hidden, disabilities. that is why i called in my report for a definition of disability. i welcome the court of justice ruling of 11 july, but we must take this forward. another milestone was agreement earlier this year on the united nations convention on the rights of people with disabilities, for which i was parliament’s rapporteur. however, we must campaign now for the swift signing and ratification of the convention. we must also continue our campaign for a specific disability directive under article 13 to outlaw discrimination on access to goods and services. i make no apology for mentioning this repeatedly, and i have called for it in my report yet again. there is no point in paying lip service to disabled people’s rights. we have to continue the fight for all eu citizens, disabled or non-disabled, to be treated equally.
i join with the rapporteur in reiterating parliament’s support for a comprehensive non-discrimination directive on disability under article 13. the portuguese presidency promised it to us in 2000, as did the former commissioner for employment and social affairs in 2003. four years later and unless there is action, the commission will continue saying that there is a hierarchy of discrimination, which none of us can accept. secondly, i welcome the action plan’s emphasis on moving beyond employment rights to social care. i call on the commission to undertake this work with a genuine spirit and commitment towards an independent lifestyle for people with disabilities, to the right to personal assistance and to the right for disabled people and disabled children and their parents to choose mainstream provision, whether that is education or housing, not only employment. thirdly, we can do much more on the international front in external assistance. we claim to adopt a human rights approach to disability. let us do more within our human rights programmes worldwide. we have not done enough regarding the human rights of disabled people in assessing candidate countries for accession to the european union. we can do better in that area. we should not only move swiftly to ratify and sign the draft un convention on people with disabilities but work with third-country governments to make sure they do too. finally on ppe-de group’s amendment 5, i am outraged that the conservatives should try to withdraw the part of my text suggesting that the commission should be required to monitor the participation of people with disabilities in their programmes. we should not just talk about participation, we should make it happen. the ppe-de group should withdraw that amendment.
madam president, the european union is a society of shared values. one way by which we judge our success as a society is how we address the issues facing the most vulnerable members of our society. last year, as rapporteur on the commission paper on demographic change, i was invited to speak at a special conference on disability in graz during the austrian presidency. the banner on the platform behind me said simply: leben wie andere auch – to live the same as other people. in english the translation of the word ‘leben’ is not just ‘to live’ but ‘to have a life’, and it should be the aim of our society to help all members of society to live and to have a life like every other member of society. uk conservatives are not persuaded that we need more eu legislation to secure this aim, but we do believe that we need the whole of society to embrace it. we need not just a welfare state, but a welfare society, in which communities recognise their responsibilities for the support of all members of those communities. governments cannot do everything, but they can become enablers of individual choice, helping people with disabilities to do what they themselves want to do by removing the barriers that stand in their way – barriers in education, employment or simply in getting from a to b. governments can also promote and enable a culture of independence rather than dependence. support for people with disabilities is not just about care: it is about support for their desires to fulfil their lives and to live in the same way as other people. we welcome this thoughtful own-initiative report on this important subject, we shall of course be supporting it, and we congratulate the rapporteur.
(beginning of speech off-microphone) … particularly what the commissioner was just saying about how close together the parliament and the commission are in terms of disabled people’s rights. commissioner, you talked about the accessibility of services. of course, we can only have accessibility of services if we have a specific disability directive. i am pleased that richard howitt and many other members brought that up as well. i would like some sort of commitment today as regards a timescale of when you might be bringing that forward, commissioner. i welcome what you were saying about structural funds. it is very important that we have a disability criterion in the structural funds. i am very pleased that it is in there now. one of the members here also talked about mainstreaming. it is very important that we should have that. mrs tzampazi, thank you very much for all your support and work. we have worked very closely on this. it is very right to talk about the european year of people with disabilities and to build on that. unfortunately, i have not had enough time to talk about education and training. there are so many points that i would like to mention, but really the bottom line is a specific disability directive.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, just for a moment i should like to test our wonderful interpreters. ‘european union entrepreneurship’ is an oxymoron, is it not? the whole raison d’être – if i may lapse into the vernacular of this place – is to stifle small business. rule upon rule, regulation upon regulation are generally made by people with no commercial experience at all. i went through the list of over 700 meps just yesterday, and i could not find more than about 5 people who had bona fide business experience. the commissioners go on the microsoft yacht for their holidays, the british prime minister has close relations with lord browne of bp, and so on and so forth, but that has nothing whatsoever to do with business. business in western europe is millions upon millions of small businessmen and women living a life of quiet desperation, trying to put their livelihoods together. small businesses account for over 52% of the uk’s gdp. you tell us in this place what age we may recruit at; you tell us what colour they may be; you tell us how much leave they must have; you tell us how much their pensions will be. it goes on and on. if we really wanted to get this place sorted out and we really wanted entrepreneurship, i would suggest that we only have commissioners and meps who have actually done an honest day’s work in their lives. there are none! (applause from the public gallery)
madam president, i wonder how many people in this chamber have had an idea for a new business, raised the money themselves at their own risk and successfully run that business for 20 more years and generated jobs and wealth. i see that not a hand goes up, and yet here we have a commission talking about authorising entrepreneurs and about level playing fields – which is the most fundamental contradiction of the world ‘entrepreneur’ you could possibly imagine. the whole point about entrepreneurship is creating something that nobody has ever thought of before. there sits the commissioner talking about criminalising the use of imperial measurements on exports from the uk after 2009. as a consequence of that, the manufacturers of tyres, bicycles, clothing, medical equipment, dairy products, frozen foods, specialist papers, domestic appliances, hand tools, computer components and oil and gas components will all suffer, every single one of them. one of them in my constituency will be faced with going out of business because there is no way he will be able to sell his components to the oil and gas industry in the united states. they are not going to pull their drill up thousands of feet just to check a measurement – no way! he will either become a criminal to stay in business or he will go out of business. years ago i walked into the office of one of the biggest industrialists in the united states and behind him was a notice that said: ‘if you are not part of the solution, you’re part of the problem, so get out of the way!’ that is a message i commend to this house.
i am not aware of any particular reason why there should be additional security measures, but we shall check and inform the house. thank you for that observation, mr henin.
the next item is the vote. i have had a request from a number of members, who have unavoidable commitments that will prevent them from being here for the whole of the vote, that the votes on mr van orden’s report on bulgaria and mr moscovici’s report on romania be moved up the list. i therefore propose that we take the votes on the bulgaria and romania reports after the simplified procedure votes. are there any objections to that change in the voting order?
thank you, mrs harms. we take the point, but i do not want to reopen the debate now. - after the vote on amendment 2:
rapporteur. – mr president, i tried to take the floor before we voted on that last vote. you gave the floor to someone that was opposing the position which the rapporteur had taken on this particular issue. it was quite wrong to say that there was anything here going against the accession treaty. all we were asking for was more flexibility on this issue. in view of that, i would ask that we do indeed vote on amendment nine.
i know the vote was very close, mr van orden, but i do not think what mrs harms had to say affected the outcome of the vote. i think the reaction of the house to her remarks indicates that everybody knew what she was going to say. i do not propose to reopen the vote, though. that would be wrong. i am sorry about that, and i apologise for not having seen your hand up. however, on the other hand i do not think we can change the vote.
rapporteur. – mr president, we are not asking to reopen the vote, we are asking to vote on the text that we have in front of us. i am afraid that the intervention did in fact influence things as regards that particular amendment. the difference was only three or four votes. i really think that we should give the house the opportunity to vote on the other amendments as put forward there.
i take the point, mr van orden, but i am afraid we cannot reopen it. it was a roll-call vote and it was a clear result, even though it was close. even if the chair has some flexibility when it is a show of hands, i am afraid in these circumstances it is not possible to reopen it. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – i just wish to inform the house that the compromise package of amendments, which is in the first block, and amendment 15 represent a hard-negotiated compromise with the council and the commission. i would urge colleagues to vote for the package and against any other amendment, irrespective of its content or merits, because we have an agreement that will enable the framework programme to go forward and be implemented in january. adopting any other amendment might put that at risk by reopening the procedure, which would be a matter of great concern to the research community. (applause)
thank you, mrs breyer. the position is simple. mr casini has withdrawn his amendments; he has made his political statement. mr prodi and mr busquin have made their positions clear. everybody understands that it is the wish of the house to proceed on the basis of the block votes, and that is what we shall now do.
mr president, as sometimes happens, a few words get lost in the negotiations or between them and the printed word, and with the support of all the groups involved, i should like to move the addition after paragraph 19 of the following new paragraph: ‘calls for greater investment in the development and provision of paediatric formulations for children;’.
rapporteur. – mr president, the english version of paragraph 40 should apply. apparently there were problems with the french and spanish translations of ‘moving away from the institutionalisation of people with disabilities’. in english ‘moving away’ does not mean ‘abandon’ but a gradual approach. in paragraph 47, ‘community assistance for reconstruction, development and stabilisation (cards)’ should be replaced with ‘instrument for accession (ispa).’
that concludes the vote.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by ingo friedrich today as it contains positive elements such as the monitoring and reporting procedure to review every six months what has been done to ensure that the multilingual way of working in the european parliament extends to the full range of official and working languages. however, i view with regret the delays and restrictions on what will be possible in irish in the time ahead. this disappointment stems not from the role of mr friedrich but from the fact that the necessary preparatory work was not done by the irish government or the eu institutions. i will continue to press for the restrictions on what can be done through the medium of irish to be lifted.
in writing. sinn féin supports the upwards harmonisation of human rights standards in europe and accordingly supports the principle of creating an agency for fundamental rights. for this reason we supported the report of ms gal and ms. kósáné kovács. we do have concerns however about the possible duplication of roles given the established role of the council of europe in these matters. the shift of power from the council of europe to eu level is also something we are not entirely comfortable with. as the agency is to be built upon the existing european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, the work of the agency should continue to cover the phenomena of racism. an eu agency for fundamental rights should tackle discrimination on a systematic basis rather than on a case-by-case basis as is the case with the council of europe.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues support strongly the principle of upholding and developing human rights. however, if the experience of its predecessor, the eumc, is anything to go by, this agency will not help in the achievement of these worthy goals, having shown in the past that it is susceptible to political manipulation. more seriously, the inspiration for the agency is the charter of fundamental rights, which has no legal status pending the entry into force of the proposed european constitution, something to which we are wholly opposed in principle. in addition, we cannot support the creation of this new agency as we are opposed to creating new agencies when the case for them has not been made. taxpayers in the european union have the right to expect parliamentarians to have a clear understanding of the costs of establishing new european agencies. we are not convinced that this important matter has been given the due consideration it deserves.
in writing. i will not be supporting this report. i support the idea that bulgaria should be able to join the eu, but i do not believe at this point in time either that they are really ready for membership or that the union is ready to receive them. this is only made worse by the attitude of the bulgarian authorities towards the rights of minorities or judgments of the european court of human rights. i realise there is little to be done at this stage, but unfortunately feel my position will be justified by future events. yet this is not a vote against free movement of eu citizens. when they join on 1 january they should have the same rights as everyone else.
in writing. i voted for the van orden report. i was pleased parliament resisted attempts to water down the bulgarian obligation to close units 3 and 4 of the kozloduy nuclear power station. this is clearly part of the accession treaty commitment.
in writing. too far, too fast! i will not be supporting this report. i support the idea that romania should be able to join the eu, but i do not believe at this point in time either that they are really ready for membership or that the union is really ready to receive them. this is made marginally worse by their attitude to international adoptions. i realise that there is little to be done at this stage, but unfortunately feel my position will be vindicated by future events. yet this is not a vote against free movement of eu citizens. when they join, as they will on 1 january, they should have the same rights as everyone else.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the accession of romania. i believe the romanian authorities have to do more to bring order to the system of international adoptions of romanian children, but this is not an issue that should delay membership.
in writing. although the british conservatives support cultural and linguistic rights for ethnic minorities, including hungarian minorities, throughout the eu, we are concerned that invoking the principle of subsidiarity and self-governance for the hungarian minority in romania could set a precedent for forcing member states to abandon their unitary constitutional arrangements. subsidiarity under article 3b of the treaty on european union remains the legal basis for returning powers from the eu to the member states whenever possible. it remains a sovereign right of each member state to determine how powers, including self-governance, should be devolved internally on an ethnic, religious, linguistic, or territorial basis.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party supports this resolution and would like to echo the congratulations and welcome given to both bulgaria and romania ahead of accession on 1 january 2007, whilst underlining the importance of adhering to commitments made in the accession treaty. this includes the closure of plants 3 and 4 of kozloduy nuclear power station before the end of 2006. the eplp would also like to emphasise that the eu is founded on clear principles of human rights, and therefore it is essential for all member states and acceding countries to respect minority rights and the decisions of the european court of human rights.
in writing. i welcome this report. i will vote in favour. europe’s future lies with high technology, where we can compete with the rest of the world by being the best in the world. i would have preferred ever more resources and a set of programmes closer to the market, but at least the union is moving in the right direction. i do support, with safeguards, research using human embryonic stem cells and i support framework 7 resources being spent on this research.
in writing. i am pleased that the industry committee has managed to reach a consensus with the council and commission to allow the framework programme to be adopted before the end of the year. i hope the reality of the 7th programme will be better than the 6th. my contacts with users and potential users of eu research funds suggest that many, probably a majority, find the administrative burdens attached to utilising the money off-putting, cumbersome and often disproportionate to the benefits of obtaining funding.
in writing. the market in fireworks is characterised by problems relating to the quality of imported products, their safe handling, safe storage and their condition of manufacture. i voted for this report and welcome the moves towards improving the safety of fireworks and their use. far too many people (particularly young people) suffer burns and scars because of faulty fireworks or mishandling.
in writing. i will vote against this report, mainly because i believe iter to be an example of ‘big science’ that wastes money that would be best put to other r&d projects that would do far more for eu competitivity and energy self-sufficiency than this enormous ‘boondoggle’. for more than half a century fusion was to deliver ‘tomorrow’, but the day has never come.
in writing. the british socialist delegation (eplp) voted in favour of the cavada report and the ep's resolution on the progress made in the eu towards the area of freedom, security and justice (afsj) (articles 2 and 39 of the eu treaty) because we support any actions to improve the transparency and effectiveness of the eu institutions and their capacity to deliver for our citizens in the field of justice and home affairs. whilst we welcome the ep's demand on the importance of launching a wide debate on how to improve our effectiveness in this field, both procedurally and in practice, we nevertheless recognise and respect the significance for member states in council of agreeing how best to take this agenda forward. it is imperative that any procedural decisions which would affect issues of national sovereignty are given full and serious consideration before any decisions are taken. this debate should involve national parliaments and the european parliament as well as the member states in council and the commission.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution on the fight against aids. hiv/aids transcends all borders and knows no limitations. it is relentless in its global spread, infecting over 450 people every hour, totalling more than 4 million people per year. in 2005, 40 million people were living with hiv, approximately 95% of them in developing countries, placing an impossible burden on the health system and economy in general. hiv/aids is perhaps the greatest threat to attaining the millennium development goals. i believe the number-one objective for the scientific community and pharmaceutical industry today is finding a vaccine for aids. such a discovery would allow us to imagine a world without aids.
in writing. i voted for this excellent report. disabled people have the right to be in a position where they can make the same individual choices and have the same control in their everyday life as non-disabled people. this clearly emphasises the need for an environment that enables disabled people to be as independent as possible. the recommendations in this report, if implemented, would take us a long way down that worthwhile road.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 12.20 p.m.)
mr president, there is a slight mistake in tuesday’s agenda regarding commission question time. according to the english version, question time starts at 6 p.m. and goes on until 7.30; in the french version, it starts at 6.30 and goes on until 7.30. so either our french colleagues are being deprived of half an hour of questions, which is not very fair on them, or the french agenda is correct and we are all being deprived of half an hour of questions, which is not very fair on us. perhaps you could explain.
mr president, i apologise for not being here when you first called me. a number of years ago, i, along with other members of this parliament, was involved when europe provided funds for a study into having a ferry service between ballycastle in county antrim, northern ireland, and campbeltown in scotland. the study was dutifully carried out, proved to be good, and the ferry service started and ran for a short time. the scottish parliament agreed to provide gbp 700 000, with the northern ireland executive being prepared to provide gbp 300 000, making a total of gpb 1 million as a seedling grant to get the service up and going. now we find that, while the scottish executive is prepared to honour its position and to pay the money up front, the direct-rule minister, maria eagle, is refusing to honour her side of the agreement. that is totally unacceptable and wrong. i have raised this with the secretary of state and with commissioner barrot and i want to pursue it as far as possible.
mr president, i rise to draw attention to the continuing plight of the west papuan people. just a week or so ago was west papua independence day, which is traditionally held on 1 december to mark the anniversary of the dutch promise to grant independence to west papua, a promise originally made in december 1961. of course, that independence never came and instead there has been a continuing military occupation by indonesia for over 40 years, with torture, disappearance, detention without trial and murder of west papuans at the hands of the military being commonplace. i am calling on you, president, as well as the commission and council, to raise the issue of west papua’s self-determination with the relevant indonesian authorities, and for them to do all they can to ensure the withdrawal of the indonesian military from west papua and the holding of a free and democratic referendum on self-determination, including all the indigenous west papuans. a number of colleagues have put down a written declaration for this session to coincide with independence day for west papua, and i urge my colleagues here to co-sign that written declaration.
mr president, my constituent david wilson was jailed in 2003 because illegal migrants had hidden in the back of his lorry at a greek port. he was charged and sentenced within 24 hours under a fast-track procedure, without sufficient legal advice, with a local shopkeeper as an interpreter, and without advice from the british embassy. as he was totally innocent he was acquitted on appeal, but not before suffering the horrendous ordeal of months in prison far from his family and the permanent loss of his job. he never recovered from that and tragically took his own life last month. that tragedy would never have happened if the eu’s framework decision on procedural rights and criminal proceedings for people charged in other member states had already been in force. that proposal would guarantee that anyone facing criminal charges abroad has access to their country’s consular services and is given qualified legal advice. that was all lacking in his case. i would urge the council to get a move on and adopt that proposal as a matter of urgency.
mr president, i seek your assistance. on 17 october i tabled a priority written question to the commission on the subject of animal testing under reach. i did not ask the question for the good of my health; i asked it so that we could have information, before the vote this coming week, about the number of animals likely to die as a result of the reach testing process. i should have had a reply, i believe, by 18 november. i am told that it is held up somehow in the commission’s services, which some might regard as convenient for the commission and an exercise in news management. these figures are likely to be distressing to those concerned about the testing of animals. i would seek your assistance in obtaining a response to that question before wednesday’s vote.
mr president, this summer the russian state duma introduced two laws allowing action to be taken against russian and non-russian citizens abroad. authorised by a decision of the president of the russian federation, euphemistically named ‘special assignment units’ of the federal security services may be used against so-called terrorists or those who have allegedly libelled the state. those laws are a licence to kill, and the first public execution of a british citizen was carried out last month when alexander litvinenko was poisoned and died in london. however, the murder was bungled and a radioactive evidence trail stretches from london to moscow. tony blair’s reaction was to say that nothing must come between britain’s relations with russia. the russians’ reaction was to say that no suspect, whatever the evidence, will be extradited to britain. but the reaction of the world must be to exclude russia from the civilised community of nations until its international murder squads are no longer operational.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it seems such a calm conclusion to such a tempestuous debate. it is some seven years since reach was first announced to ministers at the environment council. remember the fears about all the impact assessments and the wild figures about how much reach was going to cost and the risk that this would lead to the european chemical industry disappearing from the shores of this continent and relocating in china. within this chamber there have been all sorts of parliamentary tactics to delay and destroy reach over the years, and here we are with a remarkable measure of agreement all round. perhaps in practice we have made some modifications. we are on the right track. i have high hopes for reach. i hope it will enable us to identify, control and replace chemicals that are detrimental to our health and environment. i hope it will be implemented without excessive difficulty, particularly for smes, at a cost that will not threaten the competitiveness of our industry. i hope it will stimulate the validation and development of alternative non-animal testing methods. i hope it will promote innovation within the industry and give europe a cutting edge in the world. i hope it will not lead to a transfer of jobs but instead will increase consumers’ confidence, here in europe and across the world, in the chemicals our industry produces. i hope that enough scientists will want to brave the dark winters of finland in order to ensure the european chemicals agency is the success we hope it will prove. i hope this is going to set a lead for the entire world, a regulatory regime that will be a benchmark for governments elsewhere. i hope the package we have agreed between us, with much assistance from the finnish presidency over recent months and of course with the guidance of mr sacconi, will firmly steer the industry towards substituting chemicals of high concern by safer alternatives and promote the development of such alternatives. i hope for all those things, but probably a lot of water still has to flow under the bridge before my hopes will be realised. there are a lot of imponderables. how will the european chemicals agency really interpret its remit and how will reach be defined in practice? only time will tell. i am not ecstatic about the result. i have accepted compromises that i would have preferred to have avoided. i would have preferred stronger emphasis on substitution. it was a terrible mistake that, right at the end of the negotiations, the council actually offered us the chance to incorporate hormone disruptors – endocrine disruptors – within the socio-economic categories – the substitution categories – and we as a parliament declined and settled for a review in six years’ time. that is astonishing! however, i do not agree with one spokesman for wwf, who recently denounced the final outcome of reach as a disgrace. on the contrary, it is very much a step in the right direction and, if our hopes are realised, it may prove to be one of the most significant measures this union has ever taken, of real long-term advantage both to our economy and our environment.
mr president, christmas has come early for the german chemicals industry because, by supporting this incredibly watered-down compromise, parliament will be giving the industry an early and unexpectedly large christmas present, rewarding them for the relentless lobbying which has successfully torn the guts out of this proposal. thanks to that lobbying and to compliant politicians, both from the council and among members of the ppe-de group in particular, dangerous substances will remain on the market for many years to come, even when safer alternatives already exist. i think that is going to be hard to explain to european citizens. it is a scandal that they will have waited 20 years in total for rules that will continue to allow hazardous chemicals to be used in everyday products, even when substitutes are readily available. it is also completely unnecessary: the second reading in the environment committee gave the rapporteur a clear mandate to push for mandatory substitution for all chemical substances of high concern when safer alternatives exist. and yet that was given away, negotiated out of existence. not only that, but the whole legislation will be shrouded in secrecy. it is completely unacceptable for key personnel in the agency that will implement this legislation to be able to keep their names and their declarations of interest confidential. that is outrageous, and it is extraordinarily ironic, too, that it comes at precisely the time when we are supposed to be convincing european citizens that the eu is open, transparent and accountable. how can we possibly be claiming that, and yet agree to confidentiality here? in the view of my group, parliament should have rejected the compromise deal and continued to press for a deal via a full second reading and conciliation. there is nothing in this package that we could not have achieved through conciliation, and much that we could have won. instead, we have had a process that is untransparent, undemocratic and very easily manipulated. my group has put forward two alternative compromise packages. that is not unrealistic, as some have said. in fact, what we are proposing is weaker than what parliament adopted in first reading, but it is still stronger than the pale and weak compromise on the table now. it is based precisely on the bottom lines that a majority in parliament have supported all through this process until the very last moment, but then chose to give up as a concession to the rest of the ppe. so, when you, mr sacconi, ask us what other mountain we want to climb, the answer is: the one that has been on all of our maps from the very beginning of this process, the one that you told us we were climbing, which you were leading us up so well and so masterfully, until at the very last minute you lost your step, you lost your footing, you took a wrong turn and now we are all put in peril. one final point on animal welfare. during the first reading in the environment committee, i tabled a completely non-animal test strategy, which was adopted. it did not survive the subsequent plenary vote, but it did send a very strong signal that we want much greater emphasis on non-animal alternatives. the promotion of non-animal tests is now one of the objectives of the reach regulation, and that is hugely important. it must not just be a gesture; it must be turned into a legal commitment to replace animal tests much faster than we have been doing. animal tests are not only cruel, they are inefficient, they are outdated and they are frequently misleading. replacing them as fast as possible is not just an issue of animal rights: it is an issue of human health and of human rights as well.
mr president, last month the lancet, the leading uk medical journal, published a report which spoke about a silent pandemic amongst children developing neurological disorders from exposure to industrial chemicals. there needs to be a lot more research on that. but we now have a chance to act on chemicals, and we should seize that chance. the compromise package agreed by parliament and the council is a very good one. i want to pay tribute to the skill of mr sacconi, our chief negotiator, who worked in an extremely transparent and collaborative manner throughout these negotiations. i reject the accusation that it was untransparent. he always reported back to his shadows and to the committee, and people were kept informed, much more informed than on other pieces of legislation. people have said that the compromise does not go far enough, that it falls short of perfection. it is not a perfect compromise. the greens and the gue/ngl group have said that they will not support the compromise, which does not surprise me. however, the point of politics is not to grandstand or to reject compromises and go down in glorious defeat and remain politically pure, but to make a difference and to bring about real change that affects real people. that is what this legislation will do. i heard people talking about mountains, but they are going to take us up mountains in the same way as sisyphus pushing a great big rock up the mountain. we would never get agreement and therefore nothing would ever happen, and back down the mountain we would roll. i saw the majorities obtained in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and there was no majority to get anything better than what we have on the table this evening. i agree with commissioner verheugen, who spoke about the need to make this legislation implementable, and i look forward to hearing what he is going to be doing and how we are going to work with the chemical industry and governments to ensure it works properly. by voting ‘yes’ to reach this week we can start to implement the legislation to get the agency up and running. i do not want to hang around waiting for miracle solutions some other day. i urge colleagues to vote ‘yes’ this week and make a difference, not just worry about making headlines.
mr president, our rapporteur, mr sacconi, spent a lot of his speech, like a mountain goat, going up and down mountains, taking us with him and telling us that when you get to the top you feel exhilarated. i have to tell him that most of us feel exhausted. however, he has led us gamely through 140 articles, 17 annexes and nine appendices of the reach proposals, and he can feel justifiably exhilarated to be bringing us towards a new, coherent system to identify and manage the risk of chemicals. it has been a long marathon. i am not sure whether you can have a marathon going up and down mountains, but if you could, it would probably take the nine years it is going to have taken once we come to april 2007 and put this in place. we have come a long way and we have had high ambitions, although not all of them have been met. that would explain some of the outbursts that he may have sensed behind him. however, what we have been seeking is to get the best possible ambition met. but we have to strike a balance – a balance between strong environmental and health protection, phased but comprehensive gathering of data on all chemicals, legal certainty, protection of intellectual property for businesses and minimising the need for animal testing through data sharing and the promotion and validation of non-animal test methods. that is a compromise, and that is where we are. at the heart of that compromise is substitution, and the authorisation procedures with their mandatory substitution plans will phase out chemicals of very high concern where safer, viable alternative substances and technologies exist. research plans will be required where they do not exist. we have made progress. i congratulate the finnish presidency on helping towards that. i regret that the british government pulled the rug from under the feet of the finnish presidency at one point, otherwise we might have achieved a little more. as has been said, the future is implementation. the future is what the market will do with this. i believe that the market will respond and lead the way as manufacturers, retailers and consumers push for safer alternatives. we will be looking to competitive business to provide those greener products that consumers want. we will also see movements towards non-animal testing through the three-year review that will come from the agency. it will soon be christmas. the best possible christmas present is a reach-free 2007. it will not be reach-free in the commission, but we will have a reach-free agenda in parliament. all the runners in this marathon deserve at least that respite!
(the speaker spoke irish) the original intention of the reach directive was to give proper protection for workers, consumers and the environment, while maintaining the competitiveness of european industry. it is deeply unfortunate that the chemical industry has succeeded in convincing so many meps that the highest standards of safety are not necessary. reach has been watered down to such an extent that the current proposals on the table are unacceptable. where safer substitutes exist for substances of very high concern, it is imperative that the former replace, and are substituted for, the more harmful substances. talk of substitution plans and adequate controls is not enough. similarly, there is a need for manufacturers to be transparent and open about which substances are present in their products. (the speaker spoke irish)
mr president, well, we are at it again. in my view, mr sacconi is not so much building a mountain as digging himself an enormous hole. may i say at this festive time that i hope he mixes his martinis as enthusiastically as he mixes his metaphors. whatever he says, we are talking of the regulation of over 30 000 substances, policed by another army of self-important inspectors who already suck at the teat of the overtaxed and over-regulated taxpayer. the extent of the regulation is bound to take the focus off relatively few instances where serious action is needed. yet again, we british see in this directive the advancement of the abandonment of the presumption of innocence, with no redress for damages for british businesses, not to mention the horrific experimentation on millions of animals, whatever you may try and persuade yourself. i certainly beg my british federalist colleagues, all of whom support this misguided legislation, for once to get up off their bellies and strike a blow for our own national civil law and against the sovietism of this place. we all know the effect of russian sovietism on russia’s own and the global environment.
rapporteur. – mr president, before turning to my own report, let me congratulate mr mitchell on his. as the house will know, these two instruments started life as a single instrument and the committee on development was correct to argue that they needed to be separated because we were mixing apples and pears. the development instrument essentially aims to promote the interests of developing countries. the economic instrument, the one i am responsible for, is about promoting – not exclusively, but mainly – the interests of the european union. it was therefore wrong that these two objectives should have been contained in a single instrument. the committee on development was correct to argue for a separate instrument and it was also correct to argue that it should be pushing hard for the european parliament’s involvement to at least be the same as it is under the plethora of existing instruments. so, i congratulate mr mitchell on his report. turning to my own report, it is small in importance compared with the other external instruments, but still a significant tool of this european union. it expands on the existing programmes, firstly in terms of geographical areas: the existing programmes cover just six countries, this new instrument will cover 17 countries. it is expanded in terms of objectives and, as one would hope with both the objectives and the geographical area being expanded, it is also expanded in terms of its budget. so, while it is the smallest of the external instruments, it is still a significant instrument. it focuses on furthering eu interests in industrialised countries and it builds on the highly successful executive training programme for japan and korea and the gateway to japan programme. both have been subject to a commission-financed study, which demonstrates that they have increased the access of european companies in both japan and korea and increased the awareness of the european community in those two countries and so are worthwhile in themselves. the new programme will have five key objectives: to build on public diplomacy and outreach; the promotion of economic partnership and business; people-to-people links, particularly through education; encouraging dialogues; and finally the evaluation of small-scale cooperation projects to assist small and medium-sized enterprises to get access to third country markets. these are all very worthwhile objectives. in terms of the committee on international trade’s approach, we have concentrated on three things. first, given that the scope of the programmes has expanded from 6 to 17 countries, we have insisted that there is room for differentiation within the programme – a one-size-fits-all approach would simply not work in a programme like this. i am glad to say that the commission has gone along with the idea that the programme should be country-specific, rather than a general programme for 17 countries. we have also tabled amendments to ensure that this programme is complementary to the other instruments that we will be adopting either today or at a later stage. again, given that the programme has expanded, we have insisted that there should be human rights and rule of law clauses in these instruments. again both the council and the commission have indicated a willingness to accept those amendments. i am also pleased to say that, despite this being only a consultation and not a codecision matter, unlike mr mitchell’s report, the council has agreed to attach the two interinstitutional agreements on budgetary discipline and democratic scrutiny. it has also agreed that parliament should be more involved in this programme than originally envisaged and has accepted that, if the scope of the programme is altered, either geographically or in terms of its objectives, parliament will be fully consulted. the commission has also agreed to bring forward multiannual planning for consultation with parliament on this. so the level of parliamentary involvement has been significantly increased. finally, let me conclude by saying that there is a chance that, if we adopt all the amendments today, this instrument will be adopted by the council in exactly the form that it leaves parliament. that is quite an achievement, given that it is only a consultation exercise. i would like to thank the commission for its excellent cooperation, and particularly the finnish presidency, which, on a relatively minor instrument compared to the other instruments, has been fully engaged in parliament’s work, has kept us fully abreast of its position and has made compromises. we have made compromises with the presidency. i think in the end we have got a very workable instrument and i would like to thank all the institutions for their cooperation.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i wish to thank the commissioner and to thank the rapporteur for all his work and cooperation on this report. the rapporteur and i often joke that we find very little to disagree on when it comes to international trade issues. when it came to shadowing this report, once again we found very little to disagree on, partly because the rapporteur is such an expert in this area and has dealt with it in a number of other reports. i should just like to repeat what good cooperation there was, and i have actually learnt quite a lot from him throughout this process. one day i will find something to disagree with him about, but for now let us look at the issues. we all agree that the proposal should be tightened and clarified. it is very important that we define the eu’s strategic interest, and i welcome the amendments adopted in committee to this end. we must also have consistency across the financial instruments. once again, the rapporteur and i had a number of discussions in this area, and i am very pleased that these were adopted. the other area is the review clause. it is very important to decide whether this instrument should be reviewed during the lifetime of this parliament or after the european elections of 2009 when new members come in. those new members will not have our expertise in this matter, and that is why i would have preferred to have seen a review within the lifetime of this parliament. finally, the report has got it right on human rights and democracy, especially when we are dealing with developed countries. let us hope that we can continue to pursue these goals within the framework of trade agreements and continue to work with our partners.
mr president, i rise to congratulate a number of my colleagues in the committee on development, and the rapporteur, gay mitchell, in particular, as well as my fellow coordinator, mrs martens, and all coordinators of political groups, for having conducted this matter over a period of two years to produce this result. why did it take two years, one might ask, given that what we have produced now could have been done in three months? it took all that time because of a very stubborn attitude from a member of the commission – a ‘commissar’, one might say – who was in a senior position in dg relex. it is only because the commissioners and the council recognise that the european parliament is a premier democratic institution, which must be able to criticise legislation and make it accountable. at a time when the european parliament and the european institutions are being seen to be remote from our citizens, for the commission, as it was then, to produce a piece of paper that took away the powers of the development committee and the european parliament to set development policy, was outrageous. it is only because parliament stood together as one, despite attempts by certain people to divide members and to have us at each other’s throats, that we succeeded in producing this. i want this on the record because, as a coordinator for the development committee, i can say we went through hell trying to get this thing passed in a way in which parliamentary scrutiny, parliamentary control of policy, parliamentary control of strategy papers, parliamentary control of time-limits on legislation and parliamentary control of specific instruments for development policy were all going to be very important. we must connect with our people, with our constituents, with our voters. to have the commission come in, as though it had come from moscow in the old soviet days, was absurd. i say thank you very much to the commissioners, mrs ferrero-waldner, in particular, and mr michel, for understanding that we have a democratic role to play.
madam president, the commission, the council and parliament have all talked much of better regulation and removing duplication. yet here we have a new groundwater directive not to consolidate or replace, but to supplement, the existing directives: the water framework directive and the nitrates directive. the overregulated farmer, instead of having one clear-cut directive with which to comply, has to contend with aspects of four directives on this subject. so, far from the promised rationalisation of legislation, we seem to be seeing more proliferation. as for the assurance that loss of income suffered by farmers as a result of restriction on farming practices can be offset under the rural development regulation, that is of no comfort in a country like the united kingdom, where a large part of the funding for rural development is coming from the farmers themselves, through top-slicing their single farm payments via the misnamed ‘voluntary modulation’.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the imminence of the accession of romania and bulgaria is underlined by today’s vote on the nominees for the posts of two commissioners and two members of the court of auditors. both meglena kuneva and leonard orban were deeply involved in the negotiations for their respective countries’ membership. each was dealt a tough hand of cards, especially if you think of the distance that each country has travelled on its road to membership. it proved tougher than expected and needed two years more than other countries emerging from the former europe. we must learn now to adapt our union to a wider membership – a fuller house – with inevitable family disputes. all must learn to give a bit if they are to take. whether we yet have a full house, of course, is still a matter for debate and maybe mr brok would enlighten us towards the end of this week? it is fitting that those who bore the burden of accession negotiations bear some of the fruit of their labours. mrs kuneva and mr orban have a great deal to contribute to europe. the depth of knowledge they have gleaned from the talks will stand them in good stead for their collegial decision-making on the upper floors of the berlaymont. whether they choose to play the queen of hearts or the ace of spades in president barroso’s house of cards is up to them, but i remain convinced that romania and bulgaria will be an asset to the union, and not a burden as some would have us believe. i know that some in this house are thinking of voting against one of the nominees for the court of auditors. if we are serious about bringing two countries into the union, let us be serious about bringing them in properly and not play games with the nominees. let me offer a word of advice to president barroso as he chews on how to use the talents of his two latest recruits: there are not enough jobs for 27 commissioners. that is why we supported the constitution’s provisions to slim the college down. please ensure that members of the commission act in the community interest and not as representatives of their home states; define their jobs clearly, more clearly than you have done in your letter to president borrell, allegedly ‘clarifying’ the role of intercultural dialogue. it has left many of us with more questions than answers. however, we wish you success. we wish the two new commissioners success and we expect that you will do the job we need to advance the cause of europe. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, today we are being asked to approve the nomination of european commissioners from bulgaria and romania. well, i do not approve. i voted against the accession of bulgaria and romania, as did many of my colleagues from the ind/dem group. my colleagues and i from the uk independence party were vilified in 2004 because we opposed the accession, but we did so for several reasons, not least that we are totally opposed to the european union’s empire-building because it is a thoroughly undemocratic organisation that undermines self-government. we also voted against it because we knew that there would be mass migration from some of the new member states to britain – a mass migration with which my country’s infrastructure cannot cope. two years later we have been shown to be right: an estimated 650 000 people came to britain from the accession countries during the first year of membership. furthermore, such has been the drain of skilled workers, that we now have the ridiculous situation in which the president of poland is putting out statements calling for his fellow countrymen to return to their homeland. will the eu empire-builders ever consider the immense social cost of their actions? we now stand at the cusp of a tragedy: two further countries, which have recently thrown off the yoke of communism and grasped their freedom, are about to throw it away by taking on the yoke of brussels, with all its suffocating bureaucracy and its relentless pursuit of power. it will not be many years before bulgaria and romania discover what a mistake they have made in subjecting themselves to the will of an intolerant european commission. it will be like exchanging an iron curtain for a vast curtain of paper, which could end up being almost as big a threat to civil liberties and prosperity as was its predecessor. freedom is indivisible. it should never be given up in the pursuit of economic gain, particularly when it has been won at such a high price. (applause)
mr president, may i just say in that regard that you do not only have the option of letting speakers speak for longer, you also have the option of taking additional speakers under the ‘catch the eye’ procedure, which is perfectly within the rules of procedure.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should just like to inform the house that not only have we achieved a separate instrument to promote democracy and human rights as a successor to the european initiative, against the original wishes of the council and commission, but we have managed to achieve all the objectives set by the european parliament. in reply to mr milinkevich this morning, it is true now that that instrument can have the capacity to operate within his country, without his country’s consent as mrs flautre says. moreover, this year i visited a number of what we call ‘difficult countries’ – china, cuba, even russia today, parts of the arab world – where the democracy backlash is moving in. i should like to read from the letter that mrs ferrero-waldner sent last friday to the rapporteurs and the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, mr brok: ‘this provision may also include working with democratic political partners in third countries, provided that the principle of impartiality towards such partners is respected. on the other hand, funding of political parties as such remains excluded from the scope of the draft regulation.’ so, mr president, this is part of the process of the moral politics that mr milinkevich talked about, but it is only part of it. we must do a lot more and not leave that field to the americans. (applause)
in writing. i voted in favour of the appointment of mrs meglena kuneva, the bulgarian commissioner designate. however, while i have no problem with the individual herself or with the appointment of a bulgarian commissioner, i have serious doubts about there being enough jobs for 27 commissioners. i look forward to a treaty change that significantly reduces the number of commissioners.
in writing. mr president, my party is keen on the continuing enlargement of the union, and we look forward to our bulgarian and romanian colleagues joining us. we have paid close attention to the confirmation process of our two new commissioners, and are satisfied that both are welcome additions to the college. i am pleased to support mrs kuneva's appointment today.
in writing. i voted in favour of the appointment of mr leonard orban as romanian commissioner. however, i very much regret that the nice treaty makes it necessary for us to have one commissioner per member state. i simply do not believe that there are enough serious jobs for 27 commissioners and look forward to a treaty reform along the lines of the draft constitution that significantly reduces the number of commissioners.
in writing. mr president, my party is keen on the continuing enlargement of the union, and we look forward to our bulgarian and romanian colleagues joining us. we have paid close attention to the confirmation process of our two new commissioners, and are satisfied that both are welcome additions to the college. i am pleased to support mr orban's appointment today.
in writing. i welcome the appointment of a bulgarian member of the court of auditors and am glad that this proved uncontroversial in the light of other difficulties.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr ispir despite allegations of corruption involving mr ispir being made in the romanian media. the committee on budgetary control could find no evidence to support these allegations in their hearing. mr ispir has also strongly denied any wrongdoing. on the evidence available the allegations against him appear to be politically motivated. however, if any evidence of wrongdoing emerges i would expect mr ispir to resign from the court.
in writing. i welcome this report which aims at the implementation of automated customs systems and of coordinated processes and services under both the current and future modernised customs code. the main objective of this decision is to determine what action needs to be taken for the achievement of a simple and paperless environment for customs and trade. this is highly laudable but i hope it does not prove to be a pious goal.
in writing. groundwater is a valuable natural asset and must be protected wherever possible. it also extremely awkward to treat for pollution, even when the source of pollutants has been removed. i broadly support the intentions of the new directive, which would help preserve scotland’s reputation of having a clean, unspoiled environment. there must be a balance, however, so that any new directive that is passed is not unnecessarily obstructive to farmers and agricultural business. for example, in 2003, scottish farmers faced groundwater charges when those in england did not. as long as this proposal does not produce extra bureaucracy or impractical demands for those who work around groundwater, then i think this directive is a worthy one.
in writing. i voted in favour of the klaß report on the protection of groundwater against pollution. i believe the report is now much stronger than the commission’s original proposal. we will now have more stringent rules to prevent or restrict inputs of hazardous substances into groundwater with a possibility to have even more stringent national measures. as regards nitrates, the provisions are now consistent with the water framework directive.
in writing. because the south-east of england has suffered so much from drought orders which have affected water usage by consumers, this directive is extremely important. some 70% of south eastern england's water comes from groundwater resources. protection of this resource, therefore, is essential to allow for both the capacity of such resources to recover as well as for nitrates and other chemicals to be excluded as far as possible from reaching the uk's drinking water. parliament has stuck steadfastly to its view that member state governments must do far more to prevent this type of pollution, such as arsenic, biocides and cyanide. parliament's approach to 'toughen up' the legislation in this field is very much welcomed.
in writing. the development cooperation instrument covers over eur 16 billion of development spending over the next financial perspective. the instrument is in two main parts – geographic and thematic. geographic spending covers the money that will be negotiated between the commission and partner countries through country strategy papers (csps) – almost eur 11 billion. i welcome the fact that parliament insisted in negotiations that social services, and particularly health and education, be prioritised by the commission when drawing up csps. parliament also got a commitment from the commission that 20 % of spending on geographic programmes would be on basic health and basic and secondary education – an important and longstanding priority of the socialist group.
in writing. conservative meps supported this report so as to facilitate a swift correction of directive 2002/2/ec by deleting, in line with the court of justice's ruling, the obligation for feed manufacturers to inform customers on request of the exact composition of compound feedingstuffs. the ecj ruled that this provision provided too little in the way of additional health protection to justify the serious impact on the interests of the manufacturers. however, we express our disappointment that the legal services of the institutions prevented elected meps from tabling more far-reaching amendments to this controversial piece of legislation. our intention was to amend as well the rules that currently require all feed materials in a compound feedingstuff to be indicated with a declaration of percentage by weight. we do not believe that exact percentages need to be disclosed and note that this goes beyond the provisions applicable to food for human consumption. in most cases, ingredient listing by weight is sufficient to protect both the interests of farmers and the trade secrets of the manufacturers. we expect the commission to take on board our concerns in its review of feed legislation programmed for next year.
in writing. i naturally voted in favour of my report on the financing instrument for cooperation with the industrialised countries and territories. as i said in the debate, this might in financial terms be the least significant of the new external instruments, but it will still involve a budget of around eur 22 million a year and cover our external actions with 17 important countries. i believe the amendments that parliament has approved will make the instrument more appropriate and effective in promoting the interests and values of the eu in these 17 heterogeneous countries. i would like to thank colleagues of all groups for their support in finding such a wide consensus.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, the commission and the rapporteur intended a slight liberalisation of advertising law. however, i believe it has been hijacked by extremists. here are some of the most damaging elements. a ban on advertising during children’s programmes means there will be fewer of them and the remainder will be of lower quality. jobs will be lost in the media and the toy industry. the ban also extends to news, documentaries, advisory programmes, theatre, opera, any form of sponsorship and product placement. the consequence will be to reduce revenue to the commercial media, bringing their very future into doubt. the right to short reporting – 90 seconds of someone else’s broadcast for free – will destroy commercial news and sports reporting. as you will see, i only have 90 seconds here. the ban on some foods would be better addressed by working with the food industry to improve its products and safeguard jobs, rather than blaming the advertising industry for something it does not control. a ban on advertising alcohol will not stop people drinking. prohibition did not stop it in the usa. the directive seeks to use the country-of-origin principle to solve differences between member states, yet it undermines that very principle. it will not work. i have time here for one example. many swedish media companies have been based in britain to enjoy our employment laws. they are subject to british law, but they broadcast into sweden. sweden has more stringent child protection laws than the uk. it is justifiably unhappy. the ind/dem group and ukip back sweden’s right to decide what happens on swedish territory and equally britain’s rights on uk soil. the directive offers no solution, only an ongoing problem. i have introduced amendments to reject the commission proposal. moderate members will support this.
madam president, president reagan famously said, ‘if it moves, tax it. if it keeps moving, regulate it. and if it stops moving, subsidise it.’ i suggest to the house that this is the anti-business approach of the european union when it comes to the television industry, especially with regard to regulating the industry. we have here one of the most competitive industries that exists. people in the industry fight to gain viewers, they fight to hold viewers and so, except in special cases, for example involving children, there is simply no need for regulation. the operators are already working as hard as they can to make sure that what they present is attractive to viewers. the second piece of damage that this proposal will do is to innovation. inevitably, what we are doing here is setting today’s technology in stone. none of us in this chamber knows what will happen next year or the year after; we are creating, therefore, a barrier to innovation and we should reject the whole proposal.
first of all, my thanks to mrs hieronymi, mrs rühle and mr greg paulger from the commission for all their excellent work. i probably got greg into trouble there, but thank you very much for all your work. there were a few issues that i had great concerns about right at the beginning. one was the extension of scope. i would like to see no extension of scope, because i worry about regulating services that do not yet exist, but i am very happy with the compromise that we have reached. i am also very happy with the work that was done by the rapporteur in recognising the role of self-regulation. we have to recognise that product placement exists. there are examples of german car companies that have gone outside germany and placed their cars in an american programme that is shown back in germany, and that has led to a lot of revenue, not only for european producers, but also for european agencies. let us realise that there is a world outside the eu. when it comes to advertising breaks, in a world of multi-channelled tv with thousands of channels and hundreds of devices, we should leave this to the market. if you over-advertise, people will switch off. finally, we need to make sure that we have a strong country-of-origin principle. we must not allow the enemies of the single market to win their arguments.
madam president, we know that revenue from advertising through traditional media has been reduced, so the equation is simple: if we do not allow more revenue for traditional tv to be earned, then all hopes of quality productions, documentaries and cultural vibrancy are lost. i believe in the market power of the ‘off’ button. advertisers will not pay for unseen adverts and viewers will not watch unacceptable tv; but unacceptability refers as much to the standard of programmes as to the excessive presence of advertising, so we are back to my original equation. on balance, allowing advertising breaks in programmes scheduled for 30 minutes is both practical and essential, as is cautious product placement. on short news reports, we have been very exercised by sports events. we need to take care with our words so as to allow some reasonable inclusion in general news programmes, while noting that public interest does not extend so far that on a day-to-day basis it undermines the value of copyright or other exclusive rights that have been purchased.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would be grateful if you could add my time to the time that i was given before, so that, on behalf of the alde group, we have two minutes. i would like to apologise for mr cappato’s absence. he has had a personal emergency and, therefore, i am speaking on behalf of the group. i would like to thank the council and the commission for their hard work, and i am glad we have moved away from just a list of countries where human rights abuses take place. i am pleased that there is a section devoted to the european parliament this time. i find it difficult, however, that when we are talking about human rights in the subcommittee, we are told that we cannot look at abuses within the eu. i know that is covered by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, but we must find a way of bringing together what we are doing in the committee on civil liberties and the subcommittee on human rights. one area where we need to be more proactive is the use of cluster bombs. i know a lot of people say it is a defence issue, but i think it is also a human rights issue. although it is not covered by the 1997 treaty on landmines, it still has the same devastating effect on civilians. i call on the council and the commission to join the growing opinion that cluster munitions should be banned completely, and i hope that the rumours that the commission is going to reduce funding for mine clearance are inaccurate, because it is a human rights issue if people cannot move around freely. another concern, which is mentioned in the report – and i am very pleased about that – is the continuing existence of the guantánamo bay detention camp, an issue we have raised many times over the last year. can the council, in particular, give an assurance that it will step up its efforts to put pressure on the american government to close it down once and for all, which is, indeed, what parliament has called for? i am pleased also that trafficking in human beings has been fairly high on the eu agenda, but pressure must be put on those member states that have not already done so to sign up to the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings. finally, i am pleased that we have a section in the report on disabled peoples’ rights. this is timely as, tomorrow, as you are very well aware, the signing of the un convention on people with disabilities will take place. let us hope that it is speedily ratified.
mr president, i would like to start by congratulating the finnish presidency, both for its work on human rights and for attending this plenary. one of our aims has been to make this part-session a ‘human rights plenary’ every year. on this, the day the sakharov prize was awarded, the finnish presidency has honoured its role, and i believe every other presidency will now follow suit. at the same time, i would like to thank the presidency for taking on board a number of points which i suggested as a former rapporteur for human rights. the references to the european parliament are more numerous this year, and it has been involved more closely. i look forward to that developing still further in the future. the list of countries for priority action in your report very much matches my suggestions for the list of european countries of concern, which some people said was outlandish, but which you have adopted. i wish to thank the presidency for that too. i would have liked to have seen more on the impact and implementation of the eu guidelines on human rights – there was just one page in 260 – but very much welcome the transparency of having a list of demarches relating to different countries. however, i would ask the presidency to recall the suggestion made by parliament in my own report that a group of meps should become available for confidential consultation on those demarches in much the same way as for security issues. i would ask the presidency to consider that issue again. in conclusion, i would ask both this and future presidencies, together with the commission, to bear in mind the need to undertake impact analyses, and to look not just at the direct work done on human rights, but also at the human rights impact of other external policies, particularly those on trade and development, so that we can mainstream human rights into all the european union’s work. it is not just one report that counts, but what that report represents.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to draw the strands together as this will hopefully be our last debate on the 2007 budget. i should also like to welcome the council and its representatives, who have been somewhat confused at some points in our procedure, which has led to misunderstandings that we hope will be clarified before we come to the final vote. i should like to thank the commissioner very much for all the support she has given to most of parliament’s ideas. her support has been very helpful during this procedure. i thank my colleagues on the committee on budgets for their support and input into this procedure, but above all i should like to thank the committee on budgets staff who have enabled all of this to be put together. without them i do not think we would be at this stage in the proceedings. at this juncture i should like to raise a couple of points as general rapporteur. not only have we been able to achieve – i believe it will be clarified that we have achieved this – the substantive negotiation on the financial regulation, which my colleague mrs gräßle will deal with in a moment or two, but we have been able to establish in our way of doing things for the 2007 budget a very prudent approach on payments below the 1%, largely because we are at the stage of having new programmes for the financial perspective. there are no particular requests or demands from the groups or committees. that is something we can no doubt expect in future years. so basically we re-establish the pdb, but with emphasis on our political priorities concerning research innovation where we have had additional appropriations. secondly, we have taken what i would call a sensible approach to the use of the reserve. often in this house we have been able to put particular funds on reserve at first reading, but perhaps the conditions for release or the way in which this has been approached have not been sensible or coherent. here there are three examples that i would like to mention where i believe the conditions for release and the policy for reserve use have actually been helpful in strengthening parliament’s position in the budget process. firstly, i would cite the common foreign and security policy where we have a much clearer definition of what we gained in the interinstitutional agreement. we would very much hope now that the council will hold to this, as we have had a very clear exchange of letters and we should not then have the same misinterpretation in the 2008 budget. secondly, on the question of staff, here too parliament has been able to provide a way of sensibly dealing with that process, rather than what might have been an immediate surge – as the council wanted – of productivity gains but maybe not achieving very much. we have been able to ask the commission – and it has agreed – for a proper screening process to be established by 30 april 2007 so that we can have a substantive justification for staff increases over the next few years. that will be very welcome as part of the conditions for release of the staff reserve will be a statement from the commission in february next year. so we will know exactly what the legislative programme for the union will be in february 2007. last but not least in the use of the reserve is the question of value for money. we had an excellent discussion and debate on 15 november at our last session with the commissioner and the secretary-general, who came to show exactly where we had taken lines in reserve and where we could now release them. we have very few of those lines left available now. that has been a very useful process in getting a much better perception as to where the lines are weak and where we have weak implementation. we welcome the commission’s participation in that. looking ahead, it seems to me that we now have to implement this resolution on the proper implementation of the budget. perhaps the council could come along and sign the resolution on value for money. if it does not do it now, hopefully it will do so under the german presidency. we need to maintain our priorities. we have been very clear. we have taken on the priorities of the financial perspective. as we now look further forward to the 2008 and 2009 budget years, there is a lot of work to be done. we are not going to escape from the speed of globalisation. that was the first point we made when we looked at the aps back in may. we are going to have to adjust the programmes for financing, looking forward to seeing where our money can be best spent. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to congratulate both the rapporteurs on their work. despite this effort, however, it cannot be said that parliament has achieved much as a result of this year’s budgetary procedure. i deplore the fact that the council has shown a worrying lack of respect for the views of parliament throughout. we are the only democratically elected institution tasked with promoting the views of eu citizens, so i wonder whether the council will even bother to respect its commitment to the agreement finally reached with the secondary budgetary arm. i sincerely hope so. i would like very briefly to make a few comments, not just in respect of the 2007 budget, but also bearing in mind the 2008 review. first, our key ambition for the eu budget is that it must focus on priorities that deliver on the objectives set by us and our leaders. so it is with regret that i note that, although there has been some increase in the programmes, such as the seventh framework research programme, it is nowhere near the amount requested by the commission and parliament. this is an extremely important policy area with a direct impact on the way the eu develops its global economy and how we are seen by the rest of the world. the council knows this and has very vociferously tried to push the need for an increase in r&d spending. however, we are still at 1.5%. it really is time for the council to put their money where their mouth is. secondly, if the eu is to be taken seriously as a global player, it must back up its position with the funding necessary to play its role – for example in asia, which is the largest and most populous continent, with 60% of the global population in some of the world’s poorest countries. therefore, the continuing trend of reducing resources to that region is a disastrous policy.
madam president, this is not on the substance, but may i just congratulate you on putting into practice exactly what i suggested at voting time this morning, namely, to take catch-the-eye speakers at the end of a debate. i think we should do this for a short period at the end of every debate, but certainly when there is time available, as there is now. that is an excellent initiative, well done!
we know that in the future there will be a shrinking workforce trying to support more pensioners. in the light of that scenario, which is not that far away – in fact, much of it is upon us now – do you think that the countries which boosted their workforce by being more liberal and allowing free movement and migration have stolen a march on the other countries that have been more restrictive?
the original written question from the questioner focused on the relatively minor transitional restriction that ireland and the united kingdom have brought in regarding the two latest member states alone. do you agree, commissioner, that it would be far more important to focus on the continued restrictions on all the new member states that are still enforced even now by the majority of the old fifteen?
thank you for your answer, commissioner. however, i wonder whether you appreciate the anger that will be felt by many eu citizens and visitors from the rest of the world coming to the european union this christmas who, having brought premium scottish whisky and other products into an airport like frankfurt or london, from where they are going on to other airports like edinburgh or glasgow, discover that their duty-free goods are confiscated at that airport. it is going to create a lot of unhappiness and a lot of dissatisfaction. commissioner, would you agree that we need some sort of publicity campaign in third countries to make people aware of this situation? secondly, will you urgently engage in discussions with international aviation organisations to see if we can arrive at a global common standard so that this problem does not arise?
thank you commissioner for those remarks. i would like to draw to your attention that yesterday evening air france cancelled the evening flight form gatwick to strasbourg, quoting technical reasons, but refused support to passengers and refused to provide hotel accommodation for them. will the commissioner take this opportunity to make it very clear to air france and indeed to other airlines that current eu legislation – this legislation – applies to them and that they should not look for loopholes and try to wriggle out of it, but should respect eu legislation and support passengers when flights are cancelled, as they were yesterday.
member of the commission. i hope i do. in response to the question by mr davies as to when the commission will introduce measures to end the discard of by-catch by fishing vessels, i should like to point out first of all that the commission considers discarding to be a serious problem in european fisheries, and is committed to acting on this issue as a priority. the cause of discards is that unwanted by-catch is taken in many european fisheries and then discarded. discarding can primarily be reduced, and eventually eliminated, by reducing unwanted by-catch. this can be done through legal regulation or by providing incentives for the development of fishing technologies and fishing practices which produce little by-catch and therefore little discard. in early 2007 the commission will present a communication on reducing discards. the instruments that will be considered in this context include selective fishing areas, closed areas, requirements to change fishing grounds when significant by-catch is encountered and the economic penalising of by-catch. the commission will outline the main elements of a new policy on discarding and open a debate on the implementation of that policy. following a debate in early 2007, the commission will develop implementing regulations on a fishery-by-fishery basis, the first of which will be presented in 2008.
i should like to thank the commissioner. i met with the fleetwood fish producers' association recently. they tell me that their inshore fishery currently produces some 70-80% discards on vessels above 10 metres. they told me: ‘he irish sea is full of fish, but we are murdering it by catching fish too small to breed’. they say that if they use larger nets they are regarded as going out to catch cod and, therefore, they have to go out for fewer days, they lose income and it is a vicious circle. commissioner, i know that you want to do something about this. i have talked to you about it over the years. however, you have been a commissioner now for more than two years and you are talking about something happening in 2008! are you satisfied with this rate of progress? this is an obscenity and it must be stopped!
member of the commission. as in all aspects with regard to fisheries, i am certainly not satisfied. the rate of progress is not attributable to a lack of willingness on our part, or to a lack of means to try to achieve results, or a lack of determination on the part of the commission. more often than not it is attributable to the fact that we have very complex fisheries in community waters. it is far simpler to operate a decent discard system further north, where fisheries are relatively clean, where you go to fish for mackerel and you catch virtually only mackerel. in community waters most of the time you target a particular species, but you have what is essentially a mixed fishery and that is much more complex to manage. we are looking at ways and means of introducing measures which will reduce discards significantly. this year we have tried to introduce an effort-management scheme for the kattegat. the north sea regional advisory council was heavily involved in this. we had hoped that at the december council i would be able to announce that this would start in 2007. however, after considering the various proposals being made to operate such a scheme, the operators’ representatives asked us for more time, because they realise that the impact on fisheries could be significant. the north sea regional advisory council is of the same opinion and therefore i shall not be proposing that it starts in 2007. i hope that during the course of next year this will materialise and that it will come with a much more general position with regard to the management of fisheries whereby discards are reduced as much as possible. the fishermen you spoke to may be partly right, but there is also a significant element of exaggeration.
in the commission documentation published for the upcoming fisheries council, reference is made to the prospect of cod fishing being brought within the framework of a ‘cod bycatch fishery’. could the commissioner elaborate on this, and could he define what is meant by a ‘cod bycatch fishery’? what would this mean in practice? will it involve a percentage limit, and will we still have the lunacy of valuable fish being discarded? could the commissioner please cast some light on what is intended by the phrase ‘cod bycatch fishery’?
commissioner, you may say that it is clear that no unauthorised product can enter the eu market, but that has simply not been the case. the fact that the us certified this rice as being gm-free turned out, as you have said, not to be true, and now you require testing. you say that the fsa has clarified its position, but can you say what explanation you received from the fsa? was it correct in telling shops that they did not need to withdraw this rice? given that it is illegal to sell gm rice, how can the conduct advised by the fsa possibly be legal? have you reprimanded it? does this whole episode not go to show the attempts to pretend that organic and conventional food can be protected from gm contamination to be utterly unconvincing?
the next item is the report by roselyne bachelot-narquin, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund (com(2006)0091 – c6 0082/2006 – 2006/0033(cod)).
mr president, british conservatives are not unreservedly enthusiastic that there should be a globalisation fund at eu level. the good news is that this proposal is about helping people, helping them cope with the challenge of change, and we support such a principle wholeheartedly. at issue is whether such help should be at eu rather than member state level. however, to be frank, the fund is also about helping certain governments sell the idea of globalisation to their voters. this is not a criticism. we support that idea too. there is indeed unease in certain countries and certain quarters that the wind of global competition can be a chill wind for some. this is understandable. it is also true. it is in all our interests that concerns regarding possible downsides of globalisation are addressed so that the upsides of globalisation can be released. i congratulate the rapporteur on her thoughtful and considered report and for her positive work in the trialogue. however, concerns remain about the fund itself and it has been no surprise that in the various discussions in committee voices have been raised saying: if there is to be such a fund, let it be bigger; if there is to be such a fund, let it be easier for us to get our hands on it. once the eu proposes any new budget line, there is usually such a clamour. but in this case there is not really a separate budget line, as the amount available will basically be made up of monies unspent elsewhere. this is not just untidy, it is bad accountancy practice. i am encouraged that the rapporteur and indeed the committee have supported a key amendment of mine to article 18(3), which states that ‘it is the responsibility of each member state to ensure it has smoothly functioning management and control systems’ to track the expenditure and to make sure it is justified and that ‘it is the responsibility of the commission to verify that such systems are indeed in place.’ globalisation can indeed be a challenge but, in the context of the auditors’ failure to sign off the overall annual accounts for the 12th successive year, the management and control of this spending is possibly the biggest challenge of all.
i thank all speakers in the debate and, in particular, the committee on employment and social affairs for its serious work in a difficult and challenging global environment. the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow. written statement (rule 142)
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on women’s rights and gender equality on the council common position for adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european institute for gender equality (10351/1/2006 – c6 0314/2006 – 2005/0017(cod)) (co-rapporteurs: lissy gröner, amalia sartori) (a6-0455/2006)
thank you very much for your contribution. mrs thomsen, before you start, i should just like to say that i notice a tv is crew following you and interviewing you in the chamber. i doubt whether this would happen in the folketing. this is a parliament not a studio. i shall allow it on this occasion, but please do not let it happen again.
(the speaker spoke irish)i am delighted to support this report and to call for speedy progress so that the european institute for gender equality will be able to start work next year. i wish to thank the rapporteurs for their work. fostering the exchange of experience across the eu will help us to make use of the analysis already carried out at national and regional level and to carry out important new analysis. the institute should become a major arm of eu policy development so that action on gender mainstreaming can be actively promoted. the institute should be operational as soon as possible, with a clear focus on both collection and analysis of data; and it is then up to us here in parliament to ensure that the analysis it comes forward with is pushed through all policy development in the future.
i wish to thank the commissioner, all the speakers and mrs záborská and her committee for their important work. i wish the institute every success. it is much needed. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item on the agenda is the report by matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on type approval of motor vehicles with respect to emissions and on access to vehicle repair information, amending directive 72/306/eec and directive .../.../ec (com(2005)0683 – c6-0007/2006 – 2005/0282(cod)) (a6-0301/2006).
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, mr groote, mr krahmer and particularly mrs harms, for their excellent cooperation on this report. we have all sat through long and involved negotiations with the council and the commission, and i am pleased that we have come to a satisfactory conclusion – at least in most respects. my group welcomes the outcome of these negotiations. the report is balanced because it not only tackles air pollution at source but also takes into account the very legitimate concerns of a very successful european industry. as previous speakers have outlined, the timetable that has been agreed is based on the package adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, euro 5 and euro 6 coming into force in 2009 and 2014 respectively. i welcome the work done by my colleague mrs weisgerber on the access to repair information. that is a controversial paragraph but we have also reached a very successful conclusion in that. the limit values agreed for euro 5 and euro 6 steps are challenging but achievable standards. although reduction of nox is very desirable, it must be remembered that will be achieved at the expense of increased co2 emissions. the particulate limits are as tight as is feasible and will require the fitting of diesel particulate filters across the range of euro 5 diesel passenger cars, and that will deliver major air quality benefits. with regard to the so-called heavy m1 provision, i am very happy with the compromise reached. we must not forget that these vehicles are essential for many users and that there are very legitimate reasons for them to be covered by these specific provisions, which have slightly higher limits to reflect the fact that emissions increase with vehicle mass. in this regulation we must avoid giving manufacturers a perverse incentive to simply replace diesel engines with petrol engines in these vehicles, with the resultant increase in c02 emissions that we all want to see avoided.
i drive a diesel audi, so i have an interest in this debate. thank you for your kind remarks. i have been here in the chair since 9 p.m. i am being fortified by coffee and some nameless portuguese firewater provided by the usher, because it is christmas. so if i go blind before the end of the debate, just accept the situation!
actually, i drive an audi quattro.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to make three brief points. firstly, the question of the large, expensive off-road vehicles. i myself - as has been asked here - do not own a car at all. i walk or take the train. i was a little surprised that mr belet attacked the commission for making an exception for the large and expensive off-road vehicles. i am sorry, but it was the commission that proposed not to make an exception. it was the european parliament which insisted that an exception be made for these vehicles. we'll leave the church in the village. with all the understanding and all the effort to follow the arguments. i cannot really follow mr krahmer when he says that if you have enough money to buy a special, big and expensive car, you also acquire the right to make more dirt. i cannot share that view, even if i want to. the problem is that we are dealing here - as mr groote has quite rightly said - with a general compromise. you will have noticed that the commission is very unhappy with one aspect of this compromise. but that does not change the fact that we are urging you to accept the overall compromise and not to table amendments of the kind described, because otherwise the whole package will fall apart and it will be impossible to know when we will reach a solution. sometimes you have to swallow a toad. i would like to conclude by referring to an argument which has been used by several speakers: the question of how old the european fleet is and what these regulations actually do. this is a very serious problem. in fact, most vehicles on our roads are not equipped to meet the latest emission standards. in fact, our european fleet is renewing itself at only 8% a year. that means it'll take over 10 years to replenish the entire fleet. by the time euro 4 is fully implemented in the european fleet, for example, we will probably have already reached the year 2015 or 2016. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but to do that, they would have to remain affordable. there is no way around that, and that is why i believe that the proposal which is here and which i recommend you accept is clearly the best in the end.
commissioner, my reference was not to the language but to the geographical spread of the debate. there were actually seven german members speaking in the debate – which is admirable – three dutch and single members from other member states. good for germany – and, of course, for you! i should like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur, all the draftspersons of opinions and speakers in the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. written statement (rule 142)
in dealing with any matter related to environmental pollution it is essential that we strike a balance between the necessity for economic progress and offering a real opportunity for a reduction in emissions and thereby reducing the risks to health. i thank the rapporteur for drafting a report which generally strikes that balance. it is clear that we need to make stronger efforts to address the problem of vehicle emissions deriving from the use of fossil fuels. it is necessary to have sensible limit values for emissions of carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter. there may be differences of opinion over what the limit values should be but a reasonable compromise appears to have been reached.
mr president, i certainly welcome the suppression of the terminology of ‘absorption capacity’, which sounds like a kitchen towel, and of ‘privileged partnership’, which is a faintly patronising concept, without, frankly, much privilege to it. but we must seek now to develop the neighbourhood policy quickly and creatively so as to create upon the eastern frontier stable circumstances for states that cannot join the union and for those that decide that they do not want to do so. as we approach the renegotiation of the treaty, it would be sensible to include inside part iii a chapter describing the enlargement policy, transcribing the copenhagen criteria and describing far more clearly than at present the accession process and threshold. consideration should be added, as we renegotiate part iii, to the creation of a fresh class of associate membership. such an improvement would serve to reassure public opinion about the quality of our accession process and about the pace of expansion of europe’s post-national society. it would also be of great use to third countries as they reflect upon their future relationship with the union.
mr president, it is clear to me that proponents of the rejected constitution see enlargement as a bandwagon to secure implementation of parts of that constitution. hence, in the stubb report, the ill-argued but vehemently demanded further assault on national vetoes, the requirement for a minister of foreign affairs, the demand for more powers for the unelected commission and the expansionist court of justice and more competences for the eu. enlargement itself requires none of this, but europhile fanatics like our two rapporteurs, devoid of sustainable arguments to overcome popular opposition to the constitution, have come up with this spurious spin that enlargement demands a constitution. i say neither this eu, nor one bloated by foolishly encompassing turkey, needs a constitution. what a fine mess laurel brok and hardy stubb would get us into! and all this with no thought of who would pay. as in the past, the expectation seems to be that countries like the united kingdom will happily continue to bankroll this runaway madness. with the eu already costing my country gbp 4 billion net per annum, i have to say to you that we simply cannot afford any more charity.
mr president, the european union has a seemingly limitless need to absorb more countries. more and more power is taken away from democratic nation states and concentrated in a centralised and undemocratic european union. as mr stubb puts it, he wants to see a single entity with a unified structure and a legal personality, in other words, a ‘united states of europe’. mr stubb will not be surprised to know that the uk independence party does not agree with that, but i have found something in his report that we can agree with. when speaking of a revised constitution, he calls for the adoption of a clause enabling member states to withdraw from the european union. eventually, britain will leave the european union, constitution or not, withdrawal clause or not, but at least mr stubb has the decency to recognise that countries should have the right to secede from the new european empire.
mr president, mr stubb said that enlargement has been the most successful eu policy, spreading stability, peace and prosperity across our continent. that logic still applies. of course it means that the european union must adapt, especially in terms of institutional reform. however, does it mean that we should block any enlargement until all institutional reforms have been achieved? if that were the case, the last enlargement would never have happened, because the treaty of nice was clearly insufficient. perhaps even the 1973 enlargement might not have happened. the fact is that enlargement is one of the factors that drive reform. some member states that are reluctant to embrace institutional reform often accept its necessity as a consequence of enlargement. therefore supporters of reform should be supporters of enlargement. yet mr méndez de vigo said that there should be no future enlargements without the constitutional treaty. indeed, paragraph 9 of mr stubb’s report states that ‘any enlargement requires...’ – and then there is a long list of items that are all contained in the constitutional treaty. we have a slight difficulty with that absolute position. mr brok said that those who push hardest for widening are often those who oppose deepening. yet if you want to force both, you need to press for both. there is a real danger that, on the one hand, you will have people who say that they do not want enlargement until we have institutional reform and, on the other, you will have those who say that we do not need institutional reform until we have enlargement. if you want to drive forward both agendas you need to support both, because it is both that will drive us forward to having an enlarged and a reformed european union. that is why our group has tabled an amendment to paragraph 9 to make it clear that we do not see as a precondition having every single part of an institutional agenda accepted before any single enlargement takes place. we believe that the two processes – enlargement and reform – will go together; they will drive each other forward and they may, perhaps, end up being enacted on the same day – a new treaty and an accession treaty perhaps rolled into one.
mr president, the smooth successive waves of eu enlargement are a magnificent achievement of the eu. the fifth wave, which enlarged the union to 25 member states two years ago, has actually been a great success, in spite of warnings that the union would be paralysed without a constitution and that countries such as my own would suffer unsustainable immigration flows, including from the roma population. regrettably, the brok report seeks again to link further enlargement to the absolute need for an eu constitution, whereas british conservatives, whom i represent, would argue that this is not the case and that what we really need are treaty adjustments, via an amended nice treaty, to reflect the new voting strength in the council, the number of meps and commissioners, after the expected relatively painless accession of croatia in the next couple of years. i am of the personal opinion that we now also need to look seriously at the top-heavy commission. however, i believe we should not rotate commissioners absolutely equally amongst all member states, but some mathematical formula must be found to preserve, at least in a semi-permanent presence, the commissioners of the big member states – but i know this is controversial. the new member states have, broadly speaking, been more atlanticist: they believe in freer markets and competitive rates of low taxation, which is an approach i welcome. i believe that the accession of romania and bulgaria on 1 january 2007 will also prove to be a great success. as rapporteur, i believe that the european neighbourhood policy must be split into a southern euromed dimension through the barcelona process and a new eastern concept of an enhanced free-trade and visa-facilitated eu-black sea community to further strengthen our ties with european countries such as ukraine, moldova and the three caucus republics. i call on the member states to inform moldova and ukraine that they are in the longer term entitled, in my view, in the same way as all the countries in the western balkans are entitled, to become potential candidates for eu membership.
mr president, i rise on a point of order under rule 166, on the question of admissibility of an amendment under rule 151(3). it concerns amendment 160, tabled by mr wise on behalf of the ind/dem group, which calls for a massive extension of budgetary powers into areas of member state sovereignty, namely: ‘member states’ governments and institutions or the eu shall pay for those social policy information campaigns ...’. could you advise on this amendment’s admissibility in the light of this massive extension of eu powers? (laughter and applause)
in writing. i supported the initiative by my group and other members, which was a compromise that would have preserved the best of the reach proposal whilst answering many of the concerns of business. as things stand the new legislation is full of loopholes and exemptions and my concern is that this will allow the use of toxic chemicals in manufacturing to continue, even when safer alternatives exist.
in writing. i am pleased to have seen confirmed today an improved proposal to deal with the crucial issues raised under the reach report. in particular the use of animal testing, which is of great concern to many of my constituents, has been changed to incorporate validation of alternatives. also, a three-year review allows for the european commission to consider whether legislative proposals covering this area could be useful to reduce further any need for such testing. similarly, the improved text which i voted for today reflects more accurately the views of thousands of individuals and interest groups in dealing with the cumulative effects of toxic chemicals found in hundreds of household products.
in writing. mr president, after so much work over such a long period this package does not merit the backslapping and self congratulation we have seen today. the alternative package put forward by my group would have worked, and implemented a new regime which would have protected consumers and balanced the needs of business and the economy which must of course be included in our plans. today's package will not do what it says on the tin, and it is a shame that meps from the labour and conservative groups did not join us to bring in a better package.
in writing. the regulation, evaluation, and authorisation of chemicals (reach) is crucial in the protection of public health. this legislation is particularly important in relation to babies’ health through breast-feeding. breast milk, the best source of essential nutrients for a baby, is currently being affected by dangerous chemicals found in the environment, passing through the mother’s body. through reach, such harmful chemicals would be substituted with safer alternatives where possible. manufacturers would have a duty of care to protect human health and the environment. in addition to this, reach promotes both increased transparency in the case of, and alternatives to, animal testing. the compromise reached today is the best we could hope for.
in writing. the adoption of this legislation is a big step forward for the protection of people and the environment from potentially dangerous chemicals. some argue that it should have been better, and there is indeed a case for saying that a compromise such as this is not perfect. however, a common set of rules on this important matter is better than a patchwork of perfect (but divergent) rules in some countries, half measures in others and no rules at all elsewhere – in what is supposed to be a common market with common rules. that would have given less protection at greater costs.
in writing. i voted for the compromise amendments on this report and against all others. i did so to avoid the reach directive going into conciliation where i felt it was far from certain to emerge as a piece of legislation. many of the amendments had much to commend them but they would have threatened the directive as a whole – as so often in politics the best would have been the enemy of the good.
in writing. british conservative members of the epp-ed group support the hieronymi report (com(2005)0646 – c6-0443/2005 – 2005/0260(cod)) particularly because it includes support for co- and self-regulation and the 30-minute rule for advertising slots. the other important aspects of country of origin principle, product placement and short extracts have been substantially modified by the rapporteur since the commission published its original text. we should like to congratulate ruth hieronymi on her diligence in the many public hearings, which included the appropriate regulatory and commercial interests from the united kingdom, and on her producing a balanced, practicable and enduring piece of work incorporating many improvements suggested by colleagues.
in writing. i voted against in the final vote on tv broadcasting, because i believe that programmes will be overrun by advertisements as a result of this report. i regret that parliament rejected attempts to ban junk food advertising during children’s programmes. today’s vote will undoubtedly lead to a deterioration in the quality of programmes in the eu.
in writing. i voted for this report and in favour of amendments that allow member states to take action to protect minors, to restrict the timing of alcohol advertising and the advertisements for unhealthy food. i also supported an amendment that allows a member state to take action against a broadcaster who sets up in another member state intentionally to get round national legislation.
in writing. advertising on tv for alcohol and tobacco products are a part of this directive's concerns. yet product placement of these products has been treated differently in this vote today. i voted to keep tobacco off tv screens and to limit alcohol advertising. however, although tobacco was prohibited, alcohol failed to get sufficient votes. given the distress caused by alcohol in many families' lives across the eu, as well as related ill-health issues, i find this result unsatisfactory. in particular we must keep youngsters from being exposed to enticements to drink.
in writing. the health of children in europe must be one of our key concerns. therefore the marketing of foods high in sugar, salt and fat to children undermines efforts in the fight against child obesity, a problem faced by one in five children in the european union. such marketing makes it increasingly difficult for parents to encourage healthy eating: limits on such marketing are therefore imperative in tackling this problem. furthermore, european ministers (in november) and the ep committee on the environment, public health and food safety (last week) approved the world health organization's call for the introduction of strict legislation in this area. we as legislators must do all that we can to protect children's health and place a ban on the advertising of these types of unhealthy products to children. also, i fully back the amendment which would have restricted the advertising of alcohol to after 9 p.m. in the evening. it is with grave disappointment that i note that the vote today did not go far enough in protecting children's health.
in writing. i supported this compromise package which will ensure the motor industry is forced to produce greener and cleaner cars which will help to reduce pollution. this package of amendments will mean that cars produced will have to stick to set emission limits in the long run. it will encourage the motor vehicle industry to invest in the technology to make cars greener and to help to protect our environment.
in writing. the british socialist delegation (eplp) welcomes the adoption of the resolution on the commission’s legislative and work programme 2007. it is a comprehensive and ambitious work programme. whilst there are certain omissions which are regrettable, on the whole we support the commission’s programme. on the particular issue of security of citizens, justice and migration, the eplp supports the general position of the ep as well as the other institutions in the development of policy in this important field. that said, on the issue of maximising the effectiveness of the decision-making process in this field, we underline that, on this issue, it is solely for member states in the council to decide.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues support the president of the commission’s call for a renewed focus in achieving effective economic reform through the revised lisbon agenda which we believe must focus on stimulating growth and competitiveness in europe leading to more employment. the completion of the internal market is also something we can endorse and the effective implementation of the services directive will be an important element in this. liberalisation and the pursuit of free-trade policies will lead to a more competitive and dynamic economy in europe. we also support the emphasis placed by this commission on deregulation and the rigorous pursuit of impact assessments, something british conservatives have long argued for. we also welcome any sensible measures that promote the environment and the fight against global poverty. we can agree with the emphasis placed on the fight against fraud and mismanagement. however, we cannot support the calls in this resolution for the implementation of the eu constitution, the calls for a common eu immigration, visa and asylum policy or the assertion that the eu has insufficient funds to deal with future challenges.
in writing. the failure to launch negotiations for a new framework agreement between the eu and russia is deeply concerning. there are many issues, including the recent murder of a former russian spy, which require answers. i hope that the next presidency of the eu will also give priority to relations with russia.
in writing. british conservatives have always been and remain strong supporters of eu enlargement as it provides a larger single market and a looser and more flexible europe of nation states. nevertheless, we do not accept that for this process to progress further that it needs a fully-fledged ec constitution with the loss of more powers from member states to the eu. therefore, we have abstained on this report.
in writing. i cling to the belief that enlargement is one of the few positive aspects of the eu, provided that the movement of people can be controlled - widening of the eu means less chance of creating a tightly integrated european superstate; it also helps extend the area of stability and prosperity across europe. in fact, as we have seen, the process of enlargement and the prospects of future enlargement are a major catalyst for change. the reaction to this by the federalists is to try and tighten their grip on the eu as a political project by trying to resuscitate the constitution and to slow down future enlargement. this is reflected in the brok report. the report also takes a very one-sided and unhelpful view of the cyprus problem. i abstained in order to signal, on the one hand, my support for enlargement, and on the other, my firm and consistent opposition to the federalist agenda, to the constitution, and to the bias against northern cyprus.
in writing. the pse group supported this report and congratulates the rapporteur on achieving a wide consensus. however, the uk labour meps and others abstained on this report and several of its paragraphs on the grounds that, while we support most of the measures proposed, they are not all preconditions for enlargement. had the report not insisted on every one of these reforms being a precondition that has to enter into force before any further enlargement, it would no doubt have gained a larger majority.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues have always been and remain strong supporters of the enlargement of the european union. however, we fundamentally disagree with the premise of this report which, in effect, states that further enlargement can only proceed successfully if the european constitution comes into force.
in writing. although there is much to support in this report, it focuses not on what is needed for enlargement but what the eu is missing due to the non-ratification of the constitution treaty. although i am not against the constitutional treaty, i do not believe that it should be a prerequisite for future enlargements. i will therefore abstain.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, observers will be delighted to hear that the presidency-in-office is cutting down the length of the council conclusions. i understand that the current draft is about 20 pages, at least in french, compared with the normal 60. they may not be so pleased to hear from mr poettering that the european people’s party is meeting tomorrow to prepare the summit. they are so divided over issues like turkey that, when they prepare the summit, things never get better! in fact, i understand that the council secretariat is preparing a letter saying, ‘please, if things don’t get better soon, we may have to ask you to stop helping us!’ i would like to address three issues that are on the agenda for the summit: enlargement, energy and migration. the council will discuss enlargement and, no doubt, integration capacity. perhaps they will find an agreement on where europe ends, but i suspect that jean monnet might have been right when, addressing the predecessor to this assembly, the common assembly of the european coal and steel community in 1955, he spoke of a ‘broader united europe whose bounds are set only by those who have not yet joined’. as the chinese would put it rather more prosaically, ‘the people who decide when the bus is full are those on the outside’. it is important to discuss turkey and i praise the commission, and particularly the work of commissioner rehn, in taking action and making a firm proposal before there was time for an anarchy of reaction from national capitals; a firm proposal that was supported by the foreign ministers and, i hope, will be taken up by the council. but let us then recognise that before we talk any more about enlargement, we are going to have to get our own constitutional arrangements sorted out, because the european people will not want us to enlarge further without a clear basis for the further development of our union. it is not going to do any good to think we can rewrite the nice treaty for croatia. let us get the constitution sorted first. on energy, the great worry of my group, president-in-office, is that the european union is in danger of being held hostage. held hostage to producers, whether they be in russia or in north africa or in central asia – or perhaps even in latin america – in the case of biofuels. what we urgently need to do in europe is to cut consumption by motor vehicles and electrical equipment; cut consumption of heating through better design of buildings; cut the consumption of electronic equipment; and increase production of safe, sustainable energy sources – biomass, as proposed by the commission, and renewables, perhaps through research by moving to a hydrogen economy or looking into nuclear fusion. we need to liberalise markets, because one of the reasons we do not have a proper energy policy in europe is that we do not have a proper liberalisation of the market. i am pleased that even the social democrats, meeting in oporto last week, have finally recognised that competition is going to be important for future development. on migration, the commission and the council are concentrating too much on the security aspects, not enough on the economic or humanitarian aspects. you cannot talk of ‘effective management’ of migration, of ‘reinforcing’ frontex and so on, without recognising the human tragedy unfolding on our southern shores because people know they will find jobs here in europe. the president said this was a long-term challenge – yes, but for five years the council has done nothing about it, and we must make progress. finally, if the council does come to discuss the site for galileo – i understand that prague, valetta and ljubljana all want it – why do they not follow the example of this wonderful institution and have a three-site operation? at least those looking at the site for galileo would be able to say eppur si muove!
mr president, it is the end of a pretty unspectacular presidency and perhaps we should be grateful for that. i expect there will be some more fireworks with the germans in the next six months! as we head to this summit i suspect that the headlines will be about the turkish debate, and perhaps we will hear more about climate change. my concern is what is discussed in the area of freedom, security and justice. there was an attempt made in september at tampere to change this issue from one of national vetoes to qualified majority voting. those of us who come from countries with a custom of common law believe our rights to trial by jury, the presumption of innocence before guilt and habeas corpus to be absolutely essential. we do not want the european union to use the horrors that have happened around the world as a beneficial crisis in order to increase its own powers. indeed, if we take away from people their individual freedoms and liberty in the name of fighting terror, we have actually conceded a victory to the terrorists.
mr president, the council meets this week to discuss a number of important issues that are going to resonate into the next presidency. firstly, the finnish presidency will report on its informal consultations with member states on the future of the european constitution. i hope that discussion on this matter will be open and transparent, as the council should be. we know that there are very serious reservations about proceeding with the constitution in a number of countries. the british government has given mixed signals and appears deeply divided, the outgoing dutch government does not want another referendum, whilst the german government wishes to retain as much of the current constitution as possible. i therefore sympathise with the presidency in the work it will have to take on in regard to this matter. however, one thing is very clear: there really is little enthusiasm for it. alde group members may care to note the words of the british liberal democrat leader, who yesterday described it as a ‘tortured document’. i wonder whether mr duff would agree with that. i make a plea that we should now move on and start focusing on a real reform agenda, one that genuinely makes the european union more outward-looking, flexible and competitive. i believe that is also the way to restore confidence in europe – and certainly not relying on pse booklets, which will soon enough be forgotten. the council also discussed ideas on the future of justice and home affairs. it is clear that we have not sufficiently explored ways of improving intergovernmental cooperation. we should now get on with this and seek innovative ways of making that route work better. i hope that we will also take on board the remarks of mr barroso, who said he would like to see a speeding-up of structural reforms in europe. he is right. that is the kind of practical initiative that will improve europe’s standing in the eyes of the people, and i for one certainly applaud it.
mr president, i should like to thank the presidency for reporting upon the results of their soundings on the future of the treaty, although one might have expected a slightly fuller report from a presidency that has been so properly committed to improving transparency. however, the truth is that member states cannot form a constructive opinion about the future without a concrete proposal for its renegotiation from the commission or from the presidency. i would say to mr kirkhope that at least my party leader speaks about the issue, whereas mr cameron seems far too scared even to speak of it at all! the presidency should point out that it is not any good for member states simply to agree that they all wish to salvage the treaty and, at the same time, block the removal of national vetoes and the extension of qmv. if they do that, we will have more poor outcomes and slow progress. therefore, could the presidency assure us that at the summit it will expose the absurd contradiction between those two positions?
mr president, i hope the european council will express its condemnation of the holocaust conference – or, more accurately, the ‘holocaust denial conference’ – just held in iran. i appreciate the fact that the president of parliament did just that this morning. it is essential that the european union makes clear at the highest level – that of the assembled prime ministers – its opposition to this outrageous exercise in mischief and hate. on enlargement, it is very disheartening that some eu countries and some meps seem able to contemplate turkey only in negative terms of doom and gloom. in fact, turkish accession would be a great asset for the eu. of course, there are difficulties and turkey does have legal obligations it is not fulfilling, but it might help if the council also fulfilled its political pledge to end the isolation of the turkish cypriots. the european council also needs to fulfil its commitment to keep the door open to the balkan countries. on making the eu more effective in law enforcement, the draft european council conclusions are an exercise in contortion. they start by emphasising, quite rightly, that our citizens want concrete results on cross-border crime and terrorism and that the eu is failing to respond adequately. but they end only by confirming the principles of the constitutional treaty – which is great, but gives us no medium-term solution. the fact that the council could not agree a prisoner transfer measure because of a veto by one member state just adds to the long list of failures and inaction. the criminals are laughing all the way to the bank. finally, a word about extraordinary rendition, torture flights and secret prisons. i can but dream of a united european council enjoining each of the member states to carry out a thorough examination into possible complicity. maybe there would be more of a chance of such an outcome if the council did not treat the european parliament’s temporary committee with such disdain. in its 2006 human rights report, presumably produced under the authority of council secretary-general javier solana, it says: ‘the ep carried out an inquiry led by mr dick marty’, but mr dick marty led the council of europe parliamentary assembly’s inquiry! if mr solana cannot even bother to distinguish between the two bodies, perhaps our draft final report description of him as ‘uncooperative’ can be considered justified.
mr president, i wish to congratulate the president-in-office on the way in which, with characteristic finnish honesty but uncharacteristic presidency bluntness, he has described the difficulties in the council of getting member states to agree on things, and how impossible it is to make progress in certain areas where we have unanimity. it is very important that the eu delivers in areas like justice and home affairs and immigration policy, and we must ensure that we make progress for the benefit of our citizens. i would hope that in areas where we have almost reached agreement, such as prisoner transfers and the possibility of a rapid response instrument for emergencies, we will be able to carry these through in a summit. we can also apply the same principle to member states in other areas as the commission did yesterday in taking action about opening up energy markets and on economic reform. let us not lose sight of the importance of getting member states to deliver on what they promised to do on the whole lisbon strategy. however, enlargement is clearly the big issue. we seem to have avoided a train crash with turkey, but that does not guarantee the train is not going to come grinding to a halt, because if that train does come to a halt, the consequences will be very severe not only for the european union but also for the balkans. we must move ahead with enlargement. we must not become distracted by things like absorption capacity, because we all know that if norway wanted to join, nobody would want to talk about absorption capacity. it is a code word for something else. let us make progress on enlargement; let us keep the show on the road.
i am astonished that several members have focused on their opposition to the constitutional treaty in their contribution to this debate, although the matter is not on the agenda of this council, but of the one to be held in june. nor is it right for them to say that the issue is dead, having been ‘rejected’. it hasn’t. it has been rejected by 2 countries and accepted by 18, with the remainder waiting to see what happens. what we have is not rejection, but divergence. it is quite right for the european council to try to overcome that divergence, taking account both of the views of the minority that rejected the treaty and of the majority who support it. to claim that the current treaties should forever remain unamended because of the rejection of this treaty by france and the netherlands is untenable.
mr president, i do not have a supplementary question. i just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that i am present for my own question, which you have already got tabled.
deputising for the author. – i wish to thank the president-in-office for that comprehensive answer, and would simply ask what plans there are to ensure the synergy between the two different years – 2007 and 2008 – so that a holistic approach is adopted and that they benefit one another and interact, rather than being organised totally separately.
thank you, minister, but the fact is that second meeting did not take place, so one has to question the priority. and to have the chairman of the committee at just one meeting in one year is really not very stunning. we as the parliament were not involved in the drawing up of this counter-terrorism strategy or in the action planned, despite repeated requests. you were having discussions – we had a debate earlier this afternoon about the automated targeting system, which you knew about in september 2005, although you did not tell us. if there really is a commitment to keep us informed of all important developments in the field of counter-terrorism, why did we not know about that? why are we not involved in all the discussions with the united states on security and privacy? i beg to differ on your commitment to this dialogue.
thank you for the answer, which demonstrates that, whether it is under the current treaties as modified by nice or under the constitutional treaty, the council has to get to work on a new system for the composition of the commission, presumably with a rotation. if that is the case, and if it is going to enter into force in time for the next commission, would it not be a good idea to begin work sooner rather than later?
mr president, yesterday the president, faced with a directive about a paperless environment, whispered ‘dream on’. the eu is behind the paper curtain or, in real english, the big eu paper wet blanket. over-regulation closes businesses and the eu paper wet blanket is putting out the fire of enterprise and the ember of innovation. the single market, we were told, was about trade, not about paper regulations on how to ride a moped. or are you resisting an invasion of british mopeds on the beach at dunkirk? dream on! certain eu states treat eu papers as joke sheets enforced by paper tigers with paper teeth, but they still sit on committees like nodding paper dogs generating more crazy paper regulations for the rest of us and filling in paper forms for expenses, while not enforcing simple rules about crash helmets. it is now only a matter of time until such a paper dictates that the british will drive on the right hand side! in this report, the eu has ignored its own research paper, according to the british motorcyclists federation, which says that these proposals are inept and ill-conceived. the bmf has pointed to the motorcycle accidents in-depth study showing that most motorcycle accidents are the result of low-speed urban collisions, usually the fault of the car driver. it was funded by eu taxpayers at eur 2.5 million and this directive will now be a eur 2.5 million waste of paper. the bmf says that motorcycling elements in the directive are diametrically opposed to the uk government’s own motorcycling strategy, do nothing to improve road safety, and lead to poor compliance with a possible negative effect on safety. bmf government relations executive trevor magnus said this is typical of the lack of democracy in the eu, treating citizens with contempt. i conclude that the entire proposal should be placed in the waste paper basket and recycled, but not into another wet blanket, please.
mr president, my assistant recently discovered a website which advertises quite openly that if you have been banned for driving in one country they will find, for a fee, a driving licence somewhere else. that is clearly unacceptable in modern society, just as it is completely unacceptable that people who commit serious offences in one country can avoid being penalised in another country. this proposal will gradually end that situation, but i regret that it will take so long, and i hope the process can be speeded up. this proposal brings simplicity and transparency and cuts red tape, although i notice that mr nattrass has not bothered to stay to hear that observation. it is, in fact, a key element in better regulation. the original proposal was much more bureaucratic, and we in parliament have done a good job of making it much simpler. it will improve road safety and combat fraud. i particularly welcome something nobody else has mentioned yet: the emphasis in the report on the competences of driving examiners. we need to raise the general level of driver training throughout the european union. i am not happy with the motorcycle proposals: they are unnecessarily complex and do not give enough emphasis to training at the very earliest stages and the requirement for compulsory testing. however, i recognise that there is no real support for this either in parliament or the council, so i must concede defeat. contrary to some of the scare stories some of my colleagues have spread, there is very little in this proposal that differs from existing uk tradition and practice.
mr president, firstly i would like to point out to the house that throughout the progress of this legislation i have been in favour of a common format – and i stress ‘format’ – for a driver’s licence across europe. this would achieve the objective of easier recognition of licences by police and enforcement agencies in all member states and lead to less fraud, which has been talked about already. this can, however, be achieved without all the red tape included in these proposals and in my view it is key to the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality that member states retain the power to determine how their citizens obtain and retain their licence. for example, the measures now proposed would completely change the burden of proof, requiring citizens to prove that they can drive safely rather than, as at present, the state having to prove that they cannot. regular renewals, even so-called administrative renewals of licences, would just push up costs to licence holders without improving road safety in the slightest way. i shall cite one example concerning motorcycles. these measures are ill-thought-out, over-prescriptive and will not lead to any improvements in road safety, simply to making it more difficult for motorcyclists to progress to more powerful bikes. this is not a road safety measure, it is nothing less than a cynical attempt to make life more difficult for those who use this mode of transport. unfortunately, time does not permit me to detail all the matters in this directive to which i object but, put simply, in my opinion there is no added value in these proposals. they are over-regulatory, over-bureaucratic and unnecessary. i urge colleagues most sincerely to support my amendments to reject the common position in its entirety.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i should like to thank mr frattini for his very helpful and very commendable introduction to this important subject. we probably have not given enough consideration to this issue in this parliament. i am glad that we are now having this debate because there is considerable evidence to show that violence in videos has an effect on minors who watch them – very detrimental effects, which we need to get to grips with. i think it is becoming clear that the self-regulation that mr frattini talked about is probably no longer enough. we need to look at this further, to ensure that young people have controlled access and that the videos themselves are not gratuitously violent. we see this kind of violence around us on our television screens and we are becoming more and more accepting of levels of violence in a way that we should not be and in a way that is not acceptable. so, this is a good initiative and one which i hope that we will be able to take forward. i am very pleased that the commission undertook the survey and that it was done under the daphne programme because not only do we see gratuitous violence on videos but also a representation of women that is unacceptable. so, not only do young people see violence as such, they also see violence towards women and a portrayal of women that is not what we would wish. there are two things that need to be dealt with: the protection of children and young people and making sure that women are not portrayed in unacceptable ways in these video productions. we need to be clear about not being seen as a ‘nanny state’. this has to be introduced in a reasonable way, in a way which is acceptable to everybody. we also need to give special attention to the internet. the commissioner mentioned this. it is difficult because regulation of the internet is very much in its early days, but we must not shy away from it. we need to find ways in which we can sensibly regulate the internet in everyone’s interests.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to begin by giving the apologies of the rapporteur, mr leinen, who could not be here tonight because he has to represent parliament in a far-away part of the world. he is on his way there as i speak. i rise to propose, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, an amendment to our rules of procedure, which would see a fourth vice-chairman elected in each parliamentary committee, a bureau of four instead of three, and a college of quaestors comprising six members instead of five. why has such a proposal come forward at this stage? it arises from an amendment to our rules tabled by just two members of the european parliament – mr schulz and mr poettering – who considered that this would facilitate the participation of members of parliament from across 27 member states – as we will be in january – in positions of responsibility in parliament. it would be a measure that would be inclusive, that would enable more members to hold positions of responsibility, and that would make it easier to distribute such posts politically across parliament. we took cognisance of that proposal in the committee on constitutional affairs. it is a very important consideration. we also heard that there were strong arguments against creating what many considered to be an inflation of parliamentary posts. there is, after all, no functional necessity to have a larger bureau of each parliamentary committee. perhaps – although that is more debatable – there is no functional necessity to have a larger college of quaestors. it was pointed out by many colleagues that we have enough positions of responsibility across this parliament for most members who wish to exercise such positions to have one. it was felt that perhaps this was a rather hasty change to the rules being put forward, for reasons that were not convincing for all of our members. that is why we came up with a compromise in committee. the rapporteur – the chairman of our committee – asked me to deputise for him tonight because i was the one that proposed that compromise, which is that we have a fourth vice-chairman of each parliamentary committee and a sixth quaestor for the remainder of this parliament, until 2009, but that we do not make it a permanent change. in 2009 we should revert to the current situation of three vice-chairmen of each parliamentary committee and five quaestors. indeed, the size of parliament, which is about to increase with romania and bulgaria joining, will actually decline in 2009, back to 732 members. i am sure mr duff will correct me if i got the figure slightly wrong. it is logical to take this step now, for inclusive reasons, but not make it a permanent change; to revert to the present numbers in 2009. that is the position of the committee, which i put forward. i must also say that it is the position adopted by a majority in my political group as well. i know that there are other views in parliament, but i submit it to parliament for consideration.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i do not expect that i will take up six and a half minutes on this matter, but i would like to thank mr corbett for nobly standing in to prosecute a cause for which i think he personally lacks a certain degree of enthusiasm, and to thank mr friedrich who, with his customary courtesy, is declining to upset current postholders by ousting them from the positions that they enjoy in parliament. but the fact is that for 53 more members of parliament we are creating a further 23 posts. some of these posts are described as jobs, as if there was employment attached. that is not the case for the majority of vice-chairmen of the committees. for the quaestors, there is perhaps a solid argument for an increase to six. perhaps there really is work for six quaestors, but for the vice-chairmen of the committees i fear it is inflation of posts for its own sake. that cannot present an especially attractive side of our parliamentary life and i am anxious about the reaction of public opinion. i also think it is not conducive to increased efficiency or effectiveness. there is no functional necessity for these posts, rather the reverse. there is a risk that the bureaux will become top-heavy superstructures. i also disagree that we are facing extraordinary circumstances. when parliament expanded to accept these meps from 10 new accession states in 2004, we did not increase the size of the bureaux of the committees. we all agree with and are grateful for the proposal to include a sunset clause. i fear that when we come to 2009, a sort of bureaucratic paralysis will fall upon parliament and we will all decide it is safer and quieter to stick with this inflated size of committee vice-chairmanships. may the sun set upon this manoeuvre as soon as possible, and my own group will oppose the change of rules tomorrow.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, i just wish to say that, while i understand fully the arguments against this proposal, it is unfair to characterise it, as mr voggenhuber did, as a conspiracy between the two big groups. after all, the extra positions created would also benefit the small groups. indeed, the d’hondt system that we customarily apply is one which, when there is a small number of posts to be distributed, arguably favours the big groups, but, when there is a larger number of posts to be distributed, it favours the small groups. therefore, i do not think the conspiracy theory is a correct analysis. certainly, on top of that, it was contested in my group: there was a lively debate on whether this was a good or bad thing for parliament. opinions were divided, which was why we were so happy with the compromise that has been adopted with this ‘sunset clause’.
rapporteur. – madam president, at the beginning of this year a harsh shiver went through the homes of many people in western europe as the russian firm gazprom turned off the supplies to ukraine. the effects of that were felt throughout the european union. a harsh shiver went down the spine of many politicians as we realised that in future, if we were to continue on our current trajectory, over 80% of our gas was likely to come from outside the eu. there are real security-of-supply issues that need to be addressed very quickly. on top of this, there is an increasing awareness of the climate change agenda. it is affecting our planet more quickly and in more dramatic ways than were hitherto imagined. if we are to stem the tide of the effects that humans are having on the environment, we surely have to start by making radical changes in the way we use and produce energy. i would like to think that the report we are voting on today will be an adequate response to those challenges. the commission has set out its stall on the scale of the problem. we hope we have responded constructively to some of the tough choices that need to be made. there has been no doubt that this is an opportunity for the eu to prove itself to the citizens of europe. this is one of the greatest contributions that parliament has made to this debate, putting citizens and consumers right back into the centre of the energy debate. if we are to take on these challenges the consumer has to be involved and we have to recognise that energy poverty is a real issue for millions of our citizens. energy efficiency is surely the most cost-effective way of meeting some of the energy challenges we face, and the commission has come up with a very comprehensive action plan on energy consumption and energy efficiency. it is imperative that we try to make the european union the most energy-efficient economy in the world by 2020. this is a great example of a situation where we already have reams of legislation in place and member states are ignoring the laws that they have signed up to. we have to reach a stage where we cut our energy consumption by 20%. implementation on this is absolutely crucial and i would like to ask you, commissioner, what further steps we can take. you suggested that we are going to initiate more infringement proceedings – but can we do more to name and shame member states that are not implementing the laws that they have signed up to? for too long, many member states have been more concerned about getting the best deal for their national energy champions than helping or providing benefits for the consumer. why is it that in the uk last year 19% of the public switched energy companies, while in france the figure was less than 2%? is it because all the citizens in france and in germany are happy with their energy suppliers? i doubt it. i suggest that it is because it is extremely difficult for many companies to access these markets because of some companies’ in-built vested interests in keeping others out. that is why we have to do something very serious in opening up and unbundling the energy networks. when you arrive in the uk on the eurostar, the first sign you see is a huge sign which says that électricité de france is giving power to millions of londoners. i dream of the day when i can get off the train in paris and read a sign that says: ‘centrica – still not in russian hands – providing power to millions of parisians’. i am afraid that day is a long way off. security of supply and sustainability have to go hand-in-hand. we have to use mechanisms such as the emissions trading scheme to drive the economy. energy mix is up to member states, but let us be sensible and acknowledge that the energy mix in one country will affect others, and that is why we need targets on cutting co2 emissions by 30% by 2020. we are insistent on binding sectoral targets of 25% in renewable energies. that means no less than a revolution in the way that many member states produce their energy. we spend pitiful amounts on research and development and we have to work towards a truly common european energy policy in external affairs. i would like to thank the other political parties, in particular mr reul, mrs ek, mr turmes and mr seppänen for their contributions and their support in this debate. i hope, commissioner, you will take on some of our ideas and we look forward to receiving your ideas on the strategic energy review in the new year.
mr president, there are over 100 clauses in this report on energy security, and nearly all of them call on the commission to do something: to fix the carbon trading scheme, to foster investment in the european energy market, to encourage energy efficiency, to do more and more. the commission is going to be busy. i want to question two assumptions about this ambitious programme. first, it is assumed that the commission somehow has the ability to address all these problems, as if it had a magic wand. second, it is assumed that the eu member states can be persuaded to cooperate. they will cooperate, as long as it is in their interest to do so, for instance, in selling surplus power – at a profit – to neighbours. but when national energy security is at stake, all the commission’s powers will not be enough, and nations will look after themselves. compare the ‘cooperation’ over fishing that has brought several common species close to extinction. my biggest worry, however, is that so much of what we are asking for, such as trying to meet impossible targets for carbon dioxide and renewables, pays little regard to the economic cost. i fear that implementation of many of the recommendations in this report will be as economically damaging as the reach directive, which this chamber triumphantly approved yesterday.
mr president, you cannot have an open market in energy and a workable policy of energy-sharing without transparent competition. the commission's green paper recognises this. however, on the island of ireland, as part of a wider british isles and european project, the opportunities for a free and fair market are being stifled by the state domination of the republic of ireland's market by the esb. its near-monopoly of both generation and distribution must be broken, as it is keeping others out of the market and smothering competition. i have to say that the dublin government has been most tardy in moving to break this monopoly. i call today on the commission to be more robust in demanding delivery of this necessary change. with monopoly goes subsidised inefficiency and higher prices and so it would be for consumers in my constituency of northern ireland if we became a minority part of an energy market dominated by an unreformed esb. we cannot have that!
i would like to congratulate my colleague eluned morgan on an excellent report which points the way towards a ‘green’ energy policy for europe. i particularly support her call for a radical reform of the emissions trading scheme to create a low carbon economy driven by a set target for a reduction of eu carbon emissions of 30% by 2020 and 60-80% by 2050. she is correct to call for enhanced r&d on clean energy technologies and for a step-change in energy efficiency. i hope when eu leaders meet next march to discuss energy policy they all have a copy of this report in front of them and that they take its recommendations seriously.
rapporteur. – mr president, as every year in this major exercise, there are a few technical corrections that need to be made at this stage. i will be very brief. i think the vote also will be as brief as i have known it. firstly, on amendment 328 to line 22 02 02 ‘transition and institution-building assistance to potential candidate countries’: this is accepted with + eur 2 million for commitments and payments. these eur 2 million are taken from line 19 05 01 ‘cooperation with industrialised non-member countries’. as a result, amendment 314 to line 19 05 01 is withdrawn. secondly, eur 5 million in commitments and payments is added to line 16 02 02: ‘multimedia actions’. thirdly, eur 400 000 in commitments and payments is added to line 15 04 47: ‘european year for intercultural dialogue’. with regard to the amounts in reserve which are released: amendment 302 to line 16 03 02 – ‘local actions’ – the reserve is lifted; amendment 251 on ‘european schools’ – line 26 01 50 23; lastly, amendment 330 to 28 01 01 – ‘staff in active employment in the audit policy area’. as regards epso, that is amendment 255: it is replaced by an amendment to reduce the amounts in reserve to 25% of the appropriations on the relevant budget lines. finally, to take account of a problem on pre-accession assistance which arose from the council’s reading, and which we were not able to pick up quickly enough, we ask the commission at the end of paragraph 25 of the resolution, ‘to present a transfer request or amending budget during the course of 2007 if the amounts foreseen in the 2007 budget turn out to be insufficient’. this concerns budget line 05 05 01 01. i recommend that we vote on these particular elements which i have put forward as technical adjustments.
mr president, this vote adapts our procedures to take full advantage of the new powers of the european parliament in the context of the comitology procedure, new powers that were secured earlier this year through the interinstitutional agreement negotiated by mr daul and myself. it means that, when we confer implementing powers on the commission through the legislation we adopt under the codecision procedure, any subsequent implementing measures of a quasi-legislative nature can be vetoed by parliament. this is the most important increase in the powers of the european parliament since the treaty of nice and probably the only significant increase during this legislature. the new rule will facilitate our use of this new power.
mr president, i received this information too late to add it to the resolution. mr gao zhisheng, a distinguished human rights attorney in beijing who was arrested in august, has been tried secretly this week and imprisoned. i am sure the house would wish to express its regret at that news, part of a continued crackdown on human rights activists in china. (applause)
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur on putting together a package which found a large majority across the house. in 22 years as a member, this is the shortest budget vote i can recall. i regret that parliament has agreed a number of reductions in order to stay within budgetary limits. in particular i think it very unfortunate that we have reduced the budget for ‘aid for trade’. this is a vital budget line to assist developing countries connect with the global trading system.
in writing. mr president, i am delighted to support the establishment of this fund for refugees. too often we see refugees being ignored and at the end of member state priorities, and it is only right that where member states fall down the union should step in to ensure our standards are maintained. this report takes us closer to a coherent system and i am pleased to support it.
in writing. i support the measures on double-hulling that should help diminish maritime pollution from oil tankers, which are particularly important for the yorkshire coast and the humber estuary.
in writing. mr president, this package on double hull oil tankers has been a long time coming, though i am pleased to support it today. we saw in scotland the disaster that the wreck of the braer inflicted upon the shetland islands and we must do all we can to ensure the safety of our european marine environment and our coastlines. the eu must impose high standards on these international operators, and this report takes us some of the way there.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the establishment of a european institute for gender equality. the commission’s feasibility study concluded that there is a clear role for such an institute. the proposed agency would be small, with a staff of 10 or so. the overall objective of the institute will be to assist the community institutions, in particular the commission, and the authorities of the member states in the fight against discrimination based on sex and the promotion of gender equality and to raise eu citizens’ awareness of gender equality.
in writing. today i voted to reject the council's common position on the proposed package for a european driving licence system. national transport issues are a matter for national governments and, accordingly, each member state should be free to determine its own rules and criteria on drivers' licences. in no way does this over-bureaucratic and over-regulatory proposal appear to improve road safety records and therefore i consider it to be another unnecessary and unjustifiable piece of legislation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the grosch report, which aims to recast the driving licences directive to have all rules on driving licences in one document and thus make them more transparent and accessible to the citizen. if these proposals find their way into law they should end the practice of driving licence tourism, where an individual banned in one member state obtains a licence in another member state. i know many motorcyclists are concerned about the minimum age of 24 years for access to more powerful machines. i hope they will find the compromise of allowing them access at an earlier age if they have sufficient experience acceptable, as that keeps safety at the top of our concerns.
in writing. mr president, i support this report with a few reservations, namely that i am not convinced that the certification of drivers should be dealt with on an eu level, provided there is suitable recognition of standards from other eu members. i am sceptical of concerns that have been expressed by the anti-european right that this package would introduce id cards by the back door, but i do have some sympathy with the idea that this package is answering a need not in fact felt on the ground.
in writing. my colleague richard corbett is undoubtedly parliament’s leading expert on constitutional matters. i welcome this latest report which amends the rules of procedure to bring them in line with the new agreement on comitology. while this can be seen as a technical matter it is in fact highly political because the way we adapt our rules directly impacts on our ability to influence eu legislation. richard has always been adept at maximising parliament’s influence.
mr president, you will have noticed that this report, this change to our rules, was adopted by a majority of only seven votes. it was very close. i think that is indicative of the feeling of this chamber that this is a change that was not strictly necessary to our rules, but one that has been brought in on a temporary basis – there is a sunset clause and it expires at the end of this legislature – to help with the particularly difficult situation that we have now. i think the lesson of this close vote is that any attempt at the end of this legislature to prolong the life of having a fourth vice-president for each committee and a sixth quaestor would be doomed to failure, and i would advise against it.
in writing. i voted against the leinen report on amending the rules of procedure to increase the number of committee vice-chairmen from three to four and the number of quaestors from five to six. i think it is frankly ludicrous to have four vice-chairs per committee. there is no obvious role for a fourth vice-chair and this increase is simply political expediency to ensure that group leaders have enough jobs to hand round to keep key supporters happy. as for the increase in quaestors, this may be marginally more justified but i think it dangerous to have an even number of quaestors.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which is an adaptation to the new comitology procedure. even though this is a technical report i wish to stress my backing for the content, which ensures that medicines and other products for children are tailored to their needs and not simply variations (i.e. lower doses) of adult medicines.
in writing. i warmly welcome this report, which sets out to establish a european procedure for small claims. it is intended to simplify and speed up litigation concerning small claims (up to eur 2000) and reduce the costs for litigants. the fact that it is easier in some countries for creditors to pursue claims creates a distortion in the single market, so i welcome this attempt to create a level playing field.
in writing. i fully support the objectives of this report on preventing and fighting crime. the specific programme ‘prevention and fight against crime 2007-2013’ is a welcome attempt to contribute to a high level of security for citizens by preventing and combating crime, organised or otherwise, in particular terrorism, trafficking in persons and offences against children, illicit drug trafficking and illicit arms trafficking, corruption and fraud. clearly all these activities have a cross-border aspect to them and therefore eu coordination can bring real added value to domestic law enforcement efforts.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report which deals with assistance and cooperation in the area of nuclear safety between the community and third countries, mainly states in eastern europe and central asia. it aims at establishing an instrument for nuclear safety and security assistance. the chernobyl accident in 1986 highlighted the global importance of nuclear safety. in order to create the conditions of safety necessary to eliminate hazards to life and health the eu should be able to support nuclear safety in third countries. this report strikes the right balance by allowing the eu to promote the use of safer technologies and methods while not relieving third countries of their duty to ensure that nuclear plants on their territory operate safely and environmentally responsibly.
in writing. i supported the commission’s proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of member states and those whose nationals are exempt from the requirement, but we must have exemption for persons who are not nationals of any country, who reside in a member state and who are holders of an alien’s passport, a non-citizen’s passport or another travel document issued by that member state.
in writing. although we fully support democracy and we condemn human rights abuses, we do not recognise the european union's moral or political authority to make pronouncements in this area.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, it gives me no pleasure to say that the alde group voted the wrong way on amendment 1, by the ppe-de group, to the roure report. we should have voted against this amendment and it was a sheer mistake on the voting list. i accept that, technically, the amendment went through and there is nothing we can do about that, but i would say that, politically, the vote does not represent the will of the house, which was expressed in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on monday evening, when a similar amendment was wholeheartedly rejected. nothing can be done about that, but the position of the alde group remains that we will not agree to the vis regulation unless and until we have an adequate framework decision on data protection, and we are utterly committed to everything that mrs roure, as rapporteur, is doing to seek to promote that decision on data protection. we wholeheartedly support her, and the fact that we did not express it on this occasion is a technical – i could use a ruder word – mistake for which, i am afraid, a number of us probably bear responsibility. we will try to ensure that no such mistake ever happens again, but the way we voted did not represent our actual position on amendment 1.
in writing. i voted in favour of the morgan report on european energy strategy. i am convinced it points the right way forward for a sustainable, competitive and secure energy policy for europe and one that the heads of government would do well to take careful note of when they meet in march to discuss the future of eu energy policy. my one disappointment is that the parliament was not stronger on the need to ‘unbundle’ energy ownership to avoid conflicts of interest and to create a more level playing field for energy competition.
in writing. in voting for this report i voted to put consumers at the centre of energy policy alongside an effective approach to dealing with harmful emissions such as co2. the effectiveness of a sensible carbon tax trading scheme depends upon internationalising the market. furthermore, strong targets for 2020-2050 for reduction of co2 emissions as pronounced in this report are the only reasonable way ahead. however, tidying up the ets in both methodology and targets is something the eu must crucially put into action to remain a world leader in both working for a cleaner environment as well as sustaining a pan-european energy policy. there is a danger that unless action is taken now then both our environment and our energy security will be under threat.
in writing. mr president, i wholeheartedly congratulate our rapporteur ms morgan on this report, and am grateful that she has taken so many amendments which specifically answer scottish concerns. the union's energy markets are increasingly interlinked and interdependent, and it is right that an eu framework be created to ensure that our consumers benefit from our common market. from a scottish perspective, we have a particular stake in the energy debate given our massive energy resources and even greater energy potential. that potential is currently being held back by the shortsightedness of the uk government, and this report will help us, from the eu side, to hold them to account.
in writing. mr president, i congratulate our rapporteur for negotiating this complex area. biomass and biofuels are of massive global potential, yet the growth of this sector must at all times be managed sensitively. i am sure i am not alone in receiving correspondence from many constituents worried that an unforeseen consequence of this policy could be the decimation of tropical rainforest to make way for biofuel monocultivation. i believe this report, as amended, takes due account of these concerns and am happy to support it today.
mr president, i have come to this issue only recently, but i am nonetheless surprised that those who tabled this oral question apparently want to stick so steadfastly to what is, essentially, an outmoded system of law relating to securities. it works adequately in a european context, but we are now concerned with participating fully in a global market, and the hague convention is designed to provide legal certainty in modern – global – circumstances, where securities are, more often than not, held indirectly via mostly electronic-based intermediaries. it defines the law as that specifically agreed by the participants, rather than by location of account, and, in these modern electronic conditions and in a system where there could well be multiple intermediaries, this seems a sensible solution. the commission has, therefore, concluded that the best solution is to sign up to the convention. indeed, it came to this conclusion after being asked by the council to investigate the legal implications, which it has now done. the hague conference on private international law has been working since 1893 to harmonise international private law, and, on 5 july this year, the usa and switzerland – not just the usa, but also switzerland – were the first countries to sign the convention. the commission has recommended that the eu member states should also sign it. many of the other 64 member states of the conference are preparing to sign up to it. instead, the member states of the european union seem unwilling to come to terms with reality, and we in europe have as much, if not more, interest in achieving certainty in this area if we are to participate fully in today’s global financial markets. it will surely be critical in achieving an effective and efficient clearing and settlement system. so please, colleagues, let us encourage the commission and member states to accede to this convention. europe should be in the vanguard of modernising and harmonising the legal context for securities. the commission is prepared to provide the necessary amendments to community law, so, surely, we should encourage – indeed, insist – that our member states reach agreement and proceed to sign, and then ratify, this important convention.
author. – mr president, yet again we are confronted with a coup d’état in fiji. fiji has now suffered four coups d’état in the last ten years and the latest one is based on the most unbelievable logic of commander bainimarama, who says that he took action to have a coup because the democratically elected government of fiji was going to pardon the previous coup leaders. the logic of this beggars belief but, whatever internal differences there may be between the fijian leaders, it should not damage the fragile democracy of this pacific island state. the european union, together with australia and new zealand, spent a considerable amount of money and resources to ensure that a fair and free election took place in fiji in may 2006. the government of the prime minister came in with a considerable majority. it is a unique constitution, under which the ethnic element – ethnic indians and indigenous fijians – shares power. all that has been put at risk by the commander of the army taking the law into his own hands. no commander of any army has the right to take any law into his own hands and subvert the course of democracy. therefore, i ask parliament and my colleagues to send a strong signal that we will stop non-humanitarian aid. we will tell the european population who want to go on holiday in a country like fiji that they should not until democracy is restored. we must send a signal to the fijians that we are in complete solidarity with them on this very important issue of freedom, democracy and justice.
author. – mr president, those of us active in these human rights debates will recognise the subject of this one with depressing familiarity. the situation in burma is getting worse not better, as colleagues have said, and i echo everything that has been said thus far. in our view this motion could have been better. however, there is one provision i would highlight and that is the paragraph recognising that the sanctions against the regime in force are not hitting the target and on occasion not being observed at all. the council must ensure that all our member states are observing the sanctions we have agreed and, if not, name and shame those falling down. we must put pressure on our international partners to put pressure on the burmese government itself. paragraph 9 states that we want to see the sanctions widened, but we must always target them against the specific individuals in the regime and avoid doing harm to the people of burma, because the suffering of the people must be our main concern, not our distaste for the democratic standards of the regime itself. that is where this motion really could be better. we wanted to see an explicit recognition of the 8 december briefing by the international crisis group and i shall quote the opening line: ‘with growing signs of a humanitarian crisis in-the-making in myanmar, the international community needs to get beyond debates about the country’s highly repressive political system.’ caught in the middle of the grand geopolitics along with the people of burma are the ngos active on the ground trying to ameliorate the situation for the citizens of that unhappy country. we must in all our efforts remember that we must not undermine their independence, their efforts or ability to help the people. the recent closure of five red cross centres, an organisation that prides itself on its impartiality and integrity, is a desperate act by the burmese government, but one that was carried out because of a suspicion that the ngos are too close to western policy. we must in all our actions on this ensure that we do not cut down their scope for manoeuvre. therefore, in welcoming and supporting this resolution, my group would also sound a note of caution that the people on the ground trying to help those most affected by the situation must not have their freedom of movement curtailed by our actions.
mr president, last thursday we adopted a number of changes to the rules of procedure, including the change to the new procedure on comitology, to take advantage of the biggest increase in the powers of parliament since the treaty of nice. i understand that a new edition of the rules of procedure is to be published soon. may i urge that it be distributed in january if at all possible and can i also ask that it be completed with the adaptation of the various numbers in the rules that have to be adapted automatically, without a vote in parliament, to take account of the new size of the european parliament? as you know, we shall be increasing in numbers in january.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the monty python team once very uncharitably described finland as a poor second to belgium when going abroad. prime minister, you and your government have shown that finland is a poor second to none when it comes to running a european union presidency. thank you for your work in bringing europe closer to its citizens. following on from the comitology agreement with the austrians, you have opened legislation to public scrutiny. i believe that 86% of legislative decisions under your presidency have been taken in public: a total of 90 decisions compared with only 17 last year. that is a great step forward and i hope that the german presidency will take it further by getting agreement among member states to publish the correlation tables so that we can see how member states put into national law decisions taken at european level and make a fair comparison. prime minister, you also have to your credit an agreement on reach, an agreement on the services directive, on which thankfully – whatever mr schulz says – we defeated all the socialist rapporteur’s amendments, an agreement on next year’s budget and an agreement to bring bulgaria and romania into our union. liberals and democrats also salute your efforts to try to get agreement on the footbridge article 42 clause and we regret that this was not possible at the lahti summit, but we therefore disagree with paragraph 3 of the presidency conclusions, which says that the union is ‘making best use of the possibilities offered by the existing treaties to deliver concrete results’. it is clearly not making best use of the possibilities, as you recognise a few paragraphs later, when we say that responding to the expectations of citizens is difficult with the existing decision-making procedures and that the framework needs to be strengthened. i hope the german presidency will get agreement on article 42. we cannot wait for a new treaty and our message to chancellor merkel must be: europa muss handlungsfähig sein. justice and home affairs is just one example of where such progress is needed. we have talked a lot about migratory flows. hitherto, too much of the focus has been on security and too little on the economic or humanitarian aspects of these flows. we therefore welcome the recognition in the presidency conclusions of the wider aspects, particularly the link between development policy and immigration policy and the need for a legal migration policy opening up the front door a little, in order better to close the back door to illegal migration. more work is needed on illegal migration. it is no good just to have a rapid enhancement of frontex or permanent coastal patrols. they are only part of the answer. we need to know why people are coming. if you look at the other things you discussed at the summit about sudan, if the european union really recognised the new un doctrine of the duty to protect, fewer people would be moving out of sudan. palestine, lebanon, afghanistan. unless we are able to provide security and good government and life chances for people there, they will continue to move. it is no coincidence that some of these countries are the countries of origin of the greatest numbers heading towards our shores. perhaps the most important outcome of the summit is paragraph 5: a strong statement on how enlargement has been a success. clearly if one looks at the eurobarometer published last week, that message has not got through to our citizens. we need leadership from our heads of state and government telling people what a success enlargement has been and how continued enlargement will be needed, once we have our constitutional arrangements in place. if leadership is needed on enlargement it is needed, too, in ending the isolation of the turkish cypriots. on reading the sections in the presidency conclusions we see too much leadership has been left to the united states. we are particularly concerned about the eurojust arrangements signed with the usa. perhaps if we had the passerelle in foreign and security policy, we would be able to promote european values further and better. your presidency has, in our view, been a success and we hope the return to the land of santa claus will allow you a good rest next week, undisturbed, i hope, by the clatter of reindeer hooves. mr poettering has given his final speech to this house. he has been a fair, frank, and i am pleased to say federalist companion. the european parliament needs an ideological majority rather than a große koalition. we were pleased to work with him in an ideological majority for a while. he will find that thisinhaltlose zweisamkeit ist nur einsamkeit zu zweit. nonetheless, we wish him all the best for the future, whatever he ends up doing. (laughter and applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, my congratulations to mr vanhanen and the finnish presidency. you have passed the test. you have proved yourselves to be good europeans and you have done so by ratifying the eu constitution through your own parliament, ignoring the fact that in a recent opinion poll only one in four of your population supported that course of action. so mr barroso must be very pleased with you. your presidency sums up the whole eu project: an exercise in political dishonesty, where the views of ordinary people count for very little. well, the constitution may be dead, but its contents most certainly are not and your presidency conclusions talk about the need for further enlargement. under justice and home affairs you – and we heard mr barroso earlier – talk about the need to improve decision-making. well, that word means more power for the european union. you praise the idea of a common energy policy and increasing activism in foreign affairs. carry on regardless! that has been the policy of the finnish presidency and you now hand over to angela merkel and the german presidency and they are even more ambitious than you are. it is now clear that the plan is to come back with a new treaty. you are going to drop the dreaded c word. will the french and dutch be asked to vote again? no, of course they will not. that duty will fall to ireland and possibly denmark and you – nearly all of you in this room, all the eu institutions – will do everything they can with taxpayers’ money to bully those small countries into submission. in britain it will not wash. we have already gone a treaty too far and the voice of the people will be heard. we have seen this morning in this eu parliament self-congratulation and backslapping. you all ought to be very thankful that the proceedings in this chamber get so little press coverage. i think the general public of europe would be appalled! thank you, and a happy christmas to everybody. (laughter)
mr president, i rise if only to show that not all brits agree with the somewhat eccentric views expressed by mr farage just now. monsieur farage claims that it is somehow wrong for the presidency – any presidency presumably – to try to find a solution to the constitutional treaty. in his argument he says that the people have said no. yet he only wants to listen to the answer that suits him. he only wants to listen to those who have said no. he fails to recognise that 18 member states have said yes, even where a referendum was held. if you add them all together, more people have said yes than have voted no, so it is right to persevere and find a compromise. that compromise must take account of the views of those who said no, but it must also take account of the large majority who have said yes. (applause)
mr president, europe will gain the support of its citizens by coming up with practical initiatives that respond to what they expect from us. the finnish presidency has rightly given priority to a number of those initiatives: to safer chemicals, to cleaner cars and to creating jobs through the services directive, for which i particularly thank them. let us remember, colleagues – contrary to the rhetoric of mr schulz in particular – that the most important thing we can deliver for social europe is more jobs and economic growth, which is what the services directive will do. however, i want to make a plea to you, prime minister, in your role as a continuing member of the council. those directives that you got through will be effective only if the member states do their job properly and if they transpose them quickly and effectively. will you guarantee to put them on the agenda at council level to ensure that your work is not wasted by ineffective and inefficient work by member governments?
mr president, first i wish to congratulate the finnish presidency on completing romanian and bulgarian accession. however, unlike most speakers in the house, i am glad mr vanhanen maintained unanimity on justice and home affairs, an area seen by countries, particularly my own united kingdom, as one of delicate national sovereignty. i am also grateful he accepted some of my report’s amendments on higher duty-free allowances coming into the european union from third countries by air or sea. the council was also right to suspend eight chapters of the turkish accession process, but now more must be done to help end the isolation of the northern turkish cypriot community. i agree that it is also right to get tough and speak toughly with russia. it is also a great idea to negotiate free trade agreements with asian democracies such as india. lastly, enlargement in the western balkans, in particular croatia, is now a german presidency priority, but we do not need a full-blown eu constitution to achieve that.
