mr president, there are some national governments which do not accept the institutional role of the european parliament. they believe that the european parliament is 'moving' on a smaller scale than the national parliaments. let me get this straight: the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be elected by the european parliament. the greek government is revising the constitution. he invited the parties in the greek parliament and he did not invite the parties in the european parliament. that's clearly a reduction. i would therefore like to hear your intervention so that national governments can see the role of the european parliament in the right way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it is unacceptable that the greek government does not accept our party, which has received 4.5% here and 6% in the polls, as a candidate for debate, precisely because it feels that it is being hurt by our upward trend. so we want the right to democracy. we want the right to coexist. i would ask you very much to address the greek parliament, its president, and to make it clear that this is illegal and reckless.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are celebrating the year of mobility. mobility is understood as a change of workplace and also of the workplace. to make this change successful, certain resources are needed, perhaps the most important of which is multilingualism. we cannot therefore understand why the knowledge of the languages of the country of origin of european citizens living in other countries of the european union is not maintained by lessons in the mother tongue from infancy and school age, so that this acquisition can be preserved and exploited, both by the host country and by the country of origin and the european union as a whole. i hope that the european commission will strengthen the teaching of the languages of the mother tongue of migrant workers.
mr president, on wednesday 12 january a large popular rally was held in the town of rethymno, crete, to condemn racism and xenophobia following the murder of a young albanian migrant worker. in a few days, an event will be organized in barcelona to condemn racism in sports, especially in football stadiums, which is taking dangerous proportions. i propose, mr president, that you take the initiative with the austrian presidency and the european commission to discuss at the spring european council in march a comprehensive strategy to combat racism and xenophobia, including measures and short-term and long-term policies. it will be a symbolic and substantive initiative to link policies for economic development, the fight against unemployment and poverty with policies against racism and xenophobia.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank mrs catania. i think that this contribution is particularly articulate and valuable and i believe that - after the maastricht treaty which introduced the concept of european citizenship, and after the value added by the draft constitutional treaty - the time has come to put the human being at the centre of rights and duties, and therefore, if i may say so, at the heart of the european integration process. the report starts from the consideration that european citizens, as confirmed by the regular eurobarometer surveys, attach great importance to the concept of citizenship, so much so that, as in a few other fields - again according to eurobarometer - as many as 70% of european citizens know what the principle of european citizenship is. the problem is that many of them have no clear idea of what rights and duties they derive from it. i therefore welcome the work being done in this direction. for example, i'll quote a very strange fact: more than two thirds of europeans believe that so-called european citizenship automatically confers the right to vote in national elections in the country of residence. it is therefore necessary to clarify these points and, as proposed in the report, to clarify them explicitly. the right of citizens to information is a very important area on which the commission is already working. efforts are already being made to improve information for citizens, and the subject i shall be dealing with is the transposition of the new directive on the right of residence of european citizens, so that when member states transpose it into national law, the aspect of transparent information is strengthened. the point concerning non-european citizens, that is, third-country nationals legally resident in the union, is also very significant. i am personally very much in favour of the integration of third-country nationals who are legally resident and working in the eu, and this is also the commission's policy. i have published - and of course parliament will discuss - a proposal for a european strategy on integration, which is based on the principle that, at european level, citizenship requires - for those who, although not european citizens, want to live, work and reside legally in europe - a framework of rights and duties. i believe that this is the starting point of mr catania's report and that this is the path that should be encouraged. it is clear that alongside rights, as everyone understands, there are duties. it is therefore true that the gradual assimilation of non-europeans to european citizens in the name of residence must be accompanied by clear respect for the laws of the countries of residence and those guiding european principles which are also enshrined in the european charter of fundamental rights. all this is part of the integration programme which we will be dealing with in 2006 and which i hope to define with the agreement of the council and parliament. an important first step is to grant longterm residents a residence permit and freedom of movement within the union: it is a directive which must be transposed by 23 january this year the deadline is therefore in a few days and i am exerting political pressure so that all member states transpose the legislative text in question and issue residence permits to non-european citizens who have been legally resident in europe for more than five years. it is clear that there will have to be a thorough discussion on the concept of european citizenship of residence. i am convinced that it is possible - perhaps without changing the structure of the treaties, which do not provide for the link between european citizenship and residence - to start from a concept of civic citizenship, that is, linked to the territory and the place where one works and lives. i believe that this can be achieved without introducing rigid concepts which could - or perhaps should - lead to the need to amend the treaties. the concept of european citizenship is not based on residence but, since it is enshrined in the treaties, if we want to introduce a new concept, we must change it too. but since the objective is right, i think we should consider a territorial reference of the area of rights and duties: in the integration plan i have proposed, it is not by chance that mayors, provincial presidents and regional governors are identified as the main interlocutors of integration policy, even more so than the member states, because it is precisely where the citizen is most closely involved - whether in the community or outside it - that the importance of the individual is understood, the right to education, to language instruction and to participation in local political life. it's all about the territory. this is the strategy on which i am ready to work, if parliament adopts its position.
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up on the basis of the following four points: mr president, with the fourth report on citizenship the european commission is fulfilling its obligation under article 22 of the treaty on european union to submit every three years to the european institutions a report on the application of the provisions of part two of the treaty entitled 'european citizenship'. the fourth report presents the developments in the rights conferred by citizenship of the union. it is worth noting that all the reports on citizenship have so far been on the europe of 15. and we hope that the next report will give a comprehensive picture of today's europe of 25. the catania report does not, however, present all the developments in the specific areas which, together with the right to equal treatment, constitute the specific character of citizenship, such as freedom of movement, citizens' participation in voting for the european parliament and in municipal elections, the provision of information to citizens and, above all, the provision of information to young people who will be the heart of the union in the future. in approaching the report within the remit of the committee on petitions, we have emphasized the right of referral to the european parliament and the right of complaint to the european ombudsman. we are pleased with the way in which the rapporteur has incorporated our proposals, apart from omitting the proposal for the implementation of the code of good administrative behaviour. however, the report stresses in paragraph 32 the importance of the right to good administration and the right of access to documents as defined in title v of the charter of fundamental rights. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide system of criminal justice, which would be based on the principle of the rule of law, and the establishment of a european union-wide system of criminal justice. the use of the right to apply to the european ombudsman also requires that citizens be informed and that the european commission's means be used to improve understanding of european citizenship.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. article 17 of the treaty is clear and specifies who can acquire citizenship of the european union. we cannot ignore that. if we want to make legal constructions, if we want to make constructions which are not based on this particular provision, that is another matter. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would also say that since citizenship of the union has undoubtedly become a source of real and concrete rights, it must be subject to clear and concrete rules for its acquisition. i'm glad mr. catania turned down his own child tonight. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the tax on the use of energy. it is not the case that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but that it has been consulted on the matter. the european people's party rejects these positions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. answer yourself.
the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as long as some people still see immigrants as second-class citizens, as long as they believe that if you do not have european blood you can never have european rights, as long as instead of integrating immigrants, they want to keep them indefinitely in a grey area, then migration risks turning from europe's great hope into its great time bomb. the debate on european citizenship, as commissioner frattini has rightly said, is directly linked to the harmonious integration of immigrants and the great question of citizenship policy. the party i come from in greece, pasok, has institutionalized the participation of immigrants in all its organs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. it supports the participation of long-term immigrants in local elections. we must open our minds to europe and i thank mr catania very much because his report allows us to have a meaningful political debate and to touch on issues that many conservatives in europe do not seem to want to touch on.
madam president, human trafficking, especially trafficking in women and children, is as old as human societies. it is also true that the practice, although almost always condemned and considered to be degrading to man's position in relation to other living beings, has never been effectively tackled in any period and in any culture, not even in our own european one. the prets report is, on the one hand, another attempt to highlight the ineffectiveness of national and community legislation and action. i congratulate the author on her methodical and realistic presentation and the committee on women's rights on the final drafting of a comprehensive text, full of proposals, for the development of effective actions not only at european but also at world level. i congratulate you, commissioner, on the comprehensive approach you have taken in your recent communication and on the council's action plan. i would like to stress the highlight of the report for me, although i am aware of the difficulties and limitations of the treaties, namely the call for a clear legal basis to combat all forms of violence and trafficking in women and children and for full community involvement in a horizontal european policy to prevent and protect victims in the areas of migration, employment, trade and banking, transport, tourism and new technologies, the use of which can make trafficking and exploitation uncontrollable and persecution impossible. another hopeful point is the report's call for closer cooperation between national authorities and europol and eurojust by improving international operational cooperation. it is regrettable that the states have not yet rushed without hesitation to ratify and implement international treaties and conventions. the community institutions are also called upon to ensure coordination and coherence in the activities of the international fora. in conclusion, i would stress the report's reference to the need to act by means less costly but fundamental to the future of the civilized world: i am referring to the educational programmes which will be able to lead boys and girls to self-respect and consequently to respect for their fellow men, so that they will not become either perpetrators or victims.
madam president, commissioner, i should first like to congratulate mrs prets on her own-initiative report which aims to highlight the great moral and political problem of trafficking in human beings for sexual exploitation. despite the difficulty of collecting statistics, the numbers are staggering, whether it is the number of people trafficked, especially women, who are victims of sexual exploitation, or the revenue generated by this activity. the issue is not new, but it is worth asking how european societies and the wider civilised world tolerate and even maintain these phenomena. the reasons are many and the responsibilities are at all levels. the first responsibility lies with society, since sexual exploitation is not forced but is a result of the law of supply and demand. secondly, the state, since the member states have failed to control and deal with these phenomena and their impact on human victims. but the european union has also failed to rise to the challenge of creating a common area of justice and security. the european union has certainly played a positive role in raising awareness, in cooperation and in tackling the phenomenon. the 2002 framework decision and the 2004 directive have contributed to some legislative harmonisation and wider cooperation. we must continue in this direction. this crime is growing transnational. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we must continue to integrate and communitize our policies, which are increasingly necessary to accompany the single market and free movement. i would also like to reiterate the importance of a common definition of crime in order to be able to collect statistics, the european arrest warrant, a clear legal basis, so that our policies, as well as the community and national budgets, can acquire european added value and effectiveness.
madam president, i would like to congratulate rapporteur christa prets on both the initiative of the report and her sensitivity to a social issue of global significance. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the words "human trafficking", "sexual exploitation", "forced prostitution" at both the national and global levels, carry risks of a pandemic similar to that which poverty and hunger, in developing countries mostly, have created in the lower strata of these societies. women and children are the victims. i agree that criminal networks operate in many parts of the world. new electronic technologies provide immunity to these circuits. many times with our own tolerance. but when brutal tactics such as coercion, coercion, abduction and threats are used against vulnerable communities, especially women and minors, then i think it is unthinkable to remain indifferent and dissociated from the phenomenon of violence, the violation of human dignity and our fundamental rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected, and that the european union's financial interests are protected. in conclusion, i would point out that major international events such as the olympic games, the football championship, for example the world cup in germany next summer, are the hosts of such incidents. the rapporteur is right to point out that the roots of the problem are deep and that in such cases the best remedy is prevention, vigilance in the countries hosting such sporting events and, above all, information for the citizens who are the shield of society, women and children. i would like to ask mr frattini whether the commission is doing anything about this.
member of the commission. mr president, just to take up on the last point, i attach very great importance to encouraging and facilitating parliamentary involvement in trade matters. this is a relationship which is very important to me, and i hope that our debate this evening is a further demonstration of that. i am determined to keep these close and regular contacts between us going in the future. indeed, as i look round the chamber this evening i see that many of us were in hong kong together. this is a sort of early reunion and a good time to take stock. you asked me to give my evaluation of the results of the hong kong meeting and say what conclusions can be drawn from it. i want to do that. you have also asked me to set out my views on the next steps that should be taken. i will give you my preliminary views, but i also want the members of this house to give me their opinions and reflections in turn, in order to shape my own views. therefore, my reflection, which is very topical and an active process, means that this debate comes at just the right time. i am going to meet other members here in strasbourg tomorrow. i cannot pretend that the hong kong conference was a staggering success: it was not. according to the wto director-general, mr lamy, we moved from 55% to 60% achievement of the round. that was pretty small incremental progress, and it certainly is a very expensive 5%. if you consider how many people were in hong kong and how much it cost them to get there and stay there – not to mention the sleep deprivation whilst there! – it was indeed a very costly 5%. however, it was enough to avoid failure and to prevent the dda train from derailing. so it was a good investment; it was worth it. we have to bear in mind that expectations had been significantly lowered before we arrived in hong kong. we were not expecting breakthroughs and we were not disappointed. modest incremental progress was the best that could be expected and that is what happened. as for the european union, we ourselves made the best out of what was at times a very difficult situation. when i say ‘we’, i mean all of us – the commission, parliament and the council. it must be said – and i wish to place on record my gratitude for it – that the support for, and the high level of trust and confidence that was placed in, europe’s negotiators was of immense importance, value and encouragement to us. it was important to our collective european credibility and i believe it will be equally important in the months to come. at hong kong we found ourselves at times under very carefully orchestrated political pressure either to concede further unilateral concessions or to accept blame for failure. in the event, we did neither: we did not give unilateral concessions, nor were we subsequently blamed. nonetheless, we made an important contribution, which was recognised as such, by accepting 2013 as the date for the final elimination of all agricultural export subsidies. in doing so we did not cross our red lines; we remained united and we emerged with both credit and credibility. that is not a negligible achievement. europe was firm and reasonable and that is how i should like to characterise what i intend to be our future role and performance: firm and reasonable. one important achievement in hong kong was agreement on the development package, which was made possible by the determined pressure we had placed on other developed countries in the months prior to hong kong. still, i should have liked the united states, canada and japan to follow us all the way down our ‘everything but arms’ road, and go for an all-country, all-product, duty-free, quota-free approach, as we ourselves have granted to the least-developed countries. ninety-seven per cent – not one hundred per cent, as we in europe offer – is a major step forward. it seems generous, but it will actually allow developed countries to shield some key products that are of importance to a number of ldcs and i regret that. similarly, we made progress on cotton subsidies, but the final outcome was, again, disappointing in respect of the domestic subsidies operated in the united states. more generally, the outcome of hong kong leaves us with everything still to play for, and nothing in the final text prevents us from continuing to seek the kind of ambition and balance that have been our watchwords throughout this negotiation. after hong kong we can still continue to seek a round that is economically meaningful and pro-development. that means both more market access and stronger international trade rules for all. having said that, i will not hide from you that the road ahead will be tough for a number of reasons. firstly, there is a risk of some front-loading of negotiations on agriculture and nama – industrial goods – and then back-loading negotiations on services, rules and gis. this has to be minimised. secondly, a direct relationship has been established between market access for industrial goods and agricultural goods, which some wto members might be tempted to interpret as necessitating reduced new market access for industrial goods, as opposed to new market access for agricultural goods. we will be very vigilant on this. thirdly, and perhaps more fundamentally, it was not evident in hong kong that other important partners are ready yet to take the hard decisions, to make the offers and the contributions that will be needed if this round is to end on a successful note in a year’s time or beyond. until a sense of mutual responsibility and flexibility – without which we cannot make the trade-offs or the bargains needed to bring this round to a successful conclusion – is demonstrated by all the key negotiating partners, we will not be able to look forward to an early conclusion of this round. the dust is still settling and we are still evaluating our next moves with a cool head. as i have said, today’s debate will be a contribution to the analysis that we are undertaking. i want to share with you some further thoughts on this. we should be adamant in having the principle of the single undertaking respected. that is central to this round and to how the wto works. we should not abandon that principle. we should not accept further feet-dragging either in services, geographical indications or in rule-making areas, and the same is true for industrial goods. above all we need to engage with our partners to gauge the real level of ambition and see if our ambitious vision of the round is genuinely shared by them. i really hope this is the case. europe could settle, reluctantly and grudgingly, at the end of the day, for a minimalist outcome. we could do so if that is what the rest of the world wants. but i have to say to you that it would be a great shame, a great pity and a great loss to do so. it would not help our economies or others’ growth and employment, and it would not help reduce global poverty. that remains the aim of this round. so i will be engaging vigorously with all my partners in the weeks ahead to see if the negotiating material and the energy are still there for an ambitious and balanced outcome. however, i am not inclined to sacrifice quality for speed. i know that the united states trade promotion authority will expire in mid-2007, and i will do what i can to achieve ambitious outcomes within the timeframes that we agreed to work to in hong kong, but not if that means sacrificing european interests or those of weak and vulnerable developing countries, which also need to gain tangibly from this round. this round is not just about competitive, large-scale agricultural exporters but about the generality of developing countries, and their interests cannot be sacrificed for the sake of speed. importantly, we should be unambiguous in stating our aims, in particular towards the generality of developing countries. we should be more active in our bilateral and regional contacts and indicate clearly what we are requesting from our counterparts in the wto and what we are not requesting or expecting. for example, that for the vast majority of developing countries we can give a lot, but seek nothing or very little in return. this would avoid the misunderstandings – some genuine and some, i am afraid, wilfully encouraged – that can grow in the minds of some that this is a sort of extreme cantonist round in which we are trying to extract ounces of flesh from our negotiating partners who are not in a position to pay into this round. that is not the case; it has never been the case and it will not be the case in future. more generally, the development arguments need to be restated. reducing barriers to trade drives economic growth. it is not an unfair price to be paid by imposition on developing countries. at times in hong kong i felt that some developing country partners were simply not convinced that the progressive, properly supported opening of markets is good for development at all and that, instead, the panacea for all the developing world’s illnesses was simply the tearing-apart of the common agricultural policy. of course, agricultural liberalisation should take place and needs to catch up, but this round is not an agriculture-only round. since agriculture is less than 5% of world trade in goods and services, it is obvious that the biggest gains of this round lay elsewhere, not only for the european union but in particular for developing countries, which would benefit immensely from expanding their trade with each other where the bulk of that trade takes place, which is in industrial goods, not agriculture. so the case for a strong south-south dimension of the round remains convincing. i fully acknowledge the importance of granting developing countries the necessary flexibilities, and we need to explain and stress this all the time in europe’s approach. all our proposals include special and differential treatment which, in the case of the least-developed countries and the most vulnerable countries, basically means that they will not be requested to make any liberalising effort in this round. however, the european community is not going to sign up to an oecd round in which the g20 group of emerging economies simply sits back and enjoys the concessions made by the developed world without much, or indeed any, gain for the poorest and most needy developing countries. that is not sellable across europe; it should not be sellable across the world. finally, i should like to talk about your role and contribution in the months to come. clearly, the outcome of a negotiation must be sold and, en route to that conclusion, our policies and positions need to be explained as well. this is especially true in open, democratic societies like our own. i greatly appreciated your opinions and your help in hong kong. i thought we really were in a real sense working together as team europe, even if on specific issues there were nuances and certain policy differences between us. i would like your continued help in explaining not only to your own electorates but also to our wto partners that the european constituency remains ambitious for the dda, that we are deeply committed to its development values, but we will not be able to settle for an outcome that has nothing in it to enhance european growth or competitiveness or that can help us in creating more jobs to offset those that are lost in europe as agricultural production falls away. in trade negotiations you get what you pay for. europe will not be ready to pay for a round that offers nothing new on industrial market access, services, gis or other rules that lend strength to the multilateral way of managing our international affairs. if there are no advances or real improvements in those areas, then we are not going to pay and be the sole banker of this round. these are my preliminary thoughts. i have already started discussions with my main counterparts, and the forthcoming davos meeting will be the first opportunity to further compare notes with trade ministers. we will continue reassessing and fine-tuning our negotiating position in the light of the reactions and comments we get from other wto members, but mostly, of course, from the council and from you. i will again outline my approach in a trade policy speech next monday, 23 january, in berlin, after i have heard your views tonight.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, i am forgetting to mention the specific objectives of the european union and the outcome of the hong kong negotiations by subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are also looking forward to continuing our creative collaboration, commissioner. the overall outcome of the hong kong conference is considered to be moderate, but at the same time, taking into account the objective circumstances, positive. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment, which will be presented to the european parliament in the autumn. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the hong kong conference showed that the road to a successful conclusion and conclusion of the current round remains open. however, it is useful for everyone, on all sides, to realise that there is no viable alternative to the multilateral trading system. there is no alternative to ensure economic integration and development, the effective management of growing economic interdependence and the peaceful and just settlement of disputes. the successful conclusion of the doha round will strengthen and broaden international trade and international development. it will make the international trading system fairer, producing benefits for all, and improve institutions and procedures. it will also be a barrier to the spread of division and protectionism. the european union will certainly continue its efforts and develop dynamic initiatives for the successful conclusion of the round. this effort unites us. it is a common challenge.
mr president, with a single strategy, the european union and the united states of america, despite their differences, have used the sixth wto ministerial conference to intensify the exploitation of peoples and the plundering of the resources of developing countries. the results and the total lack of transparency in the wto negotiations are dangerous for the peoples. it is becoming clear that the wto is an imperialist organization serving the interests of the multinational groups of big capital. the agreement reached in hong kong is dealing a severe blow to the main pillars of the economy and, more generally, to the independence and sovereignty of countries. the agreement on agricultural products speeds up the process of eliminating small and mediumsized farmers and at the same time strengthens monopolies. the agreement on non-agricultural products is an insurmountable obstacle to the industrial development of the developing countries. and at the same time, opening up markets to natural resources will have devastating consequences for the environment. the so-called liberalisation of services - the bolkenstein directive - promoted by the wto opens a pandora's box, paving the way for the full commercialisation of goods such as water, health, education, transport and information in order to increase the profits of the monopolies. but where the situation is unacceptable, where cynicism is beyond all bounds, is in the production and distribution of medicines. it is a crime against humanity, as over 30,000 people are dying every day at the altar of the super profits of the international pharmaceutical industry because they cannot access the medicines to deal with the major epidemics. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, from the foregoing and from the events surrounding the demonstrations in strasbourg and elsewhere in europe, we have all come to realise that we are discussing a subject which is very serious in its dimensions and implications. we must therefore be careful in its many aspects, but at the same time be more effective in the objectives we want to serve, namely economic growth, competitiveness and convergence in the regions of europe. we therefore welcome the commission's initiative to propose a regulatory framework which, more than 50 years after the founding of the european community, is lacking in the european union. we are therefore faced with the choice of obtaining a regulatory framework which will give transparency to the operation of services and relations with the public and other authorities, but which will also give greater competitiveness to our ports, not only to the large ports of europe which are losing ground to asian ports, but also to other secondary ports which will have the opportunity, on equal terms in terms of competition, to develop in order to be able to cope with both the explosion of international trade and the advantages that will result from the european union's policy on short sea shipping, sea buses. we must be prepared to take advantage of these policies. but we would like to see an impact study beforehand before we arrive at a final result, which we do not have today and which is linked to the lack of transparency and the lack of a regulatory framework in europe. but we must try, both at european union level and at member state level, to have such a study and we would also like this proposal for a directive to be part of a wider framework of port policy, because competition is not just a regulatory framework, it is also about the services that give access and efficiency in general to the operation of ports and transport.
mr president, our debate is taking place in the wake of yesterday's mass strike mobilization of dock workers which took place in all ports in the member states with great success sending a very clear message to withdraw the relevant directive on access to port services. it also comes two years after it was rejected by the european parliament. the new version of the relevant port directive, despite the false claims about transparency, safeguards and so on, is even worse than the one voted against by the european parliament on 23 november 2003. and here, in our view, there is a great political issue. the european parliament has rejected the directive, the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on the internal market have rejected the new version, and the rapporteur's proposal has been voted down in the committee on transport. the commission is insisting that the directive be brought before the european parliament, once again demonstrating the discrepancy between the will of meps and that of workers in this nerve-wracking sector. the new version of the directive covers the sale of ports to private individuals and the whole range of port services: unloading, stowage, storage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the marine environment is not compromised. the adoption of the directive will increase the risks and we... (applause from the gue/ngl group) (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, i wonder who wants this directive. there is no one in the port who is served by and accepts this directive, only globalisation and the new order of things, which you are really watching and are really following, namely this levelling down. it goes against logic, it goes against the ilo treaty with directive 137, which clearly states that for work in ports, priority is given to those who are qualified. what are you doing? you're going to put a cartel in the ports? we in greece have three quarters of the islands in europe, which means that we have the most ports in europe. we know how they work. there 's a positive way to work . we could get results faster, but with people who know the arsonists. we're gonna have the unskilled do a better job? so why are you going against reason, democracy, the interests of the workers? the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left behind.
mr president, commissioner, the commission has reiterated the proposal for a directive on the liberalisation of port services, without however taking account of the fact that it was rejected by parliament in 2003. the commission has already proposed a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the self-service system, which is incompatible with the modern working conditions that must exist in european ports, is maintained in the areas of health, safety and quality of port services. where are the proposals for the correct spatial organization of ports? where are the proposals for the modernisation of all port operations? the old request to exclude from the scope of the directive shipping services, which are not commercial activities but are a service to society as a whole and aim at the safety of shipping, the protection of ports and the marine environment, was not heeded. moreover, the efforts made by the members of the committee to improve the european commission's proposal were not heeded despite the honest efforts of mr jarzembowski. the lack of policy will therefore lead to a long period of uncertainty and certainly not to an investment climate. the best proposal is to withdraw her.
mr president, the report by mr zīle on his own initiative gives a full picture of the european union's relations with the people's republic of china and russia in the field of air transport. the most important of these are the differences in the way flights are flown over the territory of the two countries. as the rapporteur rightly points out, on the one hand we have the process of developing, modernising and liberalising chinese civil aviation, which is well under way, but on the other hand, in the case of russia, the problems remain, particularly as regards the fact that, in breach of competition law, all efforts to manage and control air traffic are attributed to the attempt to reward russian airlines. in both cases the interventions of commissioner barrot are considered to be catalytic, but so far in the second case the outstanding issues remain. in the case of the people's republic of china, i welcome the progress made, in particular the adjustment to the rules of good cooperation with the european union, with the main features being the liberalisation of air routes by the chinese government to european companies, with the aim of better serving travellers and also of increasing trade by increasing flights. as a member of the parliamentary group on european union-people's republic of china relations, i welcome the commission's general stance and in particular commissioner barrot's action towards the conclusion of the flight agreements, noting that it would be reasonable for parliament to have access to the terms of the negotiating mandate that the commission is seeking from the council in relation to china. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that a comprehensive agreement with russia should not be concluded without a solution to the problem of siberian overflights, which would include the abolition of overflight charges. i hope that we can reach the most harmonious agreement possible, because both sides, russia and the european union, need each other in the general interest of our peoples.
in writing. the so-called european citizenship is an ideological construct, without any practical value, since citizenship is granted by the member states. the role that the report tries to assign to 'european' citizenship is purely ideological, creating the illusion of a nonexistent 'european citizen' in a single 'political and cultural terrain', so that the imperialist and reactionary eu appears as a one-way street. in essence, the report attempts to introduce through the back door aspects of the reactionary european constitution that the peoples of the eu have rejected (taxation of european citizens directly by the eu, strengthening of european parties, supranational ballots, etc.). the report is so euro-pure that it goes so far as to establish, in a world first, a right to acquire an unfounded 'european' citizenship for 'long-term residents' who are deprived of citizenship and rights in the countries in which they reside! we unreservedly support and fight with immigrants for the safeguarding and extension of full political and social rights (the right to vote and to stand for election, full employment, wage, insurance and pension rights, granting citizenship to long-term residents, etc.). the achievement of these rights has nothing to do with the delusional ideology of so-called european citizenship, but is a field of struggle for the mass popular movement in each member state and at european level.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr fruteau, on behalf of the socialist group, for the maturity and efficiency with which he has presented his proposals and for his cooperation with the political groups and all the parliamentary committees. but i regret to say that the commission and the council decided to review one of the most important markets without even waiting for the decisions of the committee on agriculture and rural development. do you think, commissioner, that the way you have handled this matter is conducive to effective interinstitutional cooperation? of course not. today, at least, you have an example of good cooperation with the european parliament. what are the proposals of the european parliament that you intend to accept? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the sugar reform is a crime for the rural areas, for european industry, but also with questionable effects for the developing countries and the least developed countries. in many regions, including my own country, greece, there has already been a movement amongst sugar beet growers and workers in the sugar industry - and the greek sugar industry - because of the significant impact of a 36% cut. you mentioned, commissioner, that you were trying to make the european sugar industry in the european union sustainable. you're exaggerating or you're misrepresenting. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the sugar industry is not affected by the crisis, and that the sugar industry is not affected by the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will make a number of proposals in the future. firstly, greater compensation for the loss of income, especially for small producers who will be hit the hardest by the reduction in aid. secondly, the effective activation of the reconstruction fund, as the basis for a genuine consultation of all producers and workers, in preparation of integrated operational and restructuring programmes aimed at preventing the abandonment of the areas. thirdly, the aid of eur 80 per hectare of land under energy crops and the increase in the total area allowed from 1.8 to 2.8 million hectares. it is important because there is a move towards an environmentally friendly form of energy. fourthly, the possibility of national aid to producers for a transitional period, and the allocation of a percentage of approximately 30 to 50% of the amount to be given for industrial restructuring to the producers themselves, provided of course that they continue to grow other crops. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. otherwise, it will be a no-return check, which, following the commission's wrong interinstitutional behaviour, will reinforce the community institutions' unreliability vis-à-vis the european citizens.
i am sorry, but today's debate on the sugar opinion is a travesty, because the council has decided and the governments are planning to implement the harsh anti-agricultural decision whereby thousands of small and mediumsized farmers will be uprooted, sugar factories will be closed and workers will follow the armies of the unemployed. already in greece farmers and workers are mobilizing. the decisions of the new regulation drastically reduce quotas and institutional prices, and abolish intervention. it is in the spirit of the new cap and is a tool to reduce agricultural resources and channel them into the european union's repressive policies in the name of terrorism. at the same time, the decisions in the wto show that agriculture and, of course, sugar have been thrown into the ring to promote the interests and profitability of european industrial capital through its greater unhindered penetration into developing countries for greater exploitation. the rapporteur is trying to put the effects of his proposals a little later. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the sugar sector is not left behind.
vice-president of the commission. the commission supports cooperation between interpol and european member states as well as eu bodies such as europol. at the same time, as pointed out in the 2004 commission proposal for a council common position on the transfer of certain data to interpol, applicable data protection rules must be respected. this was confirmed by the council common position of 24 january 2005 on exchanging certain data with interpol. it notably concerns lost or stolen passports. it underlined that the conditions of the exchange shall be agreed with interpol in order to ensure – and i would like to stress the following – that the data exchanged will respect the data protection principles that lie at the heart of data exchange within the union, particularly with regard to the exchange and automatic processing of such data. i should add that the control of personal data by interpol shall be ensured by the rules on the control of information and access to interpol’s files. in particular these rules establish a commission for the control of interpol’s files and govern the composition, role and functions of that commission. the current chairman of the commission is mr hustinx, who is currently also the eu data protection supervisor.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the honourable member for his supplementary question. i can say that the council has set out a very clear direction and that the commission will ensure that these rules are respected, and that they apply to all bases on which interpol will work. i refer in particular to some key principles relating to data protection: who is entitled to access the data; for what specific and predetermined purposes; how long can the data be kept and, more importantly, who will be entitled to use it and in what areas? as you know, we have recently put forward a proposal for a framework decision on data protection in the context of the so-called third pillar. this is the first proposal of its kind and further extends the scope of data protection in police cooperation.
member of the commission. mr president, the management of water resources in the mediterranean region is a challenge for all of us, both in terms of water quality and availability. the problem of water scarcity in the mediterranean is exacerbated by increased demand for water in certain sectors and regions and by the effects of climate change. on climate change, i would point out that it is scientifically difficult to argue that individual droughts are directly linked to climate change; however, we know that climate change is contributing to more extreme events that are occurring more frequently and over larger geographical areas. we have asked for, and have been given, a report by the european union joint research centre on the relationship between climate change and water, water scarcity and droughts. in general, the protection of our water resources is one of the priorities of the european union's environmental policy. the european union has indeed radically restructured its water policy with the relevant framework directive. it was a political message that went far beyond its own territory. one of the basic principles of the european union's water policy is cooperation between regions of different member states sharing common water resources. to this end, the so-called european union water initiative was adopted, under which the european union and its member states have committed themselves to achieving the millennium water goals. the commission then launched a joint procedure between the framework directive and the european union's water initiative, in which greece took the lead on the mediterranean part of the initiative. the aim of this cooperation is to facilitate the implementation of policies for the sound management of water resources in the mediterranean countries, in compliance with the principles of the community's water framework directive. the european union and the mediterranean countries have therefore set up working groups, one of which will deal specifically with water scarcity. by the end of this year, guidelines will have been drawn up for the european union and the other mediterranean countries, and measures will be proposed to prevent and manage water scarcity and drought. water is one of the priorities of the short-term environmental planning action programme, known as smpar, which is implemented at regional level. monitoring of smap actions is part of the programme and reports are available for most of these actions. a detailed evaluation of the programme will be carried out this year and the results will be available to you. the experience of the implementation of the smap so far has been positive and has helped to promote and exchange experience and good practice, particularly in the water sector. in the smarp 2 programme, between 2000 and 2005, two of the eight projects - with a community contribution of eur 6.2 million - directly concerned water management. the next generation of the smp programme, smp 3, will focus on the preparation of integrated coastal zone management plans and provide technical assistance to member state governments. several projects are already in the process of being signed and are expected to last for three years from january 2006.
i would like to thank you, commissioner, for the information you have given me in your reply on the european union's policy in the context of the 25 countries, its cooperation with third countries in achieving the millennium development goals and, in particular, in the context of the mediterranean basin. i would like to ask you if you have more detailed and specific information at this moment on the guidelines that the european commission will give for public and private investment in the context of barcelona ii, because the water sector is a sector of great importance for the quality of life and the balanced development that we want to achieve in the mediterranean basin.
member of the commission. as you know, the laval case is now pending before the european court of justice, as i have already mentioned, and our services are currently preparing the commission's observations. in principle, the commission's observations should not call into question the social model of a member state as such, but should defend the view that the economic freedoms enshrined in the treaty can be combined with different social models. as has already been stated, there need not be a conflict between the objective of promoting fair competition on the one hand and ensuring the protection of workers on the other. the application of the social model must clearly be fully consistent with and respect the objectives and fundamental principles of community law, in particular the principle of legitimate objective, objective justification and the principle of proportionality. ladies and gentlemen, the commission is preparing an opinion to be part of the proceedings before the european court of justice, and as i have already said, it is not possible at this stage to go into detail and it is not right to do so.
member of the commission. thank you for the question, in response to which i can state that the commission has absolutely no plans to harmonise direct company taxation. as is outlined in the commission communication of 25 october 2005 on the contribution of taxation and customs policies to the lisbon strategy, the commission intends to carry out the necessary preparatory work towards a common consolidated tax base over the next three years, with a view to presenting a community legislative measure by 2008. the commission does not intend to propose a harmonised corporate tax rate, which is just part of the overall area we would like to harmonise. as regards vulnerable areas of less populous member states, it should be borne in mind that, under community state aid rules, member states have to respect strict conditions when providing for preferential tax regimes in favour of companies undertaking investments in assisted areas, under national regional state aid guidelines for promoting the economic development of certain disadvantaged areas of the european union. state aid rules remain applicable to any state measures which may be enacted in the context of a common consolidated tax base initiative. the preparatory work by the commission has not yet reached the stage of examining the impact of a common consolidated tax base on different regions within member states. any legislative proposal submitted by the commission after this work has been carried out will, in any case, be accompanied by an appropriate impact assessment. on the other hand, i should point out that the common consolidated tax base has been identified as an important tool for helping the community achieve the lisbon goals. it will help to reduce compliance costs and to encourage cross-border activities, which will lead to a higher rate of economic growth and employment and a higher level of competitiveness across the whole of the european union.
i am very satisfied with your answer, commissioner. i would ask you to comment on the question of small and mediumsized enterprises, that is, whether they will be taken into account in the commission's concern as a special group in the european enterprise as a whole.
member of the commission. my answer is a definite ‘yes’. the commission considers the smes to be a special group which is to be supported as it provides a large number of jobs. according to my judgement, the common consolidated corporate tax base will give a special advantage to the smes, which are in a less favourable position than the multinationals. so, if there is one group which will profit from the common consolidated tax base, it will be the smes.
member of the commission. on 13 december 2005 the commission welcomed the ruling of the court of justice in the marks & spencer case on cross-border loss relief. the court has interpreted the principle of freedom of establishment for cross-border loss relief in a way that is in compliance with the logic and philosophy of the single market and in a way that is supported by the commission. the commission has to continue its efforts to eliminate all obstacles preventing companies from reaping the full benefits of the internal market. the commission therefore intends to come forward with a communication in the near future in which it will outline its views on cross-border loss relief. this communication will go beyond the specific case of marks & spencer and focus on the economic aspects. the commission knows that this is a difficult subject as member states are rightly concerned about the need to protect their tax revenues, but at the same time it is clear that it cannot accept that obstacles to the internal market continue to hamper companies from making investments and creating growth and employment in line with the objectives which it has set itself as part of the lisbon strategy.
the commissioner has not answered my question. the marx & spencer case highlights a double tax dumping. we have different rates and different treatment between member states for taxing multinational companies that have both parent companies and subsidiaries within the european union. the european court of justice's ruling rather highlights the problem than addresses it. i ask you again, what does the commission intend to do to limit the tax evasion of large multinational corporations and the leakage of public revenue to the member states? does he intend to take up any legislative initiative? why else are you talking about economic and monetary union ?
member of the commission. as usual, mrs cederschiöld makes a very compelling argument for her case. however, as i said in reply to mrs roithová, there are differing views on this issue. i await the outcome, in the first instance, of the vote in the european parliament next month and the various amendments that have been proposed in this and other areas. certainly mrs cederschiöld makes some very compelling points, but there are other views also.
member of the commission. the honourable member’s question can be split into two parts. the first issue is whether the commission intends to clarify further the criteria governing the use of article 296 of the treaty. the second, more specific issue is the commission assessment on the rules to be applied to research, study and experiment contracts in the field of defence. on the first issue, we recently outlined our proposals for future initiatives to improve cross-border competition in defence procurement. our communication of 6 december announced the adoption in 2006 of an interpretative communication on article 296 in the field of defence procurement and the start of preparatory work on a possible defence procurement directive. those initiatives are based on the results of the consultation launched with the green paper of 2004. the contribution of parliament to this debate, voted on 17 november, explicitly supports the commission in its initiative. the interpretative communication will give guidance on how to use article 296 of the treaty, which allows member states a derogation from internal market rules and from directive 2004/18 when their essential security interests are at stake. this provision has to be applied on a case-by-case basis and cannot be interpreted widely. it is for the member state that seeks to rely on this provision to provide evidence that the derogation is justified and proportionate to the objective pursued. a possible directive would coordinate procedures for defence procurement in cases where the derogation under article 296 is not applicable or where a member state chooses not to take advantage of it. it would provide new, more flexible procurement rules, better suited to the specific nature of the defence sector. the adoption by the commission of a possible proposal for such a directive is subject to the results of the impact assessment which will be carried out in 2006. the commission is not in a position to give an assessment of the facts described by the honourable member in the second part of the question. article 296 of the treaty has to be applied on a case-by-case basis and according to the specific circumstances of each case. however, the principles that should be taken into account when establishing the rules to apply can be briefly outlined. on the one hand, it is worth noting that public procurement in the field of research, study and experiment benefits, under certain conditions, from specific derogations within the existing directive and within the government procurement agreement of the world trade organization. defence contracts of this kind can also benefit from derogations within the code of conduct set up by the european defence agency for the article 296 area. on the other hand, the question of government ownership of the share capital of potential contractors, and the consequences in terms of the rules to be applied, is not an issue to be addressed on the basis of article 296: this is linked to the ‘in-house’ derogation, as established by the court of justice. however, according to this case law, the derogation only applies in cases of 100% ownership.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that the concern about the transparency of public procurement and public defence is a matter of concern to the european economy in general, but i will take account of the commissioner's clarification that he will clarify the derogations in article 296 of the treaty on the basis of the relevant judgment of the european court of justice, in particular the stage of the procurement procedure in the armaments sector. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, and that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy.
mr president, commissioner, the new sugar regime as it is being written will be particularly unfavourable to farmers. in many areas this means the cessation of sugar beet cultivation. the closure of the sugar mills will lead to unemployment of farmers and industrial workers. the first mobilizations have already begun in my country, unfortunately. we must aim to ensure that our farmers survive in their own homes. we don't need any more police brutality. if we want to replace sugar beets with energy crops, let's be more generous with subsidies. we also owe it to the environment. because power plants mean we're protecting the environment. but the acp states, too, will not have a better future under the new regime. commissioner, you are a serious, honest and capable man. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them, but i am afraid that the commission will not be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for god's sake, i don't think you want any of this.
mr president, there is a particular need for the full and complete application of the treaty in all member states. the importance of this is crucial for the future course of environmental policy. particular emphasis should be placed on the need for a comprehensive provision of electronically digitized information, which will lay the foundations for a proper implementation of citizen participation in all environmental control and awareness-raising processes. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. finally, it is of great importance that the public sector responds immediately and vigorously to all aspects of the report and the proposed actions, because in several countries the public sector is also the provider of the largest volume of environmental information. the korhola report, which treats the complexities of such an undertaking with care and caution, must, as far as the ngos are concerned, be open to these issues and not just rigid or unfair towards them. in conclusion, i believe that important work has been done and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her efforts.
mr. chancellor, the recipe for your success is very simple: take a big picture of blair, put it across from your desk and write "i don't want to look like him" under it! you're sure to succeed. the other recipe is to not be condescending. what you believe to insist on. the retreat of 3 october 2005 is etched in our memory. another issue is to limit american control of the region as well as the work of the cia. be careful not to be drawn into new adventures in the middle east and certainly not to try to bring the constitution to its knees. the dead is past. it cannot be the vision for the peoples of europe. on the other hand, look at changing the maastricht indicators because the developing countries of europe cannot keep up with them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and another thing, when in 1945 you applied to join the un as the german republic of austria, you were told no "german". now we too say no to macedonia in fyrom!
in writing. the european council reached agreement on the financial perspective 2007-13, after a hard bargain over who would give less and who would take more of the people's money, to benefit euromolecular capital and boost its profitability and privileges. at the same time, it laid the foundations for a new revision of the cap and a reduction in agricultural expenditure, which will lead to a new displacement of small and medium-sized farmers. the money of the peoples through the budgetary package is increasingly being used by 110% to reinforce the repressive policies and strategy of the anti-people agenda of lisbon, while the resources for the peasants are gradually being reduced. the committee on budgets has also adopted a resolution on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2007-13. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. in the face of the revelations and the scandal they have caused about the cia's activities, with its kidnappings of civilians, the transfer of suspects, the conduct of interrogations and the existence of prisons in european countries, the european parliament is trying, by setting up a committee of inquiry, to throw ashes in the eyes of the peoples of europe. it shows a hypocritical sensitivity to the violation of human rights on european soil and tries to save the eu's 'lost honour'. but the fact is that the eu itself and the governments of the member countries have made secret agreements with the usa, have fully joined the so-called anti-terrorist campaign and are now trying to present themselves as surprised and innocent doves. it is a challenge and a slight to the people that the political groups in the european parliament, whose parties are in power and have signed the agreements, should appear to protest against the result. the eu and the us share responsibility for the inexcusable actions of the secret services which, among other things, are preparing the use of the terrorism to strike at the popular movement and to start wars against countries and peoples.
in writing. i voted against the report on the liberalisation of port services because, instead of promoting transparency in investment and state aid, it focuses on enhancing competition between european ports. through a system of tender notices, private companies will be able to use their own crews in ports while permanent dockers will lose their jobs. the proposal for "self-service" is totally unacceptable!!! there is already a lot of competition in our ports, which are, notably, some of the cheapest in the world. further price falls and increased competition will have negative consequences both for safety and environmental protection.
mr president, eight months after the rejection of the text of the constitutional treaty in the french and dutch referendums, we are still in an endless period of reflection on how we will shape its content. let's get down to business. what is this job ? in my opinion, not to be consumed by endless debates on the detailed definition of the new welfare state, eu funding, etc. if we think we can find common ground between us in all this, as a condition for re-promoting the constitution, i believe we will never have a euro-constitution. on the contrary, one should be, in my opinion, the ultimate goal of meditation. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it is not only the european parliament that has been involved in the debate, but also the european parliament itself. this is perhaps the most important missing context for any text to be accepted by everyone!
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the question by mrs stenzel on the coordination of the eu institutions, the council of europe, the osce and the respect for human rights in the fight against terrorism is answered as follows: it is in the field of justice and home affairs that we have excellent relations with the council of europe, and i may add that i had the opportunity just today to speak before the committee of ministers of the council of europe on the priorities of the austrian presidency, and i made a special reference to the common interests and cooperation between the council of europe and the european union in the field of human rights. i would like to mention here that we consider the meetings held by each presidency with the troika of the council of europe since 1997 to be very important. the agenda of the last meeting of the council of europe on 7 december 2005 included in particular the council of europe guidelines on human rights and the fight against terrorism. in the field of external relations, the council working party on terrorism - international aspects also maintains regular contacts with the council of europe. the working party on human rights is also closely following the international efforts made in other forums such as the oecd, the council of europe and the united nations in the field of the protection of human rights in the fight against terrorism. we want to ensure that the eu can play an active role in all these efforts. the austrian presidency is pleased to confirm that it intends to continue this form of cooperation with the council of europe. the 2004 warsaw summit of the council of europe decided to draw up an agreement with the european union regulating all areas of cooperation between the organisations with the aim of structuring, improving and intensifying this cooperation. a draft was drawn up under the british presidency, which has already been sent to the council of europe and is now being examined by it in accordance with the council of europe's rules of procedure. the austrian presidency, in close cooperation with the commission, will be engaged in an intensive dialogue with the council of europe presidency, which, as you know, will be held by romania this semester, so that this important document can be completed in the coming months. i have also pledged myself today before the delegates of the ministers that i will do everything in my power to ensure that this memorandum is completed, if possible, under the romanian presidency, that is to say, by the end of may this year. as regards the osce, the two organisations maintain excellent contacts both on the ground and at the institutional level, which should also be deepened in the future. i would like to point out that three eu member states, namely belgium, spain and finland, will hold the osce chairmanship in succession in the coming years. the osce has now become a member of the european union, with almost 50% of the participating states also being members of the european union, and their common positions and actions are usually followed by ten other states. in the crucial debates within the osce on enhancing its effectiveness, in particular on the work of the office for democratic institutions and human rights (odihr), which is committed to the protection of human rights, the european union has already systematically and successfully advocated in the past for the full autonomy of the organisation, so that it can continue to fulfil its important role in promoting democracy and human rights without discrimination and without restrictions in all osce participating states. the austrian presidency will continue to pursue this policy, which is of course supported by all the member states.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the austrian presidency supports - as chancellor schüssel has made very clear in his remarks today - the efforts of the parliamentary assembly and the secretary-general of the council of europe to bring complete clarity to this matter and to put the facts clearly on the table. any doubts about the commitment of all council of europe member states to the rule of law and human rights as defined in the european convention on human rights must be removed. we shall also support the european parliament's investigative measures in this respect.
president-in-office of the council. we will certainly make this the subject of consultations among all members in the council.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, we consider the establishment of the european agency for human rights to be an essential contribution to strengthening the contours of all the institutions of the european union. we are trying to make this human rights agency, in dialogue with the european parliament, but also with the council of europe and other institutions, an effective instrument which can indeed contribute to tackling the issues you have raised, namely the question of respect for human rights in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. this agency, which we hope will be set up during the austrian presidency and which we hope will be operational by 1 january 2007, should not be seen as a competitor to other existing institutions. we do not want to compete with the valuable and important institutions of the council of europe, the court of justice or the committee against discrimination and other institutions. we want an efficient agency, based on the nucleus of the observatory on racism in vienna, but with greater powers, which will also strengthen the credibility of the european union in the field of human rights.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the question of the abduction and detention of pakistanis living in greece, asked by mr manolakou, is as follows: the council has always stressed that the fight against terrorism must be conducted in full compliance with the general principles of international law and with the human rights provisions enshrined in national and international legal instruments. the council reaffirms its categorical condemnation of torture and other illegal practices and stresses the need to adhere to general principles of law at all times. the council does not wish to comment on the details raised by the honourable member, and cannot do so. the cases of as referred to in the request abductions are currently being investigated by several international bodies and in particular by the council of europe. until the results of these studies are available, it would be premature to take a position.
i'm the deputy editor. madam president, the minister has just said two contradictory things to us: on the one hand, a general declaration condemning the violation of human rights and, on the other, refusing to take a position on specific events that have caused a commotion in greece and which concern the activities of the british secret services. this is not a cia operation, but an operation by a member state of the european union. and that is why we consider the declaration on the protection of human rights to be hypocritical. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, if the european parliament wishes to investigate these allegations, it is of course up to the european parliament to take a decision. for us - and i have mentioned this - a number of international institutions are still investigating these allegations, and i think we have to wait for the results of these investigations.
mr president, the facts you want to know have been reported by the bbc. the british parliament has set up a committee and is investigating the matter. the greek parliament also spent hours discussing the matter. as president, do you intend to contact the authorities of the two member states to tell the council what has happened?
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, mr posselt, we have met before in other fields. i shall of course be glad to take your opinion and suggestion into account. i am also of the opinion - i have said this before today - that human rights and minority rights are indivisible.
mr president, you spoke for six minutes, but you spoke to us in very general terms, in very round terms. i would ask you, therefore, whether the council continues to make un resolution 1244 the focal point of your policy. what about not only the right of return but also the possibility of return for serbs and roma who were forced to leave kosovo? and because you said that kosovo's location is in europe, do you intend to bring to the attention of the authorities the allegations of the existence of a guantanamo-style prison at the us base in kosovo?
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, i refer to article 6 of the treaty on european union, which you are of course familiar with, in reply to mr pafilis's question. i would like to quote him in part: the european union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law. these principles are common to all member states. these rights include the right to freedom of expression and the council of the european union does not have the right to interfere in the decision-making process of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. the question also concerns the activities of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, on which i cannot comment.
madam president, i could never have imagined that the council would avoid answering directly on the question of the anti-communist memorandum. it is known in all european countries, it has been condemned by thousands of people from all political circles, it is a fascist text which equates nazism with communism, it is disrespectful to the millions of communist victims who sacrificed themselves to defeat fascism, it criminalizes the political action and ideology of the communists and it is precisely - as you mentioned in article 6 - that it violates basic democratic rights. we demand that the council take a position on this memorandum!
the agenda includes the report by charles tannock, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the european neighbourhood policy (2004/2166 (ini)) (a6-0399/2005)
mr president, i too would like to thank commissioner ferrero-waldner and to point out the very positive contribution made by mr tannock to the final text. i would like to mention a number of issues on which the implementation of the ambitious objectives of the european neighbourhood policy will depend. firstly, there can be no credible european neighbourhood policy without a balanced geographical approach. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a key condition for the effectiveness of the neighbourhood policy is the political will of the member states to make use of the mechanisms provided for the protection of human rights and democratic freedoms. the negative experience in this area of the barcelona process should make us all wiser. the neighbourhood policy should be linked to the implementation of the european security strategy, notably in the areas of the fight against international terrorism, organised crime, energy security and environmental challenges. the european neighbourhood policy must not create overlaps or confusion with regard to the european perspective and the future integration of the balkan countries into the european union. the links with the euro-mediterranean cooperation process also need to be defined more clearly. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new financial instrument to include the following areas: the development of the european union's financial instruments, the fight against fraud, the fight against corruption, the fight against money laundering, the fight against money laundering, the fight against corruption, the fight against money laundering, the fight against corruption, the fight against money laundering, the fight against corruption, the fight against crime and the fight against crime. the european neighbourhood policy needs to develop into a process involving the citizens and societies of third countries. the development and deepening of regional cooperation and integration and the strengthening of the regional customs union are also needed. the critical international energy situation requires the european union to harmonize and integrate its energy markets with those of the countries of the neighbourhood policy. in conclusion, i would like to stress the need to speed up the negotiations on the adoption of the action programmes with the countries of the south caucasus, and in particular the negotiations with georgia. particular attention should be paid to the human rights situation and the situation of the greek community in the region of salka, georgia, where there are serious problems both in human rights and in property rights of the greek community.
mr president, i too would like to thank the commissioner and the rapporteur, mr tannock, for their comprehensive contributions. there is no doubt that the european neighbourhood policy is a successful policy. but i think it is time to consider whether it needs to have an institutional basis. my proposal is very specific and is as follows: all these countries which are currently participating in the european neighbourhood policy should form a commonwealth, an upgraded version of the british commonwealth. the european union would thus create around itself a large zone of peace, freedom and prosperity. in this system, in this commonwealth, the customs union will apply to all countries, while there will be no freedom of movement of citizens to the countries of the union, no participation in the community's decision-making bodies, and no common currency. this special relationship will offer economic and other advantages in areas such as infrastructure, energy, the environment and transport that will provide an incentive for integration into the commonwealth. the establishment of the commonwealth can be a valuable back-up solution in the event that a country's full membership of the european union is seriously hampered. it could also be a way of bringing the countries of the european periphery closer to europe. it would create a zone of european-oriented countries and would definitively resolve the dilemma between continuing enlargement and deepening the european union. the european union must be able to take action to combat the spread of racism and xenophobia, and to prevent the spread of racism and xenophobia. it will unite us and strengthen us at the same time without significant cost and with far less risk.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i should like to greet my colleague mr verheugen, who is behind the neighbourhood policy. it is a happy coincidence that he is here today. secondly, i should like to repeat that i am very appreciative of the very broad support for the report by mr tannock and for the neighbourhood policy. it is indeed a very broad policy and it was therefore a broad discussion. this is a policy directed towards the eu’s neighbours in the east, but also towards its neighbours in the mediterranean. i will come to that in a moment. on the european perspective, it is clear that the neighbourhood policy is one that is distinct from enlargement, but at the same time i should also say that the future is not set in stone. at this stage we have a policy totally distinct from enlargement. i could not be clearer in distinguishing and defining that policy. there is also a regional perspective. this is very clear, for instance, in the mediterranean process, euromed. it is regional and the neighbourhood policy is the bilateral, complementary part of it, so the two work together. for instance, we have always very strongly supported the south-south agadir cooperation between the countries. naturally, with regard to the east, that aspect can still be broadened. there is still a lot to be done. however, i can also tell you that during the energy crisis the regional dimension was also apparent. we have also very much enhanced, helped and encouraged ukraine to help moldova in the very times it has experienced recently. in the energy field as a whole we are trying to work towards an integrated energy market. in the mashreq there is an integrated gas market. there is also the cooperation between palestine and israel, which is at least aimed at more effective integration. let me answer a few specific questions. many have been asked here. first, the inclusion of the southern caucasus countries in the neighbourhood policy – something originally demanded by the european parliament – is very welcome. the report suggests fully utilising the enp to promote inter-state confidence building. that is very important. it is crucial for the southern caucasus countries to create stability. i agree with everyone who has said that we have to promote and reinforce the currently-frozen conflict solution in those countries. that is what we are trying to do. the development of the enp, as regards the southern caucasus, remains a high priority. you all know that technical missions have been going to those countries in order to negotiate the action plans, notably because we also want to contribute to regional stability and reinforce eu support for resolving the conflicts there. we know that this will take time, but it is highly important that we are fully engaged in it. another question referred to belarus. to date the commission has been represented through its delegation in kiev, which is accredited to belarus. i have requested, as a first stage, that a regionalised delegation mission be established in belarus, headed by a chargé d’affaires under the head of mission of kiev. i am still awaiting a positive reply from the belarusian authorities. however, my understanding is that if we have a delegation there then we can work much more closely with the government in minsk and try to reinforce our own criteria. many of you will know that our assistance to belarus is characterised by a two-track approach. there is also a strategy for more democratisation and human rights to meet the needs of the population at large, and a decentralised programme. that means new funding for support to democratisation, which is available under the eidhr and direct work, for instance as regards the radio station and the possibility of directly influencing information through our independent broadcasting to belarus. that is already under way. but we are also working for higher education and for training, if you bear in mind the closure of the university in minsk and our work in vilnius. the whole question of the transnistrian conflict has been mentioned. in line with the commitment in the action plan, we have taken a much higher profile in supporting the mediation process. since october 2005 we have tried to work, together with the us, as observers. we now have a special representative for moldova, ambassador jacobovits de szeged, who is working for a solution to the transnistrian conflict. in this connection we set up the moldovan-eu border assistance mission on 1 december. it is designed to assist moldova and ukraine in ensuring transparent management of their common border, thus stepping up cooperation on border issues and trying to combat corruption and the misleading of customs. i disagree with those who say that the barcelona summit was a failure. i really regret the media reports about barcelona. i was there from the very beginning until the very end. i can tell you that barcelona was excellent in its substance. there is a report on migration. please read it. there is a common position on combating terrorism. there is the substance that the commission, in our communication, brought forward in april. one should look at why various heads of state did not attend. for instance, it may have been somewhat difficult for the king of morocco to go to spain because of the differences they still have. king abdullah ii of jordan had to change his government. president abdelaziz bouteflika of algeria was in a hospital in paris and still is, as far as i know. president mubarak had just had elections in egypt and was not in the best of conditions to go to barcelona. however, many prime ministers attended and it is they who have to implement policy. twinning and taiex, the two excellent instruments that have helped the enlargement countries a great deal, are also there for the neighbourhood countries, and we will use them. there were many other questions, but i cannot go into more detail now owing to time constraints. however, if those questions are raised again in the committee on foreign affairs then i would be pleased to answer them.
member of the commission. mr president, i am very happy to answer that. i just thought that the debate was going on for too long. russia is not in the normal enp. we have a special financial instrument – enpi – the european neighbourhood partnership instrument. why? because russia is a huge country and feels it deserves a special strategic partnership. we have worked with russia on the four common spaces, and for every summit we go through the agenda and the different questions, such as the one you mentioned on the border agreement with estonia and latvia. other questions, such as on gas and energy, will certainly be important points. those are bilateral issues of the countries with russia. we have tried to facilitate those negotiations, but we have heard that for the time being those parties prefer to work on the issue themselves. i see at least some sort of progress, but i am cautious because it will take time. i did not forget to answer your question, but the debate was very long and there were so many interventions, all of them very valuable.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 january 2006 at 12 noon. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the report by mrs dominique vlasto, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the implementation of the european charter for small enterprises (2005/2123 (ini)) (a6-0405/2005).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank the rapporteurs very warmly for their balanced reports and valuable suggestions. i would like to take this opportunity to say a very basic word on the commission's policy towards small and mediumsized enterprises. the rapporteur has just spoken of the 'orphan' nature of small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. i myself use the term "shadow existence", and both terms carry a massive criticism. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. i was determined to change that, and i am happy to say that the past year has been a political breakthrough for the policy of small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. not only has the priority of smes for growth and employment been recognised at all levels, but now, at last, serious work is being done everywhere to take the necessary steps to enable smes to realise the enormous potential for growth and employment that they have. if we want to achieve our goals in europe - stable, sustainable growth and full employment - then we can only do this with the help of small and mediumsized enterprises. we will not achieve these goals with the big players, who will tend to continue to cut jobs in the future. that is why i do not entirely agree with the rapporteur on one point. unlike you, i firmly believe that it is the integration of the charter policy into the new growth and employment strategy that has led to the fact that sme policy is now a top priority in europe. i cannot understand how it can be said that the large companies should have a place in this strategy for growth and employment, but not the small ones. small and mediumsized enterprises employ two thirds of all employees in europe. it's not the big guys, it's the little guys who are the bosses! smes are at the heart of this strategy, which can only succeed if smes are indeed at the centre. i really believe that the significant improvement in the policy environment for smes that we have achieved over the past year is precisely because we have given this policy its proper and proper place in the growth and employment policy of the european union. in the meantime, member states have also reported on their national reform plans in implementing the new growth and employment policy. i am pleased to tell you that more than half of all member states have identified sme policy as a national priority in these national reform plans. i think there's room for improvement. we shall report to parliament in a few weeks. for example, there is still a lack of details - at times at least - about the measures taken, and this could lead to an overly optimistic assessment, but we are dealing here with the beginning of a process which will become even more effective and which i believe can be successful. the charter itself will be preserved in any case. it will continue to serve as a reference point for the exchange of best practice and mutual learning. the main instrument, the annual charter conferences, will continue. best practice in a selected number of sme policy areas will be presented at the annual charter conference in vienna on 13 and 14 june 2006. since parliament began work on its report, some things have changed. on 10 november last year, the commission adopted a communication on a modern sme policy for growth and employment. we would not have had to do this if i had been convinced that the policy in place was sufficient. the commission's communication on a modern sme policy for growth and employment is now the coherent framework for the various instruments of enterprise policy and goes far beyond the 10 lines of action of the charter. the communication emphasises the importance of smes in the context of lisbon and enshrines the principle of 'think small first' in all eu policies. it also identifies the challenges smes face on a daily basis and suggests measures to strengthen their capacity to grow and create jobs. the communication supports the european partnership for growth and employment, which recognises the importance of promoting an entrepreneurial culture in europe and creating a favourable policy environment for small and medium-sized enterprises. there are specific policy areas on which i would like to say a few words. the commission has adopted a communication on home state taxation which it hopes will be adopted. this would help small and mediumsized enterprises in international transport. the commission attaches the utmost importance to improving access to financial instruments for smes. this is a central problem. i will do everything to ensure that the funds allocated to this purpose will be sufficient to continue this successful project in the next financial period. the commission is preparing an initiative to promote entrepreneurship education in europe. we simply do not have enough entrepreneurship in europe! we simply don't have enough people who are ready to become entrepreneurs. this is not just a question of economic conditions. this is also a matter of cultural, social and political environment. we must start in schools and universities, and we must start by encouraging entrepreneurship and teaching entrepreneurial skills. finally, i would like to point out that we are also currently making proposals on how to facilitate the transition of small and mediumsized enterprises from one owner to another. we will have many millions of transfers of ownership in the years ahead, which, if not managed properly, could lead to millions of jobs being put at risk. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not primarily the responsibility of the european institutions. our resources and opportunities are limited. this is essentially a matter for the member states. i therefore call on the member states to recognize even more clearly than before the opportunities and potential that lie precisely in the promotion of small and mediumsized enterprises. (applause from the centre)
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles. mr president, i should first like to thank mrs vlasto for her comprehensive report and the commissioner for the clear presentation of the commission's position on the subject of small and mediumsized enterprises. but i would also like to welcome the initiative of the austrian presidency to draw up the european charter for smes immediately, so as to promote specific initiatives and measures to strengthen competitiveness and employment in the european union. the economic and social committee in its opinion points to a number of economic and tax incentives which could help smes to enter the economic arena of competitiveness, research and technology and worker mobility. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i would like to mention here the question of the relocation of large companies, which has a significant impact on the turnover and employment of small and mediumsized enterprises, many of which are subcontracted. i would agree with the austrian presidency that small and mediumsized enterprises need to be encouraged to invest in regional development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. to deal with this reality, it is noted that significant horizontal measures, at national and community level, must be taken, including: firstly, simplification of bureaucracy; secondly, the promotion of a simplified general system of financial support for smes, including new banking products; thirdly, the simplification of the tax obligations of smes, taking into account that the pilot project on the taxation of smes in the country of establishment can contribute to this, with the ultimate aim of adopting a common consolidated tax base; the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide a financial contribution to the research programme for the period 1994-99, and that the commission should be able to provide a financial contribution to the research programme for the period 1995-96. the words must now be acted upon. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 january 2006 at 12 noon. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
mr president, commissioner, the election of a democratic palestinian parliament and the establishment of democratic institutions are necessary conditions for the establishment of a viable and sovereign palestinian state that will live in peace and security alongside a secure, peaceful and democratic israel. the progressive moderate forces in palestine must block the way to all those forces which fuel the blind violence and conflict. they should say no to those forces which deny the existence of the state of israel. it is these extremist palestinian forces that are actually undermining the very prospect of a palestinian state. all political organizations have their place in the political system in palestine. but they have their place without weapons, without paramilitary logic, without terrorist acts. the european union and you, commissioner, must intervene immediately - and i am asking for it today - to secure the release of the palestinian parliamentary candidate in jerusalem, mrs fatou kanter, who has been arrested and is in prison. she needs and we call for her immediate release. two main issues i would like to raise are related to peace in palestine and the middle east: the first, as you have said, commissioner, concerns the dramatic economic and social situation of the palestinian people in gaza and the occupied west bank. and really, your contribution is important to lifting this situation. but there can be no peace with poverty, with despair, with the marginalization of the palestinian people. this poverty, this marginalization, is the best ally of the extremist paramilitary organizations. the second concerns the unacceptable tactics pursued by the israeli authorities in the occupied palestinian territories, and particularly in east jerusalem. the illegal settlement, the de facto annexation of territory, the construction of the wall, the forced expropriation of palestinian property continue. the council of ministers adopted specific decisions on east jerusalem on 7 november. on 12 december he again discussed the question of east jerusalem. i believe that the european union must take immediate action to respond to the unacceptable israeli tactics. we must not continue to fuel the radicalisation of extremist palestinian organisations, and here israel has a great responsibility.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i thank mrs estrela for her initiative and work and the members of the women's committee who have been involved in this effort. my colleagues have mentioned the discrimination and the problems facing women today in the labour market in terms of their access and advancement, as well as the particular problems faced by vulnerable groups in our society, such as immigrants and older women. and we see today that no social model in the european union has dealt with this issue with remarkable success. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i would therefore ask the european commission to address the issue of the different definitions and methods of calculating labour market participation. we do not have the same concept of the unemployed, the seasonal unemployed, the longterm unemployed. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. the commission also has to take account of the significant differences in concepts and policies concerning parental leave, the use of rights, etc. we cannot talk about an attempt to achieve the lisbon objectives when there are so many different concepts and approaches in the member states. i would also like to stress the importance to be attached to the proposal in the estrela report for a collective and comprehensive approach to the subject of women. mainstreaming, which is a philosophy of the european union, must be integrated into all policies and evaluations both in the european union and in the member states' action plans. finally, i would ask you, in the european commission's assessments of progress towards the lisbon objectives and the structural funds' assessments, to always have this mainstreaming dimension. our committee will be an ally in your endeavour.
the measures proposed in the report under discussion, mr president, while appearing to address unemployment among women and the problems of equality, actually lead to the curtailing or even the abolition of the positive arrangements and rights which women had won through the hard struggles of the workers', people's and women's movements. they are related to the implementation of the lisbon strategy. they promote parttime work, flexible working, shift work, or fixed-term contracts in the areas of family care, social, health, etc. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. the commissioner, working women, the women of the working classes, are the ones who are crushed by anti-people politics because women who have wealth do not have such problems. the report also highlights the model and philosophy of the family as a productive unit that solves the needs of its members. and in our opinion, it is extremely dangerous. the increase in the responsibilities of the man is done to convince the popular family that the responsibility for the reproduction of its members is theirs. so you put everything on the family, and the problem of children, and health, and education, and at the same time you hand these sectors over to the vulgar trade, to the buying and selling, and you bring the layers to a dead end. we believe that the measures are a distraction from the demand for the integration of women in social work and a simultaneous state policy that will facilitate the woman and mother and protect the child and the elderly. these are proposals which ultimately aim at the downgrading and further privatisation and commercialisation of existing social services with the consent of women and the working class family.
mr president, it has been said on several occasions that the european employment strategy is a key instrument for implementing the lisbon strategy and provides for a european employment rate of 70% and, in particular, 60% for women. the report on which we are called upon to vote today, and for which i warmly congratulate mrs estrela, the rapporteur, and the committee and colleagues who have taken part in the debate today - because they have indeed enriched the subject with their ideas - will help to achieve this objective by ensuring the much-debated equality of treatment and the qualitative improvement of women's participation in the labour market. women in the union not only account for more than half of the total population, but also account for 58% of higher education graduates and 41% of doctoral holders. it is a capital which must be preserved through lifelong learning and put to good use in quality jobs and in new forms of service provision, such as parttime work, teleworking, flexible working hours, but which will be chosen freely and will not lead to a split in women's personalities which may even lead to schizophrenia. such situations arise not only from unequal treatment in wages but also from a lack of legal protection in professional development, which is affected by family life. but whether we like it or not, the demographic development of the union depends on this family life. the disparity begins in the training period. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all students, regardless of their nationality, and that the right to education should be guaranteed to all students. targets of 90% for school age and 33% for early childhood childcare coverage are not sufficient unless they provide quality pre-school education, which is only achieved in a few european countries. these positions must be cheap and not linked to a reduction in women's income. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant women equal rights in the labour market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information society is not only a source of information but also a source of information. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help women who are unemployed, and has also set up a number of special programmes to help women who are unemployed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the next item is voting. (for the results and other information on the vote: see minutes) )
mr beazley, that is for the president to decide, who is in charge of the proceedings of the house. i have decided to have the vote checked to satisfy everyone that this is indeed the result.
we're not having this conversation. following adoption of the commission proposal
the time for voting is over.
in writing. the new amendments to the rules of conduct for members of the european parliament, in the name of the proper functioning of parliament, attempt to restrict and control the expression of reactions, protests and disagreements by means of policing and sanctions. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union, and the council has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union. the new authoritarian measures include financial sanctions, a ban on participation in meetings and bodies, and even a proposal to lose the parliamentary office. in this way, they try to limit any reactions with banners, picket lines, etc., by "cutting" the fact that they are not tolerated if they create "conflicts" or cause disruption of parliamentary activity. similar threats and sanctions are provided for in cases of breach of confidentiality provisions concerning 'closed meetings' and the publication of documents, which are often circulated in the media. we oppose the new authoritarian amendments and declare that we will not be disciplined and will try in every way to highlight the people's problems and inform the people, to whom we apologize.
in writing. the report is an unacceptable attempt to distort the will of the french and dutch peoples, who solemnly rejected the reactionary european constitutional treaty, and to try to bring it back through the back door. the report does not even discuss minor amendments to the content of the euro-constitution, which it takes for granted. boldly disregarding the expressed popular will, it is attempting to organise a campaign of disinformation and blackmailing of workers to finally accept the euro-constitution, to come into force in 2009. this is why it is seeking to organise a staged 'social dialogue' and is giving the media an even more active role in the attempt to brainwash the masses of the people so that they will agree to the adoption of the euro-constitution at gunpoint. the commission has therefore proposed to spend a lot of money to achieve the objective of distorting consciences. let them decide. the euro-constitution is dead, and no campaign of blackmailing the people will resurrect it. the people of the eu must realise that there can be no good euro-constitution from the imperialist union of european capital. the only positive development for the workers and the popular strata is the policy of weakening the eu and the definitive burial of any attempt to restore any constitutional - alleged - arrangement of this reactionary organization.
i have read the report and listened carefully to mr solana. i am not sure that they are primarily in the interests of europe. i have a feeling we're still serving america's interests, and that's a problem. they are dragging us into a hostility towards russia, a belligerency against china, as well as iran. we must not get involved in the logic of america. we must learn to say no to america if we are to have a meaningful foreign policy, which i do not understand how sweden and greece, cyprus and estonia can have in common, since we have such different issues to deal with in each country. mr schulz said there was a threat to the european sub-group. yes, there is a threat. the turkish 'casus belli' against greece is a threat. the continuous daily violation of greek airspace by turkish warplanes is a threat. the wall in nicosia is a threat. the wall of jerusalem is a threat. so can we say that all the occupying armies should leave the countries where they are? the occupying army must leave cyprus, the israeli occupying army must leave...... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, i too would like to begin by congratulating my colleagues, véronique de keyser and edward mcmillan-scott, on their important contribution to the monitoring of the palestinian elections. the palestinian people voted democratically and i believe that all of us today must respect the democratic will of the palestinian people and shape the new european strategy in the light of the new political reality in the middle east and palestine. unfortunately mr solana is not here today to tell him that it was a very serious mistake to say, a week before the palestinian elections, that financial aid to palestine should be frozen if hamas wins. the palestinian people have a right to selfdetermination, and the palestinians have a right to selfdetermination. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks of noise. i do not see a statement, a demonstration of sensitivity about the unilateral policy of the israeli government, i do not see a statement about the policy and the decision of mr olmert to freeze the $50 million in restitution to the palestinian authority. i would ask the commission to ask for an extension of the ceasefire with hamas. this is an important issue and not a series of unilateral terms on the part of the palestinians.
the mediterranean represents a very important part of the european union. the mediterranean fisheries represent an important sector of community fisheries. we want a living mediterranean, not a dead sea. for many of us, this sea is our life. we want the fish stocks to be preserved. we don't want the overfishing. we want sustainability in this sea. the european parliament and the commission adopted a draft management measure for fisheries in the mediterranean. we urgently call for the implementation and execution of what has been decided. i do not want to go too far, but it would not be an exaggeration to say that any delay in this matter is criminal. we are also asking for the measures to be extended in the future, that is to say, to put pressure on third countries in the mediterranean to apply the measures we are applying. this is our duty, to protect the mediterranean, which is our life. but above all, today, not tomorrow, we ask the council to implement what has been agreed.
mr president, one year after the adoption of the report on the council proposal on sustainable fisheries in the mediterranean, it is clear that there has been no council decision on its implementation. we have also been informed, to the great surprise of the committee on fisheries, that the budget for the fisheries fund has already been cut by 20%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind, and that the fisheries sector is not left behind. at the same time, the mediterranean basin is constantly being populated by new populations, resulting in a continuous burden of industrial, urban or other waste with direct and serious negative impacts on fisheries. the relevant proposals for regulations and draft reports before they are implemented should clearly include studies by the scientific community on the impact of environmental pollution, geological changes, population differences and the needs of fish consumption. it is not possible to disapply the policy that has been decided on and at the same time to leave open unresolved issues in the fisheries sector, mainly concerning fishing methods, the reduction of stocks and the continuing gap between professional and amateur fishermen. it is therefore necessary to use the political means at our disposal to promote the report from the council and to start the dialogue with the parties concerned now to improve the existing regulation.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mrs carlshamre on her report, which she has written with such passion, keeping a problem for civilized human society up to date. as shown in the report systematically compiled by the relevant directorate of the european commission and published in december 2005 and in the council of europe survey, violence against women is the leading cause of death for women aged 16-44. although, as you said, commissioner, there is no universally accepted definition of violence against women, the phenomenon crosses borders and is not hindered by social status. any woman can be a victim of violence, but any form of violence is a violation of human rights and a violation of the rights to life, safety, dignity, physical and mental integrity. it is an obstacle to the development of a democratic society. it excludes women from social life and the labour market. it can lead to marginalization and poverty. this social problem must be eliminated in the interests of the integration of more women into the labour market. a form of violence is psychological: the humiliation, the threat, the abuse, that destabilize a woman's personality and disrupt her behavior so that she is incapable of contributing to her environment. but if there is to be any effect, violence must be reported and therefore confidence in the authorities, in the responsible services, in the judicial authorities must be increased. the measures to be taken must be coordinated, and i congratulate you, commissioner, for having shown your willingness to take these measures, finding the appropriate legal bases and taking the programme to combat violence away from other issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the subject of the estrela report is at the heart of our concern for the quality of european democracy, but it is also directly linked to our development objectives, and in particular to the lisbon strategy, which has been the subject of our parliament's meeting with the national parliaments in recent days. the report by mrs estrela is of particular importance, and i thank her for taking the initiative in drawing it up, because it is the first report to deal with the situation of gender equality in the europe of 25. despite its descriptive nature, it provides useful information on this situation and the need to address inequalities. we have seen that, despite the economic slowdown, there is an increase in women's employment. the 55.1%, which is the current average, is an optimistic signal that we can achieve the lisbon targets of 60% by 2010. however, a deeper and more careful analysis reveals that the position of women on the labour market is precarious, because unemployment is increasing at the expense of women, the share of parttime work is much higher for women than for men, pay differentials still exist in all sectors and certain categories, such as those of immigrants, are victims of particular discrimination on the labour market. the reconciliation of family and working life remains a major challenge, especially for women with young children. the proposals in the estrela report, i think, were unanimously adopted in our committee, and i too believe that we need a national strategy with well-coordinated objectives in the member states, which on the one hand promote mainstreaming in all policies and on the other hand implement measures to eliminate discrimination wherever it exists. but it also requires very good cooperation between the governmental bodies and the social partners, non-governmental organisations, especially women's organisations, and the commission must monitor the implementation of the acquis communautaire and take a deeper approach to the issue with more qualitative analysis.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the liberalization of the postal services is part of the overall liberalization of services, the privatization of public utilities, and it affects all workers. the social need for reliable modern postal services is being exploited to ensure greater returns for capital. under the pretext of new business models, the redundancies and the change in the employment relationships of postal workers are taking on a massive character. the report, again on the pretext of changing communication behaviour, paves the way for a review of the definition of the universal service. the obligation on the operator of this service to provide easy access to the postal network for all users at sufficient fixed access points with collection and distribution covering national and cross-border services is to be abolished. these amendments, in a process of liberalisation of postal services and the completion of the internal market for postal services in 2009, as indicated in the report, objectively enable private postal services to capture the largest share of the postal market at the expense of public postal services with painful consequences for users and employees in general. that is why we are against it and we shall vote against the report.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road transport is not compromised by the lack of safety standards. how many times has a tragic accident on europe's motorways not been proved to be the result of human error? and how often, really, has this mistake not been made by professional truck and bus drivers, who are very often forced to work under exhausting conditions? we must therefore give these people the possibility of having fewer hours of driving - daily and weekly - and longer periods of rest. this will lead to a reduction in road accidents. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. in my country, as elsewhere in europe, we have unfortunately had many such incidents, and especially recently. it is therefore very positive that there is harmonisation of these issues at european level, as road transport by its nature goes beyond the borders of a member state. we have made great efforts to convince the council of the correctness of our positions. unfortunately, we were unable to get through all our seats. i think that we should celebrate the result of our efforts and in future exhaust and examine all the issues, such as the total working time of professional drivers and, above all, the observance of the rules and the supervision of safety.
in writing. the kke votes against the report because it exploits the social problems of the working class family to accelerate and generalize capitalist restructuring to both sexes. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. in the absence of state welfare structures, it is proposed to transfer the burden to the family, but on an equal footing! that is, the man also has to resort to part-time work to compensate for the lack of state care in reproduction, care for the elderly or the disabled, and finally the popular family is unable to meet basic needs. the so-called elimination of the gender division of labour was used as an alibi to deprive women of rights deriving from their special needs due to their reproductive function. we denounce as disorienting the literature on 'changing the gender composition of power'. politics is not defined by gender. the power of plutocracy will not change with more women in the institutions that serve it. women's problems have their origin in the capitalist system which exploits women and men, exploiting gender and age to generalize capital's policy to both sexes. the basis for the exchange rate can only be laid in the framework of a people's power, where the means of production and the goods produced will be the property of the people.
mr president, two months ago we voted here mr alavanos' thoughts on phone tapping. here's the shocking news: they were following, for a year, the prime minister of greece, the minister of national defense, the minister of public order, the chief of police, the chief of the secret service, the chief of the counter-terrorism team! for a year they've been watching them, for a year they can't be found, and no one knows for sure what plans have been leaked! what extremely confidential talks with the members of the european union! i would therefore like to know, through parliament, whether the european union has been informed of these interceptions, which were carried out by vodaphone. secondly, since telephones are so easily monitored - and i am talking about the telephone of the prime minister of greece, i am talking about the telephone of the minister of public order of greece, i am talking about the telephone of the minister of foreign affairs of greece - how can we be sure that telephones are not monitored here in the european parliament?
mr president, two weeks ago in greece the operation of an extensive telephone tapping network was revealed. the greek government was informed of the problem in march 2005 but kept it hidden for eleven months! the political question that has arisen is a huge one and concerns the european parliament: firstly, the greek government does not appear to have informed the commission or the council of the breach of security in greece, at the very time when europe was discussing the famous directive on the retention of our sensitive telecommunications data in the breaches, as it turns out, of the data banks of service providers. secondly, the greek government did not inform the other member states either, so that they could immediately take measures to shield and protect the data of their own citizens from vodaphone and ericsson. thirdly, it also concealed the fact from the competent independent national authority for ensuring the confidentiality of communications. fourth, it did not even inform the victims of the interceptions for eleven whole months, exposing them to the risk of a continuing breach of their privacy.
mr president, the citizens and residents of the european union have a right of reference guaranteed by the treaties. however, the rules of operation of the committee on petitions are not clear and it seems that selfish or political objectives are often pursued through the committee. i would also like to point out that the european citizens are being treated differently and i explain how: on the pretext that there is a pending case, their cases have not led to a report. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. the law of the land is not respected here. i would ask you, mr president, to block the cashman report, not because of its content, but because you want to avoid setting a precedent for interference with the work of justice and discrimination against european citizens.
mr president, i would like to refer to the recent crisis over the drawings of the prophet mohammed, which has been mentioned by other colleagues. we live in these days and try to clarify, the boundaries of free speech and cultural freedom, of the free and theocratic world, often based on the theory of the clash of civilizations. i believe that there are no two worlds in conflict - i am sure most colleagues believe this - but an open world in which we are forced to coexist. the crisis is brewing in a period of mutual suspicion between the west and islam and, i fear, (especially with regard to the war in iraq) with the west's responsibility. unfortunately, public opinion in the west associates the muslim faith with terrorism. on the contrary, the public opinion of islam considers terrorism to be an invention of the powerful of the earth to intervene in the internal affairs of any country they wish. ladies and gentlemen, the world we live in is not ours. we've borrowed it from the next generation. it's our responsibility to respect him!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 february it will be seven years since the libyan authorities arrested five bulgarian nurses and a palestinian doctor on the charge of infecting children with aids at the benghazi children's hospital. the subsequent death sentence by the libyan court has mobilized the bulgarian authorities and european diplomacy. although their death sentence was recently overturned by the libyan supreme court, in view of the resumption of the trial, we can send them a message of support, while asking the libyan authorities to ensure that the new trial is fair and objective. we must also stand by the children of libya who have been infected by the virus and at the same time work to create the conditions for a just solution to this sad story.
mr president, the tragic sinking of the elderly, 35-year-old, sub-contractor, passenger transport ship el salam 98, which dragged a thousand passengers and crew to the watery grave of the red sea, is another link in the long chain of maritime crimes committed on the altar of profit. we extend our heartfelt condolences to the families of the passengers and crew who lost their lives. we would like to point out that in a reasoned opinion-ultimatum sent by the european commission in december 2005 to the greek government on the implementation of regulation 3577/92, adopting the claims of shipowners under the pretext of alleged unfair competition, it abolishes basic criteria for the navigability and safety of passenger vessels, such as the horsepower and capacity of ships and the thirty-year age limit for the retirement of ships, which has been established in our country. we call on the european commission to put an end to this process. there is an urgent need, through the international maritime organization... (the speaker is interrupted by the president)
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mr berman on his report. i would like to make it clear from the outset that i am in favour of animal welfare, of all animals in general, but also of chickens in particular. in fact, to put it mildly, i say this shows our humanity towards our fellow human beings on the planet. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the other hand, we allow chickens from third countries, everything but weapons. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. this is doubly bad: both for the poultry farmers, a class in which we must show solidarity, and for the chickens, because in a few years we will be importing poultry products from third countries which are produced without any protection in terms of animal welfare. if we are not to be hypocrites, we must find a way of controlling the living conditions of chickens in third countries, otherwise we should not allow imports. the labelling mentioned by mr kyprianou is very good, we are bidding for it and we want it to move in this direction, but we should also consider subsidising poultry farmers only in the amount associated with the measures we are imposing on them. otherwise, we will wipe out the poultry farmers and the poultry we bring in from abroad will have been reared under very bad conditions. it is not a crime to protect the poultry farmers, a class that demands our solidarity.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the objective of the state aid, that is to say the money of the workers, is to reduce it and to control its management by the european union so that it can serve the lisbon strategy. this means less state aid for the needs of the people and more in the service of the competitiveness of european capital. so the people's money will not be for the people's welfare but for the profit of capital. references to state aid for objectives of common interest and to the common interest at european union level not only show a disregard for uneven development between member states but also predict that such a process will further enhance this uneven development, increasing inequality and injustice. it is imperative, they say, that state aid be reduced to have a positive effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. public services are being privatized, basic needs of the people are being commodified. the reduction of state aid and its orientation towards the anti-people strategy of lisbon will only worsen the situation of the popular strata. despite the reference to financing of smes for investment, the data unfortunately show that, up to now, there has been no financial support for small businesses or that it has been on the wane. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur, mr hökmark, for his balanced report on state aid, which is the same as a balanced report and presentation of state aid by the commission. in this context, i would like to highlight a number of important points which should be given priority: first, the need to redefine the objectives and forms of state aid and the system for monitoring and reporting state aid; secondly, to ensure legal clarity as to what constitutes state aid to services of general economic interest, where overcompensation should be considered the most relevant criterion; differentiating state aid between small and large public enterprises and also promoting business subsidisation, which should be combined with strong tax incentives; finally, support for innovative research, development and innovation actions, particularly in remote countries and regions, and particularly where there is a large technological gap.
member of the commission. mr president, i am pleased to contribute to this debate on the confiscation of cars in greece. i have read, and now i have heard, mr cashman’s report with great interest, and i share all the concerns expressed in it. the issues highlighted in the report are of great importance not only for this specific case but also as regards their impact on the commission initiatives in the field of car taxation and the fundamental rights of citizens. let me say a few words on the case in question. in addition to the numerous petitions received by parliament, the commission has received a great number of complaints over recent years about an administrative practice which leads to the confiscation of cars. i do not intend to go deeply into technical details, but, as you know, community law allows a citizen resident in one member state – i emphasise ‘resident’ and not ‘national’ – to use his or her car for personal reasons in another member state without being obliged to register his or her car in that other member state, provided certain conditions are met. one of these conditions is that the use in the other member state does not exceed six months in one year. the application of this directive has been quite problematic in greece. it has led to an administrative practice which, unfortunately, has disregarded the fact that, in many cases, the normal residence of greek citizens is in a state other than greece. this practice penalises mostly greek nationals who do not live and work in greece on a permanent basis. the outcome has been, as you can see from the report, the imposition of very high fines resulting in the confiscation of the vehicles concerned, followed sometimes by their sale at auction, even before a national judge could come to a decision on the case. the commission has also been informed in the past that, in some cases, this has led to prison sentences. for these reasons, the commission has launched an infringement procedure and brought the case before the european court of justice. let me stress that it is neither the intention nor to the benefit of the commission to single out one member state instead of another, since in one way or another every member state faces its own difficulties in the path towards the realisation of a real internal market, where fundamental freedoms and the respect of community law should be guaranteed. to a large extent, car taxation is not yet harmonised at community level. nevertheless, the freedom that member states enjoy has to be exercised within the framework laid down by the directives applicable in this field and within the general principles of community law, which represent the fundamentals of the construction of the european union. when an individual incurs significant adverse economic consequences if he or she seeks to make use of his of her car for a certain period of time in another member state, especially when this is allowed by community law, this represents a risk to the free movement of citizens within the union. it is also true that member states are free to determine the fines that they feel are adequate for an infringement of their laws, assuming that an infringement really occurs. however, they should respect the principle of proportionality. a practice which also disregards the evidence that residence is maintained in a member state or which imposes high fines without taking into account the good faith of the offender should also be rectified. the commission, at this stage, has taken all the necessary steps allowed by the treaty in order to tackle this situation. however, the commission welcomes an initiative like this, which allows a further reflection on the impact that vehicle taxation has on the life of eu citizens. to conclude, let me say that, looking at the broader perspective, the commission is not only proceeding with its infringement policy but is also taking a proactive approach in the field of legislative proposals. in july 2005, the commission adopted my proposal on a draft directive on car taxation, which is intended to remove existing tax obstacles to the transfer of passenger cars from one member state to another and thus improve the functioning of the internal market. one of the objectives of the proposal is the abolition of the registration tax in order to incorporate it into the annual circulation tax over a period of five to ten years. the proposal is currently being discussed in various parliamentary committees and in the council, and i call for your support on this matter. i thank you for your attention and look forward to the debate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the matter. it is essentially based on less than a dozen pre-2004 case reports whose authors have either settled with the greek authorities or are in court and need support. i shall deal with three issues: as regards the report's relation to the work of the committee on petitions, i have to point out that, scandalously, and although it was formally requested, no written opinion was ever given by the legal service of the european parliament on whether, while there is a pending case both in the ecj and in the national courts, it is possible to draw up a report and put it to the vote in the european parliament. is there not a discrimination against citizens whose reports have not been reported precisely because of the pending trial? as regards content, only one member state, greece, was selected, while confusion about the use of cars for private use with foreign plates exists in the other 24 member states. that is why the commission has proposed a new proposal for a directive, as you said, and has already taken greece to the ecj for failure to comply with the 1983 directive. this has resulted in the legislation of greece being changed, both by the socialist government of greece in 2001 and more recently by the government of the new republic in 2005, which the report ignores. so why was the report written? the specific few references that led to its drafting are not representative but their authors give the impression that they have personal relations of favour with parliament. the committee on petitions has no right to play the role of judge and to accept as true, without proof, facts such as permanent residence, on which the courts are called upon to decide. the report started with an assumed number of 40 cases and it turned out that the cases are few, some of them have been settled and others are pending. i call on my colleagues in all the groups to vote against the report and to give the committee on petitions the dignity it deserves, respecting the rule of law and non-interference in the work of justice. i hope, commissioner, that the proposed new 2005 directive will be developed well and quickly.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, as vice-chairman of the committee on petitions of the european parliament and since we are discussing the report by mr cashman on car seizures in greece, i must point out the following: firstly, not all cases have been decided before the judicial authorities, so there is a pending case, and, if we assume that we have this competence, why has it not been applied to other similar cases? i would like to give you an example of the report on the redundancies at the syel.ae fertiliser plant, a subject on which a report was requested but never produced, pending the appeal. secondly, the report concerns only greece, whereas corresponding reports have been submitted for other member states of the european union. it is obvious from the above that european citizens are being treated differently by the european parliament itself. now let's look at the report, the reports and the data: the community directive 83/182 on tax exemptions lays down the conditions for the temporary admission and carriage of private cars. it does not specify the fines to be imposed, a matter for which the member states are responsible. the greek legislation on fines was introduced to crack down on economic crime in the automobile sector at a time when it was at its peak. the fines were not only imposed on individuals but also on traders and organised groups which were clearly targeted for tax evasion. as regards the failure to apply the principle of proportionality, invoked in the report on the imposition of fines based solely on the volume of vehicles, the court notes that the introduction of such measures is necessary for reasons of repression and prevention. the greek legislation has already been improved by law 2960/2001, which abolished the penalty for smuggling and the confiscation of vehicles, providing only for temporary seizure until the imposed fine is paid for reasons of public security. therefore, acquittal decisions were issued on the criminal part and not on the fines. as regards fines, a draft law was submitted to the greek parliament on 22.12.2005, which provides for the reduction and application of a temporary freezing order only in exceptional cases. i think it is clear that we are all in favour of the application of community law, while at the same time recognising the crucial specificities of the member states.
member of the commission. mr president, i have listened to the debate attentively and i wish to comment on a few aspects. it is true that since the beginning of the infringement procedure, the situation has improved in the member state concerned. i would like to recall that until a few years ago the fines imposed were those applying to infringement of the customs legislation and also that smuggling was one of the crimes envisaged by the national law. this, fortunately, is no longer the case and the commission wants to express its satisfaction at the progress made. however, further steps still have to be taken to align national practice with community law. let me clarify one important point: the high registration taxes on vehicles that are applied in some member states on the occasion of a permanent transfer of residence are a completely different issue from the one dealt with in mr cashman’s report. on the one hand, the determination of the amount of registration tax due when a person registers a car in one state depends on the tax policy of the member state concerned. european law – particularly the prohibition of discrimination against imported goods in favour of domestic goods – may have a bearing with respect to how the tax is calculated, especially with respect to the value attributed to second-hand cars. however, community law does not prevent a member state from applying a high registration tax on vehicles. on the other hand, mr cashman’s report deals with the application of an existing directive, which allows a temporary use of a vehicle in another member state without the obligation to re-register it. i would add that this is an issue of concrete application of community law by national authorities. the report concerns, inter alia, the interpretation of the concept of ‘normal residence’ by the national authorities, which runs counter to the principles enshrined in the directive itself. in fact, the directive is able to function properly only if a person who resides in one member state is allowed to use his vehicle in the territory of a member state other than that where the normal residence is located. if evidence of residence in the first state is not accepted or is rendered difficult by the second state, the directive has no chance of being applied correctly. i would also remind you that the issue concerns the freedom to provide and receive services in another member state. this is the core point of the case being discussed now. before concluding, i wish to react to some of the issues and questions raised by some of the participants in the debate. it is true that other member states are also infringing community law, but these infringements are in connection with other aspects of car taxation, such as discrimination in levying registration tax, and there has been no confiscation of cars, which also points to the lack of proportionality. another issue raised during the debate was whether it was legal or legitimate that actions are being taken when the european court of justice is still discussing the case. we sought the opinion of parliament’s legal service. it had no objections, and the commission is certainly not in a position to review the view of parliament’s legal service. to conclude, i want to say that in this case, bearing in mind that the commission is still receiving complaints on this issue, the commission has taken all the action possible. a case is pending before the european court of justice. of course this pending case does not in any way prevent a member state that wishes to comply with community law from changing its legislation in the meantime before the decision is issued. we have indeed heard that greece has drafted or is drawing up legislation, but as we have not received any official signal from the greek authorities, we cannot give our opinion on it. the commission very much welcomes the encouraging signals that it has received from the greek authorities during the debates in parliament and would also welcome this being consolidated by the adoption of the new law. thank you very much for your attention.
mr president, i would like to ask you if we are going to have a second reading because you have given the floor to mr cashman. if that's the case, we should talk. we should ask the commissioner why he is behaving in such a negative way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr agnoletto, on the excellent work he has presented. i think it is important that mr agnoletto in his report refers to the new role that must be given to the european parliament, not only in the negotiation of agreements with third countries but also in the implementation and monitoring. this would significantly change the institutional framework in which these agreements are concluded. it is right that mr agnoletto suggests extending the human rights clause to all sectors and all countries and it is interesting the precedent he uses to support this view. it is right that mr agnoletto is calling for better control and better monitoring of the parties' compliance with what they sign, because, as you all know, it is often easy to sign but difficult to comply. it is right that mr agnoletto refers to the need for a mechanism which deals with the implementation of agreements and not only. it is right that it insists on making the human rights dimension very visible in this mechanism. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas, which is the subject of a proposal by the committee on agriculture, is a very good one, and i think that it is a good one, because it is a very good one, and it is a very good one, because it is a very good one, and it is a very good one, because it is a very good one, and it is a very good one, and it is a very good one, because it is a very good one, and it is a very good one, and it is a very good one, and it is a very good one, and it is a very good one, because it is a very good one, and it is a very good one, and it is a very good one, and it is a very good one, and it is a very good one, and it is a very good one, and it is a very good one, and it is a very good one.
the democratic principle in the union's external relations, which we are discussing today on the occasion of the report by mr agnoletto, whom i congratulate, raises a number of crucial questions. i'll limit myself, for time's sake, to five of them. question number one: will the union continue to confine itself to the more or less declaratory nature of the clause on human rights and democracy, or will it try to reduce - and this is my proposal - the democratic principle to a suitable legal instrument, a sine qua non for the proper functioning of agreements with third countries? question number two: are the selective deductions of the democracy clause permissible? is the differentiated intensity allowed in the wording of this principle? the answer is obvious. the credibility of the invocation of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms must be subject to the logic of 'equal measures, equal weight'. question three: is it sufficient to describe a system as democratic only on the basis of electoral competition and free elections? the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. it calls for participatory political rights, for horizontal political accountability. it calls for good governance, institutional security and social cohesion. question four: does the union, and we, the body with the most democratic legitimacy, intend to establish quality indicators to measure and evaluate the democratic behaviour of our private economic and commercial partners, and even more so of the non-european countries which are called upon, or are to be called upon, to meet the so-called 'copenhagen criteria'? question five and last: the european union's external relations are characterized by the proclamation of the democratic principle and the market economy in parallel, but in practice the market economy takes precedence. if anything, will we restore that imbalance?
mr president, i too would like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mr agnoletto, on his important report. the incorporation of a human rights clause into the european union's agreements, from the beginning of the 1990s, was a real political and institutional breakthrough. but today, in taking stock, we should be honest and say that the results are not very positive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. on the one hand, the european union can freeze relations and agreements - mr ford spoke and gave examples - but on the other hand it does nothing about the violation of human rights in tunisia, egypt, israel and turkey. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the provision for unanimity to take action and the suspension of an agreement will continue to cancel out in practice any serious effort. the european union cannot pursue a dynamic foreign policy by unanimity. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i agree with all the proposals made by my colleague, mr agnoletto. but we must understand that the serious shortcomings in foreign policy and human rights policy are due to and linked to the transnational character and the envisaged consensus behind which national interests and different political considerations and priorities are hidden. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in reply to mr papadimoulis' question, i can emphasize that the same criteria apply to all the countries of the western balkans. this is a principle which the council has always upheld and which of course also applies to serbia and montenegro. i would remind you that the heads of state or government of the eu member states and the western balkan countries made a commitment to the stabilisation and association process at the zagreb summit in november 2000. it was clarified that accession to the european union was subject to compliance with the provisions of the treaty on european union, the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria and progress on the stabilisation and association agreements. it is self-evident that all states must meet these conditions equally and without discrimination . in addition, there is a commitment to regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations, which are very important components of the stabilisation and association process. this commitment was reaffirmed in the thessaloniki summit declaration in 2003, which also recognised the european perspective of these countries. i would like to remind you once again that one of the priorities of the austrian presidency is to reaffirm this european perspective in a balkans focus during the six months of the austrian presidency, with the western balkan countries having the opportunity to become members of the european union if they fulfil the conditions. as regards serbia and montenegro, this country has been benefiting from trade concessions and financial and technical assistance since 2000 as part of the stabilisation and association process. since 2001, the european union has also provided serbia and montenegro with political advice through the advisory task force, which was later replaced by the enhanced permanent dialogue in preparation for the negotiation of a stabilisation and association agreement. in order to make progress in the different phases of the negotiation process, serbia and montenegro must continue to cooperate very closely and in a sustainable manner with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. this applies equally to serbia and montenegro, as it did to croatia and as it does to all the other countries concerned. the european commission is also monitoring serbia and montenegro's cooperation with the international criminal court during the stabilisation and association agreement negotiations. should the commission conclude that full cooperation is not possible, it may decide, together with the council, to suspend these negotiations. i have already pointed out that serbia and montenegro, like all the other countries in the region, must of course meet the copenhagen criteria. this includes political stability, respect for human rights and the ability to meet the specific requirements of the stabilisation and association process. the member also mentioned kosovo. i would point out that the european council in june 2005 made clear what the european union expects from the parties in relation to kosovo. both belgrade and pristina were urged not to impede the introduction of the necessary standards in kosovo. as you know, negotiations are currently under way on the status of kosovo. in this process, however, both parties must demonstrate their goodwill in order to reach a mutually acceptable solution. the council stated on that occasion that any solution must be fully in line with european values and standards and contribute to the realisation of the european perspective for kosovo and the region. he also stated that the final status of kosovo must lead to greater security and stability in the region and that any solution imposed only unilaterally or by the use of force would therefore be unacceptable.
mr president-in-office, thank you very much for your reply. i noted with particular interest that the council and the austrian presidency will have exactly the same criteria and will show the same interest in the european perspective of serbia and montenegro as in that of croatia. i would like to ask you, more specifically, how exactly you in the council are linking the european perspective of serbia-montenegro with the discussions on the future of kosovo.
mr president, the directive on the freedom to provide services and the freedom of establishment is part of the european union's general anti-people policy and is based on the maastricht treaty and the endorsed objective of the lisbon strategy for the creation of the single market, with the primary objective of strengthening competitiveness, maximising the profitability of monopolies through the privatisation of public and public services and attacking fundamental labour and social rights of the working class, the oaths of allegiance to the principles of the complete abolition of monopolies were arrogantly reiterated today by the president of the european commission, mr barroso. the political agreement between the ppe and the socialists with the package of amendments does not change the reactionary nature of the directive, the basic principle of which is the country of origin, i.e. complete insurance for capital and the destruction of thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises and self-employed people. the recommendations on the alleged respect for labour rights are an attempt to sell the pill and defuse the reactions of the workers. the argument that liberalisation will mean cheaper services for the people is not valid, because the directive will concentrate services in fewer hands and monopolies will set quality and prices according to their profit growth, so we will vote against the directive. you sow winds, you are sure to reap storms. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the european left calls for the bolkestein proposal to be withdrawn and, in any case, for the principle of the country of origin to be abolished, which is retained and renamed the 'principle of freedom to provide services'. the deliberate ambiguity of the new wording paves the way for the negative interpretations of the court of justice of the european communities, which commissioner mcgreevy has also mentioned. we also ask that services of general economic interest be explicitly excluded from the scope. we are seeking to establish uniform european standards for services, to prevent social dumping and unfair competition by leveraging companies with more flexible social and environmental legislation. the fragile compromise between the euro-right and the socialists, under pressure from the reactions and the trade union mobilizations, moderates but does not negate the neoliberal philosophy and the negative charge of the proposal. the european left rejects the disguised bolkestein and will seek, through amendments, to limit the negative consequences.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on services in the internal market could be useful if it focused on the harmonization of labour regulations with a view to their maximum improvement and the convergence of economic structures and technological capabilities. the commission's proposal for a directive, however, under the pretext of institutional shortcomings and apparent dysfunctions, imposes a different strategy for the social interests, which aims at further strengthening capital and overturning any labour conquests. the european socialists are fighting a historic battle! the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one, and it is a very important one. the principle of the country of origin is the one which will ultimately be applied, since the article 16 in question, which is both the substance and the point of the directive, does not radically alter it and services of general economic interest are not essentially excluded from its scope. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament's amendments to the treaties are adopted. time does not allow me to go into further technical analysis, but the point is that economic liberalism, which permeates the text, is not a one-way street.
mr president, i personally had many reservations about the original text presented by the european commission two years ago. however, whatever reservations one may have had are now of little consequence, because this text has been greatly amended by the committee on the internal market of the european parliament and i think it will be even more amended by the plenary session the day after tomorrow. the commission was the first to present a text which was full of excesses and shortcomings and thus undermined the idea of completing the internal market in the european union. it has not properly sought to overcome any administrative or legislative obstacles to facilitate investment in this sector. the commission's policy, particularly in the field of communications, has served a good purpose. this has provoked reactions from various social groups, while the oecd report argues that a rational opening up of services in the member states could create 2,500,000 new jobs, increasing european gdp by 1.8% respectively. the committee on the internal market has made substantial interventions both in the scope of the directive and in workers' rights and i think that the amendments tabled by the socialists and the european people's party further improve the text of the directive, address some problems of the original country of origin and create the conditions for a broad social and parliamentary consensus. the aim of the majority of meps, of all member states and of the european trade unions is not to reject any form of directive on services but to have a better directive on services and i believe that together we will achieve this.
the report by mrs gebhardt (bolkestein directive) is before the house today for debate and vote. it is essentially a dark bilderberg club elaboration to enforce the road map of globalization and the rules of the new world order. as an elected member of the european parliament (and not chosen by some party power controlled by the new order figures) i am absolutely opposed to the logic of this directive, which coldly executes decades of workers' rights. as president of the greek socialist party i will mobilize all the groups of the population affected by the directive for total resistance. i did not take part in the debate, mr president, because the mere presence of those who are ideologically opposed to the directive legitimizes the extreme positions of the person who proposed it. i would like to ask the president-in-office to confirm that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
mr. president, we need to talk about what we're afraid of. the nuclear weapons or the owner? we're afraid of the owner. we are not afraid of nuclear weapons, because when israel acquired the same nuclear weapons a few years ago, we did not make that noise here. you will say to me, "israel has a democracy while iran has a dictatorship. "yes, but pakistan is a dictatorship, musharraf, and we allow him to have nuclear weapons. so let's look at the reality. the myth of goliath and david is being repeated. and then the sling and the stone were not allowed but david used them and made history. what is reality? the reality is we want our own crew to have the nukes and the others don't. that is scary and a-di-de-mo-cat-a-co! we should proceed to a dialogue and not to threats. threats always lead to bad paths. it leads to invasion, it leads to war, it leads to death. no one was ever harmed by the b-a-l-g-o! give it a chance, talk, no matter how much the other side stretches the rope. we have to try, because we are the most civilized!
mr president, there are certain findings which cannot be disputed. we certainly disagree with the authoritarian model of government in iran, we condemn the violations of human rights, but we must all recognize that the iranian people elected their new political leadership through democratic processes. the second finding is that iran has an inalienable right to develop a nuclear programme for peaceful purposes. the third finding is that the nuclear programme is not only identified with president ahmadinejad but has the support of the vast majority of the political forces and the people of iran. there can be no solution outside the search for a political and diplomatic solution through dialogue, negotiations and respect for international law. the european union, and the presidency and the commission, must contribute to stopping the threat or use of military means or preemptive action against iran. the crucial issue for all of us is building mutual trust on the basis of real data and facts, not just information. the european union has every interest in preventing a new iraq in the region, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council.
in writing. the joint resolution of the political groups of the pp, the ps, the neoliberals and europe of nations on iran is fuelling tension and attempting to prepare public opinion to accept a new war being prepared by the imperialists under the pretext of the nuclear threat. despite the rhetorical declarations against war, despite the rhetorical assurances that the eu does not question iran's right to peaceful use of nuclear energy, it is obvious that a planned aggressive plan of the imperialists to control energy sources and the wider region by any means is being implemented. the differences in the distribution of the spoils are related to the differences between the imperialist countries. at the same time, they are trying to prevent other countries from developing technology and not being dependent on big imperialist countries. in this context, a new version of the war plan against iraq is being constructed. whatever the responsibilities of the government of iran, the people must not and will not accept the imperialist designs against iran and other countries in the region. any intervention with or without the consent of the security council will meet with worldwide outrage and mobilization of the peace and popular movement. the only people who can solve the serious political problems in iran are the people themselves.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the prospects for bosnia-herzegovina.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i thank you very much for this debate and for your comments. there is no word that i cannot support in the way it was made. the opinions expressed here also show that the council and the commission are on the right track, and we thank them for their support. i can only agree with baroness ludford. we should not forget that dayton was the starting point for peace when we criticize the structures of dayton today. we should be grateful for that. we must recognize this, even if we can and must admit today that the structures created by dayton are not ideal. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new legislation in the area of the environment. that is undoubtedly true. but let us not forget the reasons why these superstructures exist. these structures were created because there was distrust between the ethnic groups, because they did not trust each other and had to control each other, because - we must not forget this, and the spanish member of parliament mentioned this in connection with the civil war - something unspeakable happened between the ethnic groups. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we as the european union must ensure and help to reduce this distrust. we must make a concrete contribution to the breakthrough of european values in this country, and i naturally support what has been said about the young people. we must encourage the young. we must also encourage the opportunities for young people to travel. of course, part of the package that the european union is preparing will be to provide for possible visa facilitation. i thank you again for your comments. the council will continue to work with the commission to ensure that all these things which have been mentioned as objectives today can be achieved.
member of the commission. mr president, i note the broad agreement in this debate on the need for increased ownership for bosnian politicians and a new role for the international community. i would also like to thank you for this excellent debate, which shows the commitment of the european parliament and the presidency to our common policy in the western balkans and its european perspective. we should all be satisfied with the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement, which has got off to a very good start with bosnia and herzegovina, although we have to recognise that there are still many challenges for the country to tackle. it is about implementation, implementation, implementation in bosnia and herzegovina. moreover, we all agree that dayton put an end to the war, but it is certainly a less suitable framework for a properly functioning state and therefore we have to see ourselves as partners in the constitutional evolution in bosnia and herzegovina. many of you have stressed the need for economic development and i fully share that view. that is why we put forward several proposals in the salzburg communication concerning economic development, trade and investment. in our pre-accession assistance we are already moving from reconstruction to economic development. in the communication we are proposing the setting-up of a regional free trade agreement to replace the current 31 bilateral free trade agreements, in order to encourage trade and investment and thus production and job creation in the area. finally, i fully agree with those who underlined the need to work towards european accession in the present or next generation, which is why the salzburg communication includes proposals concerning visa facilitation and scholarship schemes. to show my personal commitment and that of the commission and president barroso, this week i shall be flying to zagreb and later to sarajevo. (applause)
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the situation in belarus ahead of the presidential elections on 19 march.
member of the commission. i should like to inform the honourable member of parliament that currently, with the sole exception of heavy goods vehicles, there is no harmonisation in the field of vehicle taxes at community level. while directive 1999/62/ec established minimum annual vehicle tax rates for heavy goods vehicles, member states are free to lay down national provisions for car taxation as they see fit. a similar situation exists in the field of tolls and charges for road vehicles, the imposition of which is often related to, and justified by, the costs incurred by national authorities for the construction and upkeep of the road infrastructure. directive 1999/62/ec provides the framework for levying tolls and charges for heavy goods vehicles in a non-discriminatory and proportionate manner. there is no such community legislation for private vehicles. however, national provisions introducing car taxes, tolls or charges have to be in line with the general principle of the ec treaty and, in particular, should not give rise to border-crossing formalities in trade between member states and should respect the non-discrimination principle. the commission is of the opinion that, if the imposition of toll charges for road vehicles is not conditional on a decision to reduce car taxes simultaneously, and if these measures do not include any direct or indirect discrimination based on the nationality of the road vehicle, they are not contrary to article 12 of the ec treaty. i would like to recall that the commission gave a similar reply to an oral question during question time at parliament’s december 2005 part-session. according to the information available to the commission, germany is currently not pursuing the idea of introducing a toll for passenger cars. if germany were to introduce a toll, as referred to in the oral question, the commission would of course examine those provisions in depth.
member of the commission. the white paper on transport policy for 2010 concluded that one of the principal reasons for the imbalance in the transport system is that the modes of transport do not, in every case, pay the costs for which they are responsible. the european parliament confirmed the need for infrastructure charging when it adopted the report of the conclusions of the white paper on 12 january 2003. distance-based road tolls and charges based on the duration of the use of the road have historically been levied on motorways or other main roads to help finance the construction, operation and maintenance of the infrastructure. increasingly, as technology advances, such instruments could also be used to manage traffic: congestion charges, emissions-related charges and so on. most member states levy tolls or charges on at least part of their motorway network. the commission policy on road charges and tolls is that they are an important instrument for financing investment in infrastructure, managing traffic and encouraging private-sector investment in infrastructure management. so commission legislation is currently limited to heavy goods vehicles, as i have already mentioned, but it is a part of our policy.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission attaches great importance to the effects that advertising might have on children’s behaviour. this is particularly the case with the advertising of food products, given the potential relationship with children’s diets and health. on the general basis, the european union is equipped with a number of horizontal norms that touch upon this field and regulate those advertising activities that can influence children’s behaviour, and which also cover food products. first, in respect of television advertising, since 1989 the television without frontiers directive has provided that such advertising shall not cause moral or physical detriment to minors. in particular, television advertising shall not directly exhort minors to buy a product or service by exploiting their inexperience or credulity, directly encourage them to persuade their parents or others to purchase the goods or the services being advertised, or exploit the special trust that minors usually have in parents, teachers and in others close to them. a proposal for an amendment to this directive, adopted by the commission on 13 december 2005, would extend these provisions to other types of audio-visual content. in addition, the unfair commercial practices directive, which was adopted in 2005, includes similar provisions. this will enhance the protection of vulnerable groups of consumers, banning directly exhortations to children to buy advertised products or persuade their parents or other adults to buy advertised products for them. at this stage, the commission does not intend to take any other legislative initiative. the commission now expects self-regulation by the industry to step in and complement in an effective and precise way the provisions of law which are in place. it has initiated a far-reaching process to that end. the european platform on diet, physical activity and health, for example, is meant to bring about non-regulatory measures and firm commitments by the industry. the commission expects that these commitments will include a number that relate to advertising to children. in parallel, the commission has also reinforced its dialogue with industry and others to assess how to further improve advertising self-regulatory measures. in december 2005 the commission adopted a green paper on the promotion of healthy diets and physical activity. one of the questions, for which the green paper specifically invites responses, is: ‘are voluntary codes (“self-regulation”) an adequate tool for limiting the advertising and marketing of energy-dense and micronutrient-poor foods? what would be the alternatives to be considered if this self-regulation fails?’ the commission hopes that this approach will produce meaningful commitments to the benefit of all actors concerned and to society at large. should this not be the case – and this is important – the commission will not hesitate to propose appropriate legislative measures.
member of the commission. it is quite obvious that the nutrition and health of young people is very important, and not only to the commission. i think we can all agree on that. it is also quite clear that we do not want to see a situation where young people might become overweight, causing severe problems later in life, not only for their own health but also for society. therefore we will look into how this works at present. that is why, if – and i stress, if – it does not seem to be working, the commission will be ready to take further steps.
member of the commission. as i said previously, we all have a responsibility to try to ensure that youngsters do not find themselves in a situation where they are more likely to fall ill later on in their lives. clearly, society cannot take responsibility for everybody. therefore, parents and other adults who are around young people during the day have a responsibility in this area. we need to have a discussion in the member states about how much exercise young people do throughout the week at school. there is a clear link between exercise and health, in terms of the diseases you might get if you do not move properly. now, i am old enough to say that, when i was young, we did not have all these video games that exist today – we did not just sit in front of computer screens and enjoy ourselves like that – so we need to encourage young people to get out and get some exercise in order to try to prevent a situation from arising later on in life that none of us would want.
member of the commission. in july 2004 the commission presented a proposal to amend the regulation concerning trans-european networks – tens – under the 2007-2013 financial perspective, which, among other things, provided for a higher rate of support up to 50% for a cross-border section of priority projects. the total allocation amounts to eur 20.35 billion for these tens transport projects. the agreement on the 2007-2013 perspective reached at the december 2005 european council implies a significant reduction of around 40% of the overall amount of appropriations allocated to heading 1a which, in addition to the transport sector, covers areas such as research, education, competitiveness and new technologies. the breakdown of appropriations between the various components of heading 1a has not yet been decided. the commission is therefore unable to give a precise reply to the honourable member regarding the consequences of the reduction of the amounts contained in its original proposal for a financial perspective until the figures have been finally decided upon by interinstitutional agreements. those discussions are ongoing.
mr president, commissioner, i thank you for your answer and your frankness, but i am not convinced that the commission is taking this matter seriously enough in a field which is so important for the completion of the internal market and the competitiveness of the european union. it is clear that the commission's proposal will lead to a reduction, and a considerable reduction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. planning takes time and resources. the commission has already made some suggestions for better partnerships with the private sector, for a greater share from the member states, for greater involvement of the european investment bank. i am surprised that you are not preparing for this.
member of the commission. it should be an open debate and that was always the idea. it should be a debate in which both sides, pro- and anti-, should be heard. it was done through the whole constitutional debate process and it was organised in a broad consultative manner. that is the intention for the future.
member of the commission. on 1 may 2005 the commission launched a new network of europe direct information relays. implanted locally all over the enlarged european union, 393 new relays have taken over from former info-points europe and rural information and promotion carrefours which targeted the public in urban and rural areas respectively. the objectives of the new network have been streamlined in order to better meet the information needs of the public. as regards the financial mechanisms put in place to support the network, they need to comply with the ec financial regulation. the new relays were therefore selected on the basis of a call for proposals, following the decision from the commission, c/2004/2869. each europe direct information relay benefits from an operating grant of a maximum of eur 24 000 while the maximum grant for former ipes and carrefours was eur 20 000. furthermore, digicom is planning to launch a complementary call for proposals at the beginning of 2007 in order to open new relays in geographical areas insufficiently covered by the current network and taking into account future enlargement to romania and bulgaria. concerning the assessment of the impact of the networks, an internal assessment of the former information relays in 2003 revealed the real value of the relays as partners in the communication policy, especially at the local and regional level. as for the new relays, starting from the second semester of 2006, an online monitoring system will be implemented in order to assess the activities of the information relays. finally, in the framework of the action plan on communicating europe published in july 2005, the commission intends to carry a feasibility study – action 6 of the action plan – to assess the desirability of progressively streamlining the commission’s various information sources. as stated in action 42 of the same action plan, an impact study on the communication of the relays’ activities is also scheduled to start at the end of 2006.
madam president, having heard your answer to the previous question, i would like to ask how proportionate the expenditure on this permanent information on the present of europe is to the expenditure on the d project you mentioned.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the european parliament, especially the rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf, and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development, for their work on risk and crisis management and the very useful resolution and report. i will, of course, study your position and the different proposals in the report carefully. my intention with the communication on risk and crisis management presented in march 2005 was to launch a comprehensive debate. i think that objective has been successfully achieved, in the council, in the european economic and social committee and now in the european parliament. your contribution will be essential for the progress of our work. i therefore take note of your position regarding the three options for new rural development measures to support risk and crisis management. i welcome your encouragement to continue the work on the subject. i note your particular interest in option 2, which concerns mutual funds. in the shorter term, i share your views concerning the fruit and vegetables sector and i have already said to the council that we are going to examine the subject of risk and crisis management in the context of the future reform of the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. as you have noticed, however, the subject of risk and crisis management is really very complex, notably because the purpose is to adapt to a changing international trade context in respect of wto rules. we therefore need to study this area further. as regards the analytical background, at the beginning of 2005 we launched a research project on risk and crisis management instruments for eu agriculture. the work is well advanced and we should have some intermediate results in the coming year. we are also preparing a study on the agricultural insurance systems in the various member states and the technical issue of insurance systems in agriculture. this was specifically requested by the european parliament. it is essential to describe and analyse what is done at member state level before eventually deciding whether we need to set up permanent european instruments for insurance possibilities. we will then have a good basis for discussion during the coming year, which will facilitate the detailed political debate that is essential before we agree on additional measures. i am quite sure that, after listening to your comments, i will be able to respond directly to some of the questions raised.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, it is well known that agricultural production is vulnerable to climatic conditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is also known that under the old cap there was a protectionism towards greek agriculture, much greater than under the present common agricultural policy and we are very much afraid that the next common agricultural policy will be even more unfavourable. we believe that the insurance system, however it works, will have its ups and downs. but we think that the european union's contribution to the financing is too small and i think we should be more generous in this respect. i would also like to mention that special attention should be paid to fruit and vegetables, which are sensitive products and which need more protection. we have also seen in these days, at this moment, the great increase in fuel which, in many agricultural productions, has a devastating increase in cost. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. we think it is very important that the whole system has a speed of intervention. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we need to put in place measures to manage risks and crises in agriculture. this need is not only to protect against natural hazards but also against degradation and the gradual abolition, through the revision of the cap and the wto agreements, of the mechanisms which, although not so satisfactorily, protected agricultural income. the report also calls for the protection of farmers from the introduction of new technologies, especially genetically modified organisms, which have unforeseen negative effects on the environment, public health and farm incomes, as the rapporteur has pointed out. however, the main thrust of all the scenarios proposed is that they will not be a burden on the community budget and that the funds required will be obtained by withholding the funds for diversification. they consider that private insurance companies are a key mechanism for implementing the proposed measures. it is known, however, that even in these cases some companies do not insure certain categories of losses as being unprofitable. the report also accepts the commission's proposals for incentives, which are mainly concerned with reinsurance, which should be provided free of charge or at reduced rates by national bodies or by the introduction of a subsidy for reinsurers, in order to ensure the profitability of companies. i will not agree that natural and commercial disasters, especially for small and mediumsized farmers, should be the object of the profitability of insurance capital. at the same time, it is acceptable not to pay compensation for losses less than 30% of the average of the previous three years. in other words, the following injustice is being promoted: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by natural disasters and trade crises, and that the small and mediumsized farmers suffer losses of at least 30%, while the insurance fund is guaranteed a return on investment. although we believe that measures are necessary to cover the total loss of agricultural income caused by various natural disasters and trade crises, we cannot agree with these proposals, which place additional burdens on small and mediumsized farmers and, in our opinion, reduce their incomes instead of improving them.
mr president, first of all i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf, for his report, for the proposals he has put forward and for the acceptance of many of the proposals put forward by the political groups, but on the other hand i should also like to thank the commission itself, commissioner fischer boel, for the balanced communication in this area and for the alternative scenarios it presents, scenarios in which each member state, depending on the specific nature of the insurance systems and the specificity of agriculture, may find itself. but, mr fischer boel, i would say to you that there should be much more pressure on the council to pursue an integrated policy in this field at the next ministerial councils and that the council of agriculture ministers should not be limited to a sectoral approach to policy management, as for example in the fruit and vegetable sector, because in the fruit and vegetable sector the money for the insurance policy will be from within the sector itself and will have no connection with co-financing or financing by the fluctuation mechanism. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. on the other hand, we have the budgetary framework which is being put on the negotiating table between the european parliament, the council and the commission with the revision clause for the common agricultural policy as its collar. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the context of these objectives, crisis management policy, with the creation of a safety index for farmers' incomes, will thus be one of the main priorities of the european union by 2013, which should be identified and combined with our policy to strengthen the fluctuation mechanism. i would point out to those colleagues who are concerned about competitiveness that too many of our international trade competitors have applied the price security index even to the extent of loss of income due to changes in trade price policy, a policy which is covered by wto agreements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say, commissioner, that there is a combination of measures that should be taken: reinsurance, private insurance, but also state insurance. the system of management policy - and here i will disagree with the rapporteur - is not a matter of state aid, because it will be the greatest distortion that future agriculture will have.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted against the directive on services in the internal market - known as the 'bolkestein'. we condemn the shameful agreement reached between the epp and the social democrats, supported by the liberals, who voted in favour of the 'services liberalisation' directive, as requested by unice. the amendments proposed and voted for by the epp, the social democrats and the liberal group have reinforced the directive's reactionary character, as they: (a) extend the immunity of service monopolies to choose as their headquarters countries with an 'attractive business environment' - tax exemptions, low service quality standards, cheap and unqualified labour, no collective labour agreements, etc. - to maximise their profitability; (b) they deal a severe blow to public-social services (education, water, waste management, safeguarding of dangerous materials, postal services, cultural services, social welfare, etc.) which are privatized and come under the full control of monopolies; (c) they jeopardize the fundamental labour and social rights of the working class - collective labour agreements, insurance and pension rights, the sacred right to strike which the working class has won with hard class struggles; (d) hand over the market for services to monopoly capital, with disastrous consequences for small businesses and the self-employed, while leaving the quality and prices of services to the voracious appetites of capital for surplus profits.
in writing. the commission, the council and the political groups supporting eu policy are challenging the people by presenting themselves as champions of 'freedom of the press and respect for religious beliefs'. in fact, they are trying to hide the political responsibilities and goals served by the publication of the cartoons of muhammad and the publicity they received in european bourgeois newspapers. this is not a random event. the re-publication is linked to the elections in palestine, the sharpening of imperialist aggression in iran, syria and the wider region. those who care about "freedom of the press" deliberately ignore the fact that in the cartoons muhammad and the islamic world are identified with terrorism, so as to prepare public opinion to accept new wars and imperialist interventions against countries with muslim populations. it has rightly provoked a strong reaction and mass protests by the peoples who have paid and are paying with rivers of blood for the imperialist interventions and wars by the usa and the eu. the real opposition is between imperialism and the people, the exploiter and the exploited who, regardless of religion, colour and gender, must unite in the struggle to overthrow the imperialist system as a whole.
in writing. the eu is partly responsible for the breakup of yugoslavia, the nato wars, the plight of its peoples. after the dayton agreement, the people of bosnia and herzegovina lived under a nato occupation, which in the last year has been replaced by 7,000 euro-army troops. nato decided which political parties would function, the nato commander stopped the elected president of the country. in 11 years, unemployment has reached 40%, while 50% live below the poverty line, 50% have no medical care, 18% have no electricity. over 600,000 refugees, mostly of serbian origin, have not returned to their homes. corruption, organized crime, the black market are rampant. this "democracy" was brought by the imperialists. they turned the balkan countries into protectorates, which are now preparing to join the eu. the resolution of the political groups supporting the imperialist policy of the eu is a crude blackmail to the peoples of the country to accept imperialist-dictated constitutional changes, to comply "to the instructions" ahead of the october parliamentary elections, with the threat of cutting off the crumbs of the association-stabilization agreement under negotiation. the kke believes that the peoples of the balkans must immediately fight, together with the peoples of the eu, to have the occupying troops leave.
in writing. the sixth unacceptable and provocative resolution in a year and a half is part of the eu's frantic efforts to overthrow the popularly elected government of lukashenko in belarus, which refuses to submit to imperialist barbarism. it hypocritically portrays as a suppression of democratic rights the efforts of the belarusian government to limit foreign imperialist intervention to overthrow it through massive funding of political actors and the media. the eu is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those held in custody, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. - what ? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the european parliament, he said, was concerned that the eu was not able to take action on the issue of the right to vote and stand for election, and that the eu was not prepared to take action on the issue of the right to vote and stand for election. "so the thief shouts to frighten the householder! the european union is also calling on the council to take action to ensure that the european union's policies are not distorted by the threat of a nuclear war.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the multiple financial crises, the increase in the number of poor countries and the multiplication of their debts prove that the international monetary fund is a major instrument for promoting imperialist interests. it is an international organization in the service of capital, which uses it to impose its choices on the peoples whose countries need loans, using only exchange stability and balanced growth as a pretext. the international monetary fund is extortionating countries that need its loans by imposing unfair conditions on all public policies, cutting public spending, especially on education, health, social protection and any other area that affects the balance of budgets. the policy of strict fiscal discipline and the unacceptable social conditions imposed on the countries which resort to it are designed to protect the creditors and to secure their capital, privileges and profits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but it's not the outrage that leads to his strategy review. on the contrary, the international monetary fund will become even more aggressive towards the interests of the working people after a revision which will adapt its organisation, administration and action as well as its areas of direct or indirect intervention to the new circumstances resulting from the overthrow of the socialist regimes and the new balances between the imperialist centres and the new aims of imperialism, which lead to even greater exploitation of the workers and the resources of wealth, with the umbrella of the united nations in particular. the european union, that is to say, european capital, is seeking to participate in a common and coordinated way in the international monetary fund in order to increase its share of influence and profitability and not to change its policy, since it is promoting a similar policy, through capitalist restructuring and the lisbon strategy, by commodifying basic people's needs. the proposed administrative changes are nothing but fabrications, trying to hide the truth. only the struggles of the peoples against imperialism and its instruments, against the choices of capital, can bring about changes on the basis of equal relations and mutual benefit for development that ensures the people's welfare.
mr president, i believe that our discussion today is fully confirmed by the recent publication in the los angeles times of the report of the five experts of the un commission on human rights. we must no longer remain passive spectators to this modern barbarity. we must no longer remain silent about the continuing violations of international humanitarian law and international treaties, the torture and human humiliation that the us authorities continue to inflict on the guantanamo prisoners. the european union and its member states must, i believe, take immediate action to bring the matter before the international organizations and the un and to demand from the united states the immediate closure of the prison at guantanamo, a fair trial by an independent international tribunal or the immediate release of the prisoners. i believe, mr president, that if we continue to remain silent, it will be a cover-up. in the name of fighting international terrorism, the bush administration cannot lead humanity into a new middle age. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism.
the european union is taking all the necessary measures to combat poultry disease, and rightly so. but the poultry disease has caused a very big panic amongst consumers, resulting in a dramatic reduction in poultry meat consumption by 80% and a reduction in egg consumption by 45%. all this has put the poultry sector in a very difficult situation, where the european union is not taking the appropriate measures to help the industry. we must not allow that to happen. i ask that appropriate measures be taken to help the poultry farmers. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not distorted by the noise pollution of the air, and that the european union's policy on the environment is not distorted by the noise pollution of the air. so i ask that we show our solidarity with the industry.
mr president, it is provocative that the czech government is trying to outlaw the communist youth league of the czech republic because it promotes the concept of class struggle and marxism-leninism, provoking the indignation of thousands of democratic people in europe and the world. i have sent you and the chairmen of the political groups a memorandum and signatures of protest. such an attitude is unacceptable, given that the bohemian-moravian communist party is a party with great political activity, influence and recognition among the czech people and is represented in the european parliament by six members. indeed, how would we feel if the youth of the party, where we come from, were asked about legitimacy? such actions are part of the anti-communist campaign and are contrary to the vast majority of the people. i call on us to condemn it, thereby expressing our defence of democratic rights, freedom of political action and ideological expression, and to demand that the czech government and authorities immediately put an end to the ideological and political persecution of the czech communist youth.
mr president, the extermination, the brutal murder of former yugoslav president slobodan milosevic in the prisons of the international criminal court in the hague, orchestrated by the imperialists of the united states and the european union, who are responsible for the war and the disintegration of yugoslavia, is another link in the long chain of their crimes against the peoples who resisted imperialist barbarity. the instigators and executors of the kidnapping, imprisonment and trial of slobodan milosevic in the hague, after refusing to take measures to protect his life despite his serious health problems, led him to extermination. the us and the european union set up the hague show trial to exonerate themselves of their crimes against the yugoslav people that they bombed for 78 days in 1999, only because yugoslavia, while accepting the whole rubaje agreement, refused to accept the deployment of nato occupation forces on its territory. the imperialist military interventions and occupation in iraq and afghanistan, which followed the bombing of the people of yugoslavia, have once again revealed the ugly face of american and european imperialism, their heinous crimes against peoples and humanity. the peoples will continue to fight against imperialism for their own way of development.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. and, obviously, in this problem, there is no distinction between forced and "voluntary" prostitution, because both these forms have the same root: they are caused by extreme poverty, social exclusion, phenomena that drive women to the edge of exploitation. but also from a legal point of view, when the victim is in front of the courts, how will the distinction be made between forced prostitution and prostitution and the imposition of sanctions on the promoter? it is absolutely essential to make it clear that sporting events should be enshrined in the consciousness of all of us as a road map of values and cultures. every single thing that tarnishes this cultural encounter should be removed. mr frattini, i think that your proposals, which you are now referring to, and those of mrs prets, set a serious framework at european and international level.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. in an age when gender equality, free thought and human rights are at the centre of our thinking, i find it a challenge that the open borders of a free and democratic european union enable and provide immunity for organised crime in the form of forced prostitution of women and children. the numbers, in the wake of the german world cup, are beyond the realm of reality. it is beyond imagination that forty, fifty, a hundred thousand women and children from all over the world will flood the european country in common action, women and children who, because of poverty and the inability of world public opinion to face the problem, are led to the altar of market love: prostitution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this phenomenon. it is not enough to prevent serious health-threatening diseases from the uncontrolled market of love by settling for the free distribution of thousands, or millions, of condoms as seen at major sporting events. it is our duty not to justify by our silence the humiliation of the woman and child whose exploitative prostitution leads them and society to the abyss of self-interest. in conclusion, commissioner, i should like to mention that during your recent visit to athens you proposed that 25 march should be the international day against trafficking in women. i would ask you to move that date by one day since 25 march coincides with the national holiday in greece, one of the biggest holidays in our history. respect for women, but respect for national holidays. thank you in advance.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that would be illiberal and undemocratic. we in the european people's party at least know that a business must be competitive to survive. and individual member states should have a tax and more general economic environment that attracts investment in individual member states. however, it is not right for the european union to encourage the constant relocation of businesses with resources from the european budget. the hutchinson report therefore once again proposes that sanctions be imposed on undertakings which have received financial aid from the european union and relocate their activities within seven years of the date of granting the aid. it also proposes that undertakings which have received state aid, particularly those which have not fulfilled all the obligations arising from the aid, should not be able to receive state aid for their new place of business, but should also be excluded from future aid through the structural funds. the hutchinson report also points out that we should be even more strict with regard to companies moving outside the european union. i think that the european parliament's proposals are realistic and that they are a balanced response to an existing problem. i would also like to stress the proposal made in the hutchinson report in relation to the globalisation fund. we welcome the european commission's proposal and believe that the globalisation fund will soon be a reality to counter the negative consequences of this modern reality which offers opportunities for all but also involves risks that we must deal with effectively.
member of the commission. mr president, the debate has shown that we have many of the same views on the international water forum and i hope that the commission will benefit from participating in the debate where we do not expect, as i said before, that decisions will be taken, whether they are necessary or not. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in particular, we will have, i hope, the issue of local action, which is the focus of the fourth session of the international forum, and we expect that interesting ideas for water management will emerge. i would like to say that this year we have started financing the first projects and in june we will start the second stage of these financing. we hope and intend that 10 million people will have access to drinking water by 2010 and 5 million will have access to sanitation. i would like to thank you very much for the interest you have shown and i hope that together we can, in close cooperation, promote joint efforts on this matter of such importance to mankind.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and also the rapporteur, mr papadimoulis, for the really excellent report we are discussing today. the commission proposal to establish a financial instrument for rapid response and preparedness in the event of serious emergencies aims to provide a single framework for the financing of civil protection operations. these preparedness and response actions are currently covered by various financial instruments such as the action programme or the community civil protection mechanism. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of european union delegations to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular to the countries of the former soviet union, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of the former soviet union, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of the former soviet union, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of the former soviet union, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of the former soviet union, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of the former soviet union, to the countries of eastern europe, to the countries of the former soviet union, to the countries of eastern europe, to the former soviet union, to the former soviet union, to the former soviet union. it provides a basis for further developing cooperation in the field of civil protection by strengthening the work already done and by launching new actions. two innovations should be highlighted here: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in many cases we have encountered situations where aid was available but there was no means of transporting it to the disaster site. the result was that aid was either not provided at all or was provided late. the commission has therefore proposed that the european commission be given the possibility of hiring the necessary means of transport, either from third countries or from private companies. a similar problem exists with civil protection equipment: in the event of emergencies affecting several european countries at the same time, such as forest fires in summer or floods in spring, or even simultaneous threats of terrorist action across europe, member states may find it difficult to provide assistance to other member states because of the need to address their own needs. in such cases the community must be able to provide assistance to the member states concerned. the commission therefore proposes to set up a community-wide safety net financing facility to enable additional equipment to be hired. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission is confident that the european parliament understands, and this is shown by the report under discussion today, how important the benefits of these reforms are. enhanced cooperation in the field of civil protection will result in better protection of citizens of the european union as well as of the populations of third countries. the community's response to the crisis in the gulf has been to provide aid to the countries most affected by the crisis, to help them to cope with the crisis and to help them to cope with the crisis.
the rapporteur. mr president, i agree with mr de maas that we need to do more to make the european union's response to the increasingly severe natural disasters, both those that hit europe itself - such as floods, droughts, fires - and other natural disasters outside our borders, such as the tsunami or the hurricane in mississippi and louisiana, more effective and stronger. so the question is, can we do more and better together? because if we do, we will meet the demand of european citizens for improvements in their safety and quality of life, but we can also achieve economies of scale, because a more efficient european mechanism can lead to cost savings for each member state individually. i would like to point out that the challenge we face is to establish an effective civil protection mechanism. the council must also agree to this, in addition to what demosthenes rightly said two and a half thousand years ago. the council must increase the resources available. the commission, and the council, agree that we must be able to find support for natural disaster response outside the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. and if we invest more and better, with foresight, in strengthening our own cooperation now, we can avoid great human losses and painful material disasters which will cost the union budget much more to deal with tomorrow. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups for the excellent cooperation we had within the committee on the environment, which led to my report and some amendments to the commission's original proposal being adopted almost unanimously - by 49 votes to one. the amendments which i have tabled, which were adopted by the committee on the environment and which are included in the report, focus, ladies and gentlemen, on four main points: the first is to change the legal basis, which will allow the european parliament to put things in a more appropriate context and, above all, to move beyond a purely advisory role and to become involved in the co-decision process, so that the institution which is closest to the european citizens will then be able to exert greater influence on decision-making. the second change is the inclusion of prevention in the scope of the instrument. and it goes without saying that integrated management of situations arising from natural disasters must include, in addition to preparedness and immediate response measures, investment in prevention. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and i am glad that the commission and the council are meeting on this subject. the commission has also taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the european union, which is to be submitted to the european parliament and to the council. the fourth change proposed is to include public health in the scope of the measure, which is particularly important at a time when the risk of a pandemic of avian influenza is high. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say that tomorrow's vote, with the same consensus as that which we had in the committee on the environment, will send a clear message to the european citizens and to the council, as we have done in the past with a series of resolutions on natural and man-made disasters. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on it.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one. this is what gives rise to the digital divide between member states, the digital divide between regions and, most importantly, the digital divide even between people with a small age difference. i will focus on two areas which i consider to be crucial to achieving the i2010 objectives. the first point is the institutional framework. the second point is the financial aspect. firstly, the i2010 strategy we are discussing today identifies the need and plans to revise the existing institutional framework in the light of the new data of digital convergence. this is a major challenge as the new institutional framework must: (a) be flexible to adapt to rapid technological developments and market needs without restricting innovative ideas; (b) protect the development and production of content and ensure unhindered access to information for all citizens. some of these are conflicting parameters, but the common denominator must be found to solve the problems at the bottlenecks and allow europe to compete and to lead. secondly, the new strategy sets ambitious targets. however, when it comes to funding for ict research and innovation, even with the 80% increase in funding proposed by the new strategy, europe is lagging behind. to be fair, i'd say it's way behind its competitors. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, objectives without the means to achieve them are not objectives.
mr president, the words are fine, but let us get down to business. to come and say all that is heard here in this hall in your constituency in thessaloniki or in macedonia or in naoussa which is a dead city: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat it. that's the truth. ikea opened in athens and two and a half thousand small shops and crafts closed. what restructuring? when the capital is poured in, you can see, of course, that the little one is drowning. it's a jungle now, it's an ocean where the big fish eat the little fish. carrefour comes in with 20,000 square feet and they're closing all the small shops in the entire district. so what are we gonna do there? what are we gonna do ? how can we help? this is the reality. we have a big problem. we have an extreme capitalism that invades the lives and buries the dreams of the weakest. nothing works today. we have about 20% unemployment in macedonia, which was once the construction site of the whole of europe. what are we gonna do there? how do we save this world from want and poverty? we're building a new army of newly arrived! and that's the problem. that's where you need to step in, that's where you need to help.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i have listened with interest to your debate and i think it is clear that it is based on a thorough preparation and that the consensus that has emerged is very strong. let me touch on some of the questions that have been asked either directly or indirectly. as regards informing and consulting workers, this is the second consultation of the social partners. as regards the respect of the right of workers to be informed and consulted in advance in the event of restructuring, several community directives lay down this obligation. these guidelines must be strictly observed. i would like to stress the crucial importance of social dialogue in the firm as a tool for anticipating and managing restructuring, and the communication therefore constitutes the second phase of the consultation of the european social partners on both company restructuring and european works councils. i hope that the social partners will start working intensively to put in place mechanisms for the application and monitoring of the restructuring reference principles they defined a year and a half ago and to use the possibilities of the european works councils as agents of change within companies. the commission considers that this is primarily their task. the legislative route cannot be entirely rejected, but at the present stage it seems more appropriate and beneficial to leave the social partners to act. as regards possible community aid to undertakings relocating, i would point out that the current framework provides for the suspension of structural fund aid if the operation in question changes substantially, for example if it has been relocated within five years of the decision and allocation of funds. i would also point out that for the next programming period 2007 to 2013, the commission proposes to increase this guarantee to 7 years, to provide that in the event of infringement of this rule, the aid received must be reimbursed and to provide for the condition that an undertaking which has once failed to comply with this condition is excluded from receiving aid in the future. the commission recently adopted a proposal for a regulation establishing a globalisation adjustment fund. it will be up to you to discuss it with the council and decide whether to approve it. the commission is fully open to discussing the terms of the fund and i have noted some ideas which i consider to be important. one of them is undoubtedly significant, namely that in such a restructuring the company itself must necessarily be included, that a strategy of outsourcing costs only to the public sector cannot be supported. i would also like to emphasise the immediate and short-term nature of the assistance provided by this fund, in contrast to the more structured activity of the structural funds, in particular the european social fund. this means that the fund is explicitly and consistently designed to complement existing instruments and to complement them where these instruments are not effective. the social fund, as i have said, and the other structural funds, in contrast to the short-term management of a particular emergency, allow for longer-term action aimed at adapting the region of departure and the work process to economic and social change. this is the priority set for the structural funds' competitiveness and employment objective for the period 2007-13. ladies and gentlemen, the unifying idea of this discussion was undoubtedly that restructuring is an opportunity, but that failed restructuring can bring unacceptable human costs. this opportunity is given by the essential structure of our society and the essential structure of the whole of modern development, i.e. the search for ever more efficient and technically perfect solutions in the economic and social spheres. ladies and gentlemen, it is an essential part of the european treaty that our efforts are aimed at quality of life in the broadest sense. i think that the communication or the report that parliament is now presenting is an inspiring report and a step in that direction.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mrs lissy gröner and mrs amalia sartori, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the establishment of a european institute for gender equality (com (2005) 0081-c6-0083/2005-2005/0017 (cod)) (a6-0043/2006).
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i have listened with great interest to your debate and i would like to touch on some of the points that have been raised. first of all, i would like to commend the extraordinary quality of the rapporteur's report, a quality which can only be described as brilliant, once one realizes how complex the problem is. ladies and gentlemen, there have been some arguments and some positions in the debate which i think it is appropriate to take a position on. the first of the opinions that were expressed was that this institute should be part of the human rights agenda. many speakers in the debate have pointed out, and i fully share this view, that the issue of equal opportunities goes far beyond the question of human rights, however fundamental and substantial the question of human rights may be. the question of equal opportunities is a broader question. the second question was whether it was right for the european union to promote equal opportunities in its international relations. i must say, on this point too, that i am very convinced and firmly of the need for this. the european union is involved in numerous international contacts, both with its member states and in development aid and multilateral fora, each of which has the potential to effectively enhance equality of opportunity between men and women. ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that equality between men and women, promoted and supported on a global scale, is one of the essential sources of global stability and is capable of weakening many of the conflicts that are looming. i think the debate also made the right argument that the institute would provide greater clarity and greater political visibility to the issue of equality and equal opportunities. it's an argument i fully agree with. it is also right to recognize, and this has been mentioned many times in the debate, that there is still a lot of work ahead of us. it's also obvious, and it's one of the civilizational outcomes of modern european life, that we try to define politics on the basis of arguments. i could say policy based on factual evidence and factual opinions. in this respect too, the institute is able to provide new quality. i think it's clear that there's a lot of interesting data out there that's not being used effectively for policy making. for example, how many of you know that men in spain spend 52 million hours a year caring for dependent persons, while women spend 200 million hours? it is certainly an interesting illustration of the unequal distribution of some of the duties and some of the responsibilities that we have as human beings - men and women. and yet, these data have not entered into policy making. i'm sure the institute will make a lot of things possible. ladies and gentlemen, one of the good principles of european parliamentarism is multilingualism, and one often finds that one thing can be expressed more elegantly and directly in another european language. and so let me use a german expression which is "stillstand ist rückschritt". i am absolutely convinced that staying put is actually retreating. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to now comment on the amendments that are defined in the report or that are part of your next vote. the committee's opinion on the nature of the institute allows us to be flexible and to accept most changes that strengthen the institute's tasks and working methods, including the creation of a network for the institute. these modifications in their original form, in part or after recasting, are acceptable. the second category is composed of amendments which improve the clarity of the text and which the commission may also adopt in their original form or after slight revision. the third set consists of amendments concerning the legal presentation technique, which, although constructive, depart from similar provisions of the existing regulations and therefore cannot be adopted for reasons of consistency. finally, there are changes relating to horizontal issues, i.e. all agencies and institutions, the procedure for selecting the director, the renewal of his contract, the procedure for evaluating the institute. these amendments cannot be accepted as a certain consistency principle must be maintained in relation to all agencies. i have reserved the question of the composition of the board of directors for the final part. we are very pleased that the committee on women's rights has spoken in favour of a limited number of members of the management board and that it has followed the european parliament's resolution of last december on the operational framework for future regulatory agencies. this proposal can therefore be followed, even though the number of commission representatives is not the same as that of the council. the balance between the two institutions and between the two levels of interest represented by the national and community levels can continue to be ensured if, in accordance with the proposal, in a very limited number of cases of adoption of the budget and the work programme for which the commission is responsible, the vote of its representative would have the same weight as the votes of all the council representatives taken together. we therefore accept amendments nos 66, 82 and 85 concerning the composition of the management board and the voting rules. in the same spirit, we can agree to reduce the number of members of the advisory board to only 25 representatives of the member states, as set out in amendments nos 67 and 83, and consider it sufficient that interested parties can only attend the meetings of the management board without the right to vote. we hope that the council will be able to accept your proposal for a management board which, together with a rotation system, allows for the rotation of representatives from all member states on the management board over a period of three terms. i would like to conclude by mentioning our efforts to accept as many of your proposals as possible. the commission can therefore accept proposals 2 to 10, 13,15,17,18,20,24,25,26,28,29,35,36,38 to 42,44,45,48,53,55,59 to 69,74,76 to 85. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 1,11,12,14,16,19,21 to 23,27,30 to 34,37,43,46,47,49 to 52,54,56 to 58,70 to 73 and in part 75. we should also take account of the council's deliberations, and every effort should be made to find a way of reaching an acceptable compromise by the end of the year. the commission is counting on the support of the european parliament in setting up this european institute, which has been missing so far, and it is important that this institute should be operational in 2007 in order to advance and raise the profile of gender equality policy. of course, ladies and gentlemen, i'll be sending you my views on the various proposals in writing. (applause) thank you very much.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
i would like to stress, mr president, that i am absolutely convinced of the need to guarantee the human rights of men and women, but i am not sure that this text guarantees those rights or the subsidiarity of the member states in the matters to which it relates.
in writing. the facts show that the poor and the ordinary are the first victims of the often criminal lack of adequate protection against natural disasters. the great floods of new orleans killed thousands of people when they could, because they knew, take preventative measures. in contrast, in cuba, with the universal prevention and protection of the state, there were no victims. in this sense, preventive measures and measures to protect health and the environment are needed, which are the responsibility of the public authorities alone and not of the ngos, and which naturally require adequate resources. the commission proposal ignores the issue of prevention, because then it would have to address the socioeconomic causes that cause or worsen the consequences and allocate the necessary funds, which remain insufficient. it is a strange thing, however, that in emergency situations and in the need for community solidarity in the face of natural, industrial or technological disasters, solidarity is also included in the face of terrorist acts. the most odious article of the european constitution on solidarity in the event of terrorist acts is thus thrown out of the window. because it is known that the definition of terrorism is a rubber band, which eu capital adapts on a case-by-case basis and with the main beneficiary being the mass popular movement and its struggle against the anti-people, repressive policy of the eu and governments.
mr president, i am one of those who support with institutional and political consistency a multilateral, balanced and free world trade system. i am referring to a system based on even stricter rules, on stronger institutions, on more transparent and democratic procedures. the increase in imports of leather footwear by up to 500% in 2005 - mr baron crespo put this figure at 900% - is not only a product of liberalisation. and that must be understood. it is the product of unfair practices in violation of international trade rules by china and vietnam, two emerging economies. as other colleagues have said, yesterday we had the loss of thousands of jobs and the disappearance of hundreds of production units in the european textile industry, today in the news. the european union must send a clear message, commissioner. you implied it. and in this message, we are all connected. we're with you. yes to competition, not to its overt or covert distortion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take action against the united states. in order to be effective, the duties should be in proportion to the level of dumping. i would like to ask those who argue for a better price against the imposition of customs duties: have consumers benefited from the reduction in import prices after liberalisation? i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the commission must organise its institutional offensive. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation is a step in the right direction. otherwise, the accumulation of experience of violations of international trade rules, with subsequent action by the union, may jeopardise the confidence of european citizens in the fundamental principle of the liberalisation of the world trade system.
mr president, mr minister, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. the european arrest warrant is not in itself a sufficient instrument for the creation of the european area of security, freedom and justice. nor will we achieve its proper implementation unless we substantially strengthen mutual trust between judges, unless we apply minimum common rules in criminal proceedings that guarantee the fundamental rights of suspects and unless we achieve a basic approximation of national laws. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the draft directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we also hope that the future human rights office will play a substantial role in the protection and respect of human rights and individual freedoms and in the field of the european arrest warrant.
the two pillars of european cooperation in criminal matters are the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and the harmonization of the laws of the member states. but these two principles complement each other. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the european union has a long history of supporting the fight against terrorism, and it is not surprising that the european union has been able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. the european arrest warrant is an important first step towards the principle of mutual recognition of criminal judgments and contributes to the establishment of a common legal culture. of course, despite progress in the process of adapting the european arrest warrant, there are still some difficulties that persist, including the uniform or non-transposition of the framework decision into the national law of the member states and the categories of offences for which no review of the merits is carried out. these difficulties must be given special attention. i would also like to ask the president-in-office of the council, the austrian minister, mrs gastinger, why there is a list of 32 offences and why we are not simplifying the whole procedure by saying that all offences punishable by imprisonment for more than three years are covered by this regulation? this would greatly facilitate both national legislation and national judges. i am sure that with the dignity which distinguishes you, madam minister, you will deal with this matter.
the president of the council. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament! i would like to emphasize once again in my final remarks that, in general, despite the criticisms which have been quite rightly voiced here, we can assume that the european arrest warrant is something we can all be proud of. it was a first very important step towards the practical joint fight against organised crime and terrorism in europe, based on the principle of mutual recognition. this is something very important and we must keep it in mind. i have been asked on several occasions by various members of parliament about the minimum procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings. i see this as a very important point. i have been asked to do so by mr watson, mrs buitenweg, mr catania, mr lambrinidis, mrs ludford and also by mrs kaufmann. as you are no doubt aware, we gave a very wide margin for discussion to this subject during our informal council meeting in vienna on 13 and 14 january 2006. you are also aware that this framework decision - and i am not afraid to say so - is currently in a kind of dead end, which we all in the council very much regret. i can assure you that we in the council have the political will to introduce these minimum procedural guarantees for those accused in criminal proceedings in one form or another. this is a very important political signal that we want to send. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. and as you can imagine, it's pretty hard to avoid that. if we look at this in detail, there are doubts, particularly as regards the scope and similar points we are discussing. but i can assure you from the point of view of the austrian presidency that this is a matter of high priority for us and that we really want to make progress here during our presidency. but we must also bear in mind that we must achieve added value to the convention on human rights, particularly with regard to the minimum procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings, particularly article 6 of the crc, because this article 6 of the crc is our common basis in europe, to which we all feel jointly committed. we will therefore try to find a solution during our presidency so that we can actually take a crucial step forward. the most important thing for us is to be able to move out of the impasse in which we are at the moment. mrs roure raised another important question, namely how far we are on the other instruments. the main issues were the european evidence procedure and the exchange of information between judicial authorities. i can tell you that we are making very substantial progress in the council on the european evidence procedure. of course, as has been discussed here again and again, these 32 list crimes are also a point of discussion. i shall deal with that question later. this is also a point of discussion, but i am hopeful that we can make a big step forward during our presidency. maybe we can close this file. if that is not possible, we shall certainly be able to hand over to the finnish presidency a very advanced dossier. as regards the framework decision on the implementation and content of the exchange of information from criminal records between member states and the framework decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, we are discussing this at working group level and we believe that we can make further progress here as well. mr varvitsiotis asked why we did not base the sentence on a three-year prison sentence instead of the 32 counts of fraud. i should like to say that, as you are no doubt aware, these 32 offences were the subject of long and very intensive discussions in the council before they were agreed. it was a very difficult process, and we're glad we have it today. we must not forget one thing about these 32 offences: with this list it has been established that these are the areas where we do not, in practice, examine the principle of mutual criminality in particular. that's the background to these 32 list crimes. in other areas, extradition and the application of the european arrest warrant are still possible. the only thing that is being examined here is the question of mutual criminality, in order to actually implement the european arrest warrant. these 32 offences are - as i have already said - again in the discussion in the european evidence order, because we know, of course, that some of these offences are very broadly formulated and some of them again relate to very narrow facts. we are aware that this is not really coherent from today's point of view. we are glad to have them, and we will of course continue to work on this list on the basis of the experience we have gained with the european arrest warrant. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to make a few remarks after this interesting debate. firstly, i would remind you that the monitoring of the implementation of the european arrest warrant will continue and parliament has our assessments on all the member states, including italy since january with an additional report. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i would like to say to mr watson that unfortunately the commission is not in a position to initiate infringement proceedings under community law, as this is a third pillar instrument. i am particularly pleased to hear what some members have said about the possibility, which i would of course agree with, of transferring to the first pillar such an important instrument in the fight against terrorism and crime; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we will continue to highlight the strengths and also the weaknesses of each transposition law. we will do so by keeping in constant contact, mr coelho, with the national parliaments, because we must of course be aware of the problems which exist, sometimes for constitutional reasons, sometimes for parliamentary reasons, and which have made it difficult in some states to implement the procedure fully. i think this is in keeping with the principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions. i would like to conclude by saying that this european action programme will have to be supplemented by the european mandate for the collection of evidence. i've said it before, but i'll say it again: it seems strange to me that we have been able to reach an agreement to transfer people from one country to another, while we are unable to transfer evidence which is a much less relevant element in terms of the invasion of fundamental rights, mutual trust. there is enough trust to hand over an arrested person and we still can't agree to collect evidence from one country to another. i agree with minister gastinger's assessment that we really need to make a step forward and i hope that we will reach an agreement with the austrian presidency on which there are still only a few points of disagreement. the same applies to procedural rights, i have to say that the austrian presidency is putting a lot of energy into trying to reach an agreement and in my view the legal basis does not seem to be an obstacle. there are legal arguments, but all legal arguments are open to discussion. i am convinced that there is a basis for agreement on a european initiative on procedural rights; this would be a very important political signal. i know that the presidency is committed, and equally important is the commitment to the exchange of information on criminal records. at the same time, the repressive approach must be balanced constantly with a strengthening of rights and freedoms, which will give us more political leverage to combat crime.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on behalf of the council, i would like to say the following on mr ryan's question about the opposition in ethiopia: the council is following very closely the situation of jailed opposition leaders, representatives of civil society organisations, newspaper editors and journalists. the european union has also expressed its concern at the detention of the two women and called for the release of all political prisoners. the eu also called for the immediate release of all those arrested who have not been charged in a proper, minimum standard of proceedings. it also called for all prisoners to have the right to receive visits from their relatives and from the international red cross and/or other appropriate representatives of the international community. a joint statement by the ambassadors of the european union and the united states of america in addis ababa on 6 november 2005 contained a similar request. since the arrests in early november 2005, representatives of the european union have regularly raised the case of these detainees with the ethiopian government and also directly with prime minister meles zenawi in the framework of the political dialogue with ethiopia under article 8 of the cotonou agreement. the european union's diplomatic representatives in addis ababa agreed to raise respect for human rights and the rule of law as a core element of the political dialogue with ethiopia, together with the demand to release all prisoners arrested after the political demonstrations of june and november and to guarantee access to them for their relatives and lawyers and humanitarian organisations. i should like to take this opportunity to say that i myself have discussed these issues in talks with lord triesman and with minister hilary benn, because we know - and i have mentioned this - that the various steps taken during the british presidency were of particular importance here, and i naturally attach great importance to continuity. the diplomatic representatives also agreed to press for the families of detainees to be informed of their whereabouts and for them to have access to legal counsel and to be treated with dignity. another priority to which we are particularly devoted is to ensure local and international monitoring of the trials of leading opposition figures and other persons. in this regard, it is intended that an observer, reporting to the eu representatives in addis ababa, will monitor the trial of opposition leader hailu shawel and others. the european union will continue to raise these issues with the ethiopian government and will follow the situation of the detainees with great attention.
president-in-office of the council. on the supplementary question, as the honourable member knows and as we all know, ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in the world. parts of the country, in particular in the south, suffer under great strain; there is a shortage of food and we have an obligation to help the population. we believe that development aid and development cooperation for the poor of the country should not be used as a means of pressure against the government and should not lead to punishment of the population. that is why the european union does not withhold development cooperation funds but now channels them differently. that is the point we should bear in mind. so we are reflecting on how we should proceed. we are reducing the part of our aid that goes to the government directly and trying to find ways and means of channelling those funds directly to the population, where it is needed. on 13 and 14 march, there will be a conference in paris in which the future of development aid for ethiopia will be discussed and new ways will be found to help the poor people of ethiopia directly, without channelling those funds directly to the government. as to the case that mr ryan mentioned, i have no specific information; i will certainly look into it and will let you know the result of our inquiries.
president-in-office of the council. i am sorry, but i did not understand the last part of your question. as i said, we are very much aware of the political and social circumstances in the country. i can assure you that we take them very much into account. i can also assure you that the conference that is now taking place has all the information relating to the political, social, economic and financial situation in ethiopia.
president-in-office of the council. there are a number of ways and means in which the council can and does act. we are very interested in – and want to support – the democratisation process in ethiopia. i should like to mention briefly some of the instruments that we are using, one of which is the question of parliamentary procedures. we looked into them and took them into consideration. we have conducted a number of studies and want to help the parliament to improve its parliamentary procedures in order to enhance the possibilities of the opposition parties and to raise those procedures to international standards. in that connection, we are also trying to design programmes and projects to educate parliamentarians. we are helping with logistical support for the expansion and construction of a parliamentary infrastructure. the parliament, as far as i know, has no facilities for the opposition parties. they have no technical means of communication, so we are trying, together with the undp, to design projects which would be helpful in that respect. we are also helping the parliamentarians – in particular those from opposition parties – to travel to other parliaments to gain experience: to the parliaments of, for example, india, the united kingdom and the united states. as you will know, the party landscape in ethiopia is still very young, very underdeveloped, and we are trying to introduce those inexperienced parliamentarians to more traditional parliaments so that they can learn from them. we are helping to reform the national election board, a very interesting initiative in my view. our ambassadors in ethiopia are working on that to ensure that the national election board corresponds to international standards.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council agrees - as reflected in the council conclusions of 7 november 2005 - that it is important to support political reforms in iran, to promote human rights and democracy. it is clear that the european union wishes iran to develop into a society in which human rights, civil and political rights are fully respected, in which democratic values and freedom of expression can flourish, and in which there is no discrimination but equal treatment and equal opportunities. but we also know that achieving this goal will require sustained and long-term effort and patience. the council has sought in the past and will continue to seek to promote political reforms through support to various bodies and organisations in iran, including iranian civil society. to this end, the european union's comprehensive political dialogue has been re-launched and we are also very keen to see a meaningful, constructive dialogue on human rights. the european union is currently looking at the best way to support political reform and democracy in iran. these considerations relate to the strengthening of the role of the media and democratic forces.
the president of the council. madam president, we are aware that we cannot do everything at once, as much as we would like to. but we believe that dialogue is still the only alternative we have, because breaking off dialogue and, so to speak, "punishing civil society" is certainly not an option. it is certainly disappointing that the human rights dialogue has not taken place since june 2004. the general affairs council of november last year therefore called on iran to take steps to resume substantive talks in the framework of the dialogue. i can tell you, madam president, that in recent weeks iran has shown a great deal of interest in resuming this dialogue. the european union, however, makes this dependent on certain conditions, because dialogue for the sake of dialogue is not appropriate. if we can establish the framework conditions that allow for meaningful dialogue, that also allow for support for civil society, we will be happy to resume this dialogue. we hope that under the austrian presidency it will be possible to resume this hopefully meaningful and useful dialogue.
president-in-office of the council. i can assure the honourable member that not only will i consider bringing it to the attention of the council, i will bring it to the attention of the council.
president-in-office of the council. i thank the honourable member for the encouragement. we are trying to carry on a dialogue that is meaningful and not respond in a way that would shut the door on the possibility for dialogue. i can assure you that we will continue in this way.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say the following about the question put by mr panagiotis beglitis: the european union's unequivocal position on all israeli activities in violation of international law in the palestinian territories, including east jerusalem, remains unchanged and is expressed repeatedly, regularly, emphatically and clearly in the permanent political contacts between the european union and israel at all levels. in pursuing this policy, the european union is making use of the eu-israel association agreement, which provides for such contacts, and the eu-israel action plan, agreed in early 2005 as part of the european neighbourhood policy. that attitude has not changed. this has only been shown again on the last two occasions that have been available to discuss the middle east peace process and the situation in the middle east, namely at the last general affairs council and at the informal meeting of foreign ministers, the so-called gymnich meeting in salzburg last weekend. the european union and all the foreign ministers continue to follow this line of fairness and clear words also towards israel when it comes to exposing activities which we believe are in breach of international law.
mr president, i would like to thank the representative of the austrian presidency, but i would also like to express my regret at the bureaucratic way in which he has responded as a representative of the presidency to my question on a matter which is in fact a violation of the principles of international law and the un charter. i do not really understand, mr minister, the double language used by the european union towards the palestinians and israel. i see no declaration, no action taken to continue settlements in the occupied palestinian territories. i see no reaction from the european union to the statement by the israeli prime minister, mr. obed, that he will unilaterally define israel's borders by 2010.
president-in-office of the council. yes, i would agree that we should encourage and support all people-to-people contact and all infrastructural measures that promote such contacts. however, they have to be in line with recognised rules of international law. that is exactly the policy of the european union. we encourage those contacts and projects that are in line with international law, and we criticise when they are not in line with international law.
the president of the council. i can answer the question whether the european union should participate in enterprises. this is not a matter for the council per se. i can only repeat what i have already said, and i apologize if i repeat myself. the european union will of course only support projects which are in line with international law and which comply with the rules. there may be differences of opinion as to what exactly is and is not in accordance with international law. in any case, it is in line with the council's view that we are naturally only supporting projects which are in line with international law.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question concerns the protection of fundamental rights and the principle of mutual recognition, which we have already discussed. in this context, i would like to point out that the council has always stressed that it gives the utmost priority to respect for human rights and that we are also actively working towards the prevention and elimination of torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, taking into account in particular article 6 of the treaty on european union and the relevant eu guidelines. in addition, in its presidency conclusions on the tampere european council, which was already discussed here today, the council stated that the principle of mutual recognition should become the cornerstone of judicial cooperation and that mutual recognition and the necessary approximation of legislation would facilitate the protection of individual rights by the judiciary. in this connection, the commission stated in its communication of 26 july 2000 to the council and the european parliament entitled 'mutual recognition of final decisions in criminal matters' that it was necessary to ensure that the treatment of suspects and the protection of the rights of the defence were not only not adversely affected but actually improved by the application of this principle, namely that of mutual recognition. this was also confirmed in the programme of measures adopted by the council and the commission to implement the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal proceedings. on 28 april 2004, the commission adopted a proposal for a council framework decision on certain procedural rights in criminal proceedings within the european union, which it submitted to the council on 3 may 2005. we have already discussed this more or less in detail in the previous item on the agenda. this proposal, which is currently being examined by the relevant council bodies and which we are trying to take a substantial step forward under our presidency, aims to improve the rights of all suspects and accused persons by ensuring a uniform level of protection for them within the european union. the council also recalls that eu member states must respect their obligations under international law, and in particular under the european convention on human rights, to which we are all parties. this is also confirmed in article 6 of the eu treaty. the fact that the principle of mutual recognition is implemented in the context of a fully judicial procedure also means that legal protection is guaranteed by independent judicial authorities, which is a major advantage. in this context, it should also be borne in mind that legal instruments based on the principle of mutual recognition generally provide for a general human rights clause, which reaffirms that the obligation to respect fundamental rights and general principles of law under article 6 of the treaty on european union is not affected. finally, the proposal for a council regulation establishing a european union agency for fundamental rights, which was submitted by the commission in july 2005 and is currently being examined by the relevant council bodies, is another step towards an effective european union human rights policy.
the president of the council. of course i did. that is one of the reasons why we regret that the european constitutional treaty has not yet become legally binding, because one of the great advantages i see in the european constitutional treaty is that it would have included precisely that charter of fundamental rights. it is precisely these minimum procedural guarantees, which we have discussed at great length in the past, that we would no longer have to discuss in our treaties if there were a single legal basis. i see a very big advantage here. that is why it is important that the debate be continued in one way or another. i am also hopeful that we will come to a solution here one day.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the national state of emergency declared by the president of the philippines on 24 february this year was lifted, as you know, a week later, on friday 3 march. the eu presidency, which had previously coordinated with the local heads of mission in manila, and the eu troika, which was in manila from 28 february to 4 march to attend the meeting of the intersessional support group of the asean regional forum on confidence building and preventive diplomacy, expressed the european union's concern over the latest developments orally at meetings held at the philippine ministry of foreign affairs on 1 march. they also called for the full respect of the rule of law, due process and human rights and for the early lifting of the state of emergency, which was lifted on 3 march, as i said.
mr president, mr minister, thank you for the information. i must tell you, however, that we may have the state of emergency lifted, but five opposition mps have been arrested and are now in prison. i would therefore like to ask you what you will do to secure the immediate release of the arrested members of parliament and the trade unionists who remain in prison.
the president of the council. i can assure the honourable member that in these cases, as in all other cases of flagrant violations of human rights, the european union will, in particular in relation to representatives of the people, work constantly, regularly and on all occasions to ensure that the relevant human rights rules and standards are respected. this happens - as has been rightly said - not always in public, because it does not always lead to the desired results. sometimes, silent diplomacy is better, but it happens, and it happens regularly. very often it is through the local representatives of the european union. the commission has also been informed of the progress of the negotiations. this is done in discussions with senior officials of the countries concerned. and i can assure you once again that we will of course continue to look at the cases you have mentioned and deal with them.
the president of the council. as regards the question by mrs schierhuber on improving access to justice for consumers in europe, i would point out that the council is currently pursuing the projects envisaged by the hague programme 2004 and the accompanying 2005 action plan in the field of judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters. this includes the creation of new procedures to make it easier and faster for eu citizens to obtain a judicial decision in crossborder disputes. in concrete terms, these are two regulations: the introduction of the european reminder procedure and the introduction of a european small claims procedure. in both procedures, since they are regulations, the european parliament is also very much involved in the codecision procedure. both regulations create new procedural possibilities which will also strengthen consumer protection throughout the union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies. the two new procedures will therefore complement the instruments already adopted in the field of judicial cooperation - i am referring here only to the facilitated taking of evidence in court - or the minimum standards for legal aid, thus further expanding the possibilities of legal protection within the european union. the regulation on the european order for payment procedure will allow eu citizens to obtain a european order for payment by means of a court application for payment orders which may not be contested by the debtor. if the debtor does not object, the payment order shall have legal force and be enforceable. the creditor may then subsequently enforce this title under more favourable conditions in the member states. following the positive opinion of the european parliament in december 2005, the council of justice ministers was already able to reach a political agreement on this regulation on the european order for payment at our last council on 21 february 2006. after revision of the regulation by the linguistic experts, the regulation is to be adopted by the council at first reading in april 2006 as an a-point. we expect the regulation to enter into force in two years' time. the introduction of a european small claims procedure - the second essential point here - is intended to facilitate and accelerate the crossborder enforcement of small claims. the trivial procedure is basically designed as a written procedure in which claims up to eur 2 000 are settled by a court. in order to achieve the acceleration sought, time limits will also be laid down for the various stages of the procedure, which will have to be observed not only by the courts but also by the parties to the proceedings. the court of first instance shall also determine, in each case, the extent and means of taking evidence at its discretion. the evidence may also be taken by means of modern communication technologies, such as videoconferencing or similar, provided that this is of course also permitted by the procedural law of the member states concerned. we intend to continue the work on the regulation on the european small claims procedure during our presidency and hope to be able to complete it to a large extent.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in general, there is a great deal of information available to our citizens in europe. the european commission's atlas of the courts, which is available on the internet to every man and woman, is particularly useful in this respect, because it makes it very easy to find jurisdictions and similar information throughout europe. that is a very important aspect. we are of course keen to provide our citizens with as much information as possible, particularly on access to justice. that is why it is important to pass on the information quickly. we believe that this will require very good, very rapid and very efficient cooperation within the institutions which are involved in this matter. this is a very important aspect. i think it is very necessary that we in the member states do a lot of work in terms of information by the courts, so that the necessary information can be brought from the courts to the citizens. this is a very important aspect. a good legal system in europe can only work if citizens know where to turn.
the president of the council. in general, i am sure you are right, mr president. the e-commerce sector will play a very important role in europe in the future. there are already regulatory instruments in place, where consumer protection is already regulated, particularly in the area of e-commerce, because we know that there can be many cases of abuse. i also know that some e-commerce providers already have quality labels and stuff, which is a kind of access. i expect that we will be dealing with these instruments here in the future, not primarily in the justice and home affairs council but rather in the competition council.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. you have raised a very sensitive point here, which is of course one of the main points of discussion, particularly in the regulation on the european small claims procedure. the european small claims procedure does not in itself provide for the obligation to retain a lawyer, which naturally raises a key question in the matter of costs, especially in the case of legal fees, which are regulated differently in our member states. in general, we have already sought legal instruments, particularly in the context of legal aid. this is already being done. we will certainly have to think of instruments for the other area. i see in the council working group meetings that this is a point which is being discussed by my experts and for which we will certainly be able to work out a solution in the context of the european small claims procedure.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are back to a very sensitive area. there was a proposal for a european commission framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia, which was presented on 29 november 2001. despite intensive discussions in the council, no agreement on this proposal was reached in february 2003. as a consequence, in march 2003 the italian delegation submitted an alternative version of the draft framework decision. however, this version was not approved by the delegations. on 24 february 2005, the council then instructed the group on criminal matters to continue its discussions on the draft framework decision. accordingly, the group resumed work on the draft on the basis of the state of play in 2003. the discussion on this framework decision at the council meeting of 2 and 3 june 2005 showed that there was no scope for consensus among member states. this was, of course, bitter, especially for those member states which strongly supported this framework decision. the austrian presidency does not see any prospect of resuming negotiations at this stage, given the background to this framework decision which i have just described to you. the presidency does not want to see this very important dossier and, above all, the political message behind it, come to a complete standstill. we will therefore, in coordination with the european commission and the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, organise a seminar on this subject during our presidency. we are expecting about 100 participants for this seminar. this seminar will take place in vienna from 20 to 22 june 2006 and will discuss selected issues related to this proposal. as you can imagine - and we saw this in the recent debate on cartoons - we are again in the middle of a conflict between our political message, which clearly says that we are against racism and xenophobia, and freedom of expression. it is precisely this tension that must be resolved if we are to take an important step forward. these are the very points which will be discussed during the seminar. the participation in this seminar is planned to be attended by two representatives from each of the member states, the acceding and candidate countries. we would also like to invite, in particular, ngos familiar with the subject, as well as representatives of the council of europe, the osce office for democratic institutions and human rights, the network of independent experts on fundamental rights, and the european commission against racism and intolerance. of course, representatives of the european parliament will also be invited to participate. you will receive an official invitation to this seminar at the end of march. the programme will be finalized by then, so that we can present it then. in addition, i would like to point out - as i did in the context of question 4 on the protection of fundamental rights - that the european council decided in december 2003 to establish a european agency for fundamental rights, which it confirmed in december 2004. the ad hoc council working party on fundamental rights and citizenship is currently examining the proposal for a regulation submitted by the european commission in june 2005. the agency is scheduled to start work on 1 january 2007. we know that this is a very tight timetable, but we hope to be able to keep it. the austrian presidency attaches the utmost importance to this issue and hopes to be able to conclude the negotiations in order to ensure a timely start of the agency's work.
the president of the council. i can only support you in this statement. the presidency is of course keen to send an important political signal here. we hope that this seminar, which we are going to hold, will help us to put the matter back on the table and, through the expert opinions - and above all the opinions of many experts - to reach a conclusion which will enable us in future to strike the necessary balance between our common aspirations: on the one hand, to combat racism and xenophobia very effectively, but on the other hand, not to jeopardize freedom of expression. we want to take a very substantial step forward and hope that under the finnish presidency we will be able to conclude this dossier with a new start or at least to continue negotiations on the basis of our work.
mr president, madam minister, racism and xenophobia have even reached sports and football. and you are clearly well aware that we have had many incidents against coloured athletes and footballers in many competitions and many matches - football matches mainly - in england, spain, france, etc. the austrian presidency intends to recommend to germany that measures be taken against racism and xenophobia during the world cup next summer. and how will you deal with these, since you will still be in office?
vice-president of the commission. as to changes if these countries join the euro, you all know the situation and that the criteria adopted in the maastricht treaty are very strict. i can only discuss this issue as an economist. as a citizen of one of these countries, of course i support enlargement of the euro area, and countries with proper financial policies will definitely strengthen the euro area. it would also mean enlargement for the euro and its influence in the world. these countries have a stable budget policy so they will increase the credibility of the euro.
member of the commission. the question concerns simplification and a more user-friendly space for educational mobility and programmes connected with youth, culture and citizenship. as you know, the proposal on education and the new generation of programmes in the field of lifelong learning, youth and culture were adopted in 2004 for the period 2007-2013. we are preparing for this, the programmes are still not fully adopted, but they will replace existing programmes and will also contribute to clearer and simpler conditions for users. the new programmes, once fully established, will enable individuals to benefit more from a true common european area of mobility. hopefully, appropriate funding will be available. these programmes will allow institutions in the fields of education, training and culture to improve the way they operate together. in this context, the simplification of administrative and financial procedures is a key issue. successive evaluations and large-scale public consultation exercises have demonstrated that the current programmes would indeed benefit from simplification. that, however, requires efforts at different stages, at the level of the administrative arrangements for the programmes themselves and at the level of the financial regulation and its implementing rules. at programme level, it is proposed to reduce the number of programmes in the area of education and training by putting erasmus, leonardo da vinci, comenius and grundtvig under the same umbrella: an integrated lifelong learning programme. the design of the new programmes – especially in the youth, culture and citizenship area – is intended to simplify access for the potential beneficiaries. for example, in the new culture 2007 programme we have created a more open and accessible programme in terms of its very structure, with three main objectives compared to the former eight. it is thus easier to grasp its essence, specifically because it takes a non-sectoral approach, where any player can feel welcome, and is explicitly aimed at the diversity of beneficiaries. furthermore, the commission aims to simplify the application and the reporting systems involved and, of course, to accelerate the selection procedure. we have included provisions to that effect in the draft decision. during the ongoing codecision procedure for adoption of the programme decisions, both parliament and the council have supported the commission’s aim to achieve maximum simplification, not only in the form of the programme actions but also in their administrative and financial requirements, and to find the right balance between flexibility and ease of use on the one hand and clarity of purpose and appropriate financial and procedural safeguards on the other hand. as regards the financial regulation, the commission has proposed a series of amendments which are currently under examination by parliament. these amendments will, inter alia, introduce the principle of proportionality, which means that the administrative and accounting requirements should be proportional to the size of the grant. as to the implementing rules, progress has already been made because in july 2005 the commission amended the detailed rules for the implementation of financial regulation no 1, which led, among others, to the following improvements in terms of simplified procedures. firstly, the requirement for external audit in support of payments is now obligatory only for intermediate payments or payments for the balance where the grant exceeds eur 750 000 for actions and eur 100 000 for operating grants. the second amendment is that the limit on flat-rate amounts has been increased from eur 5000 to eur 10 000. in addition, several flat-rate amounts are now possible in one grant and the commission can authorise the use of flat-rate amounts even if they are not specified in the basic act.
i am very grateful to the commissioner for his full and detailed reply. i am very pleased with the simplification measures you have presented. but perhaps we should also include simplification in the financing of these programmes? there are fears among the public that these programmes will not be funded as generously as in the past. do these fears hold true?
member of the commission. we are in regular contact with the romanian authorities, and as a response to the honourable member i would say that the romanian authorities are on track concerning the solution of pending petitions for adoption, filed before entry into force of the new law on 1 january 2005. the romanian authorities have established a working party which should finalise its work on 31 march, and the commission is committed to a close follow-up on this issue. we will report to the council and parliament on this issue in our comprehensive monitoring report which will be adopted, as scheduled, on 16 may. concerning the other elements of your question, the 82 000 children currently under social protection, residential care, foster care or placement in enlarged families are benefiting from a child protection structure in line with the un convention on the rights of the child, and this is also the case for access to health care and education.
member of the commission. i have partly responded to this question, so i will cover only those parts which have not yet been covered. first of all, in addition to a general evaluation of child protection and the situation of the disabled and mental healthcare system in romania, we have organised a peer review on mental health in order to assess the situation on the ground. the expert report resulting from this peer review is awaited. we are conducting a total of 15 expert reviews, or peer reviews, both in bulgaria and romania, on a number of critical issues, and this is one of the essential areas in which we are conducting this peer review, which is done by both commission officials and the best member state experts in this field. concerning care for disabled people, the main focus is now on developing an inclusive strategy that aims at closing and restructuring large residential institutions by developing alternative community-based services, support for families and smaller residential units. we provide, for instance, up to eur 15 million. moreover, a public awareness campaign is ongoing in romania in order to raise awareness on rights of people with disabilities. although reform in this sector is still very much in its early stage, from the point of view of the commission we estimate that the country is now on the right track in this regard. finally, the persistent problem of ill treatment in psychiatric hospitals in romania needs to be addressed immediately. this was stressed in our comprehensive monitoring report of october, and the significant deficits in living and care conditions in some establishments need to be tackled. we have strongly advised the romanian authorities to make mental health a priority area and devote sufficient resources for this purpose. the romanian authorities are strongly encouraged to take advantage of the current phare assistance and draft a strategy and action plan for the mental health reform. of course, the key is implementation. the feasibility of the practical arrangements made should be demonstrated, for instance through allocating sufficient financial resources. this is what the peer review will look at and this will be part of the progress report in may 2006.
member of the commission. i am ready to provide further details of the peer review if needed. they normally carry out both previously agreed and on-the-spot missions with visits to different kinds of establishments in different fields, ranging from the rule of law – i.e. the court system and prosecutors’ offices – to the field of childcare and mental health. they carry out the same kind of actions. how long does it take in this field? that is a very relative concept. our concern is that there has to be a credible track record which shows that romania is genuinely on the right track. this will be the focus of our peer review. you touched on the crux of this whole issue: childcare must be at the centre of our evaluation and this is what we are aiming to do when we conduct and present the results of the peer review. in this context we have also studied the suspicion about the use of caged beds in romania. i can assure you that during the commission’s 15 years of follow-up we have never had any suspicion proven about the use of caged beds in romania. the commission will follow the issue up within the framework of our regular contacts with various non-governmental organisations.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner and say that we all agree that we must help romania to improve conditions and the protection of children and health care. i would like to ask the commissioner whether the commission can allocate more community resources in the context of twinning projects to improve the health situation, to protect children, to improve the situation in psychiatric hospitals. i would also like to ask him whether the european commission can work with the world health organisation and other international health organisations to improve the situation in romania.
member of the commission. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you very much, and especially the rapporteur, mrs bauer, for your report, and i am pleased to note that you and the commission are in full agreement that the lisbon strategy is based on the positive interaction between economic, employment and social policy. i appreciate the support your report gives to the commission's initiative to streamline and modernise the open method of coordination in the areas of social protection and social inclusion. this is about how to make a greater contribution to the lisbon strategy's objectives through social protection policies and how to strengthen the coordination of these policies. making a greater contribution through the lisbon strategy's social coordination process means developing an active social protection function and demonstrating added value through growth and job creation. in practical terms, the new common objectives of the open method of coordination as well as the thematic sub-objectives just adopted by the council will be translated into national strategies. the new national administrations will first present each member state's strategic approach to modernising its policy in the areas concerned. the three thematic plans will then be presented to the member states: social inclusion, pensions and healthcare. the commission also adopted a communication launching a public consultation on possible targeted measures at union level concerning the adjustment of the minimum income and the integration of people excluded from the labour market. the consultation naturally covers the european parliament and other institutions, but in the light of the subject under discussion it also extends to public authorities at all levels, as well as organisations, civil society and the social partners. your report also mentions the possibility of a new interinstitutional agreement to ensure parliament's role in implementing the open method of coordination. it is true that parliament's participation in the work of open coordination remains limited by the absence of an overall legal framework. i can only assure members that i will encourage my staff to make greater efforts to engage in dialogue with parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, the european commission's first joint report on social protection and social inclusion is an old text, written in january 2005, which needs to be considered in the light of the conclusions of the presidency of the european council and the interim report on the lisbon strategy. the bauer report is a synthetic text and i congratulate the author for that. it is methodically structured and presents all aspects of the urgent need to keep the drastic reduction of poverty and social exclusion as a central objective of the lisbon strategy by 2010. the two rounds of the open method of coordination on social inclusion at level 15 and, since 2004, at level 25 of the member states have shown that the streamlining of the open method of coordination on social protection and social inclusion should be ensured. economic growth and employment growth are certainly the means by which a higher level of social cohesion will be achieved, together with effective education and training systems. in this context, the bauer report recalls that measures should be taken to prevent early school leaving and to facilitate the transition, particularly of low-skilled graduates, to school and the labour market. investment in education and lifelong learning is mentioned in particular because of a stagnation in participation and private initiative is therefore invited to participate. it is a powerful tool to combat poverty and social exclusion. attention must also be paid to the eradication of child poverty and for this reason the author of the report, mrs bauer, rightly stresses that the intergenerational heredity of poverty must be tackled by speeding up the commission's work on a pact for the child, aimed at promoting the rights of the child.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and add that, despite all the measures taken by the european union, fish stocks are still under threat, and this is due to three very important factors: the first is the intensive fishing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in january the committee on fisheries adopted a report on the promotion of environmentally friendly fishing methods, proposing a number of technical measures, such as the establishment of fishing areas, fishing periods and fishing gear. the sustainable exploitation of the seas is a common desire and a common aspiration, and we must all work towards that. in this endeavour, i would also like to stress a few things: first, the measures to be implemented must be based on adequate scientific evidence, taking into account the specificities of each region. secondly, fisheries organizations must be able to participate in the whole process, and have a say and a right to co-decide. in this way, fishermen, by being aware of the importance and necessity of the measures, will contribute to their more effective implementation. thirdly, more environmentally friendly fishing methods imply less and more selective fishing, new equipment and lost revenue. it is therefore important to provide adequate funding to support these efforts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not affected by the current crisis. the european union must find ways of ensuring that measures to protect the seas are applied not only by the member states but also by third countries. in conclusion, i would like to stress that it is a sacred duty for the whole world to leave clean seas with fish for future generations.
we'll take that into account, mrs ludford.
thank you very much. we'll look into it. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
in writing. the european arrest warrant is another link in the chain of measures to complete the institutional framework for shielding the power of capital, within the framework of the eu's 'area of security and justice'. it allows the extradition of nationals of member states, effectively abolishes the principle of double jeopardy and the possibility for the political leadership to decide on the extradition of a person, thus overturning basic principles and guarantees of protection of individual rights, which were enshrined in the previous extradition law. it limits national sovereignty by calling into question the right of each member state to exercise criminal jurisdiction over its own citizens, while at the same time infringing on basic constitutionally guaranteed individual rights and guarantees. the report calls for even more reactionary amendments to the e.e.o. by proposing to extend the abolition of the double jeopardy clause, to abolish any possibility for political power to intervene in the extradition of persons for reasons of national policy and expediency, and to abolish any judicial review of the e.e.o.'s compatibility with fundamental rights. the european parliament is once again using 'terrorism and organised crime' as the necessary pretext to establish more firmly another instrument of restricting rights and freedoms to be used against the people, the struggles, all those who struggle and challenge imperialism and the exploitative capitalist system.
in writing. the separation between legal and forced prostitution is artificial. it is also hypocritical to denounce forced prostitution, because it stabilizes and expands legal prostitution. legal or forced prostitution, what is sold is the human body-commodity, on which all the rules of the market will operate. the legislative framework governing the health standards to be met by registered prostitutes in effect indirectly recognizes prostitution as a profession and manages the problem. so in the face of this explosion of social phenomenon, prostitution is legitimized as a profession, that is, it disconnects it from the social causes that produce and reproduce prostitution (unemployment, poverty, misery, lack of social benefits). in other words, the rottenness of the exploitative system is concealed and exonerated, its responsibility is renounced and the problem is reduced to the individual sphere. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to combat fraud and corruption. prostitution, when it is classified as a profession, is put on the list of career guidance as an alternative to unemployment which so brutally affects young women. at the same time it legitimizes investment in the prostitution industry, establishes a pornographic culture, and promotes prostitution of young women. we say no to all forms of prostitution.
in writing. water is freely provided in nature, it belongs to everyone and all people should have access to it. it cannot be a commodity for capital profits, because access to water is a fundamental right, closely linked to health, environmental protection, development and quality of life. water resources must be managed exclusively by the public sector to provide a universal supply of good quality water at an affordable price. the fourth world water forum in mexico will be under the auspices of the world bank and its class politics. that is, the privatization of water systems, which means the deprivation of drinking water for the poorest layers of the population, and new profits for capital. the eu is promoting the political liberalisation of services in the framework of lisbon. it has agreed with the other imperialist centres in the wto negotiations on services (gats). the logic of profitability, disregarding basic human needs, includes the privatization and destruction of forest areas and mountain masses that are important water reservoirs. the kke meps express our opposition to the fourth world forum, because in the interests of profit, basic human needs are ignored. we call on the working class and the popular strata to fight to thwart the barbaric plans of their exploiters.
in writing. the joint resolution signed and promoted jointly in the european parliament by the pp, the social democrats and the liberals on the lisbon strategy aims to further accelerate capitalist restructuring through the preparation of national programmes. the attack of european capital is intensifying and embracing all the key links, with the invasion of capital and the commodification of health, education, energy, the dismantling of labour relations, the eradication of any conquests of the working class with the new attack on its insurance and pension rights. the lisbon strategy is also based on the maastricht treaty and the four freedoms (capital, goods, workers and services) which were voted on jointly by the new democracy, pasok and the united national party in our country. the kke has warned the working class and the people in good time of the objectives of the lisbon strategy. it calls on the working class to intensify its struggle against the barbaric attack of capital, to give its struggle anti-monopoly, anti-imperialist characteristics, to build its alliance for popular power and prosperity.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to thank the european parliament, the chairman of the foreign affairs committee, for the detailed report on the 2005 strategy paper presented by the commission. the council is constantly discussing this subject, also in the light of the very concrete decisions we have to take. we have, as has been reported, had a very good and very thorough debate on this subject in gymnich and we will continue to have this debate. this is a very important point for me, because refusal to discuss creates mistrust among the population, and we must make sure that we rebuild the confidence of european citizens in the european project as a whole, that we create more confidence and more clarity. this is one of my main concerns as president of the council, and in this sense i welcome the debate which is now taking place. citizens' support for the enlargement process means that we need to improve the information we provide, that we need to improve public relations, that we need to explain the steps better. we are going to be thorough, we are going to be cautious, we are not going to rush things, but we are not going to hit the brakes at random. this is a matter of great concern to me. the receptivity of god is not an arbitrary, additional obstacle introduced here, but an awareness, a becoming aware, an awareness of very central and self-evident basic facts. every step of enlargement, every new accession, needs two partners - the european union on the one hand, the acceding country on the other. we want to prepare the next steps as best we can. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can also rely on the expertise we have acquired in the last enlargement and we should be determined to use this existing transformation expertise in partnership. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. they will be fair and strictly enforced, point by point, and the european commission's report of november 2005 made this unequivocally clear. but we should also be honest in this debate about the expectations of the european union and the expectations of our own people. we owe each other clarity, and only we can give it to each other. we can't write bad checks. i also call for a differentiated approach to each country, because we must be a fair partner to each country and its citizens. we must create that certainty. the presidency will therefore pay particular attention to the contributions made by the european parliament in the further debate. let me outline in a few words the specific decisions we are currently working on. firstly, the issue of romania and bulgaria, where there are encouraging reports and the objective is clear: accession on 1 january 2007, with a possible postponement of one year. turkey and croatia: start of accession negotiations, the formal launch was on 3 october last year. we are now in the process of acquis screening, the review of the legal base. we as the presidency have written to croatia and turkey, inviting them to explain their negotiating position on the first chapter 'research and development'. we share the view of the european parliament that continuous progress is needed in meeting all political and economic criteria and in effectively implementing fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy. in the case of turkey, we as the presidency welcomed the closure of the case against mr pamuk and made it clear at the recent troika meeting in vienna that we expect the pending cases under article 301 of the turkish penal code to be treated accordingly or to be changed at all. we are closely monitoring the implementation of the ankara protocol and will ensure that this review takes place in the relevant bodies this year, on the basis of the council statement of 21 september 2005. the adoption of the accession partnership with croatia is also of great importance to us. we have welcomed the commitment of the croatian prime minister to ensure full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and its continuation. we share the view of the european parliament that croatia is making a stronger contribution to regional cooperation and that additional efforts are still needed. i have said all i need to say about the western balkans. the council's strategy for full cooperation between serbia and montenegro and the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia is also clear. we have sent a very clear signal here at our last meeting. we support the work of the united nations special envoy, martti ahtisaari, in kosovo, and i believe that the european union has made an extremely positive diplomatic contribution, with the contribution of the special envoy, javier solana, in reaching agreement here on the conditions for the referendum on 21 may. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, as he is still here, let me commend mr brok for his important report. as he rightly said, enlargement is indeed one of the eu’s most powerful policy tools to pursue peace and prosperity, liberty and democracy. the eastern enlargement of 2004 sealed the peaceful reunification between western and eastern europe. now our energy is focused on a peaceful unification in south-east europe. our gradual and carefully managed accession process is based on three key principles. first, we have consolidated our enlargement agenda. it means that we must be cautious before taking any new commitments, but likewise we must stick to our prevailing commitments towards candidate or potential candidate countries already in the process. our consolidated enlargement agenda focuses on south-east europe: bulgaria and romania, and turkey and croatia and the other countries of the western balkans. secondly, we apply rigorous conditionality. combined with a credible accession perspective, conditionality works. it has helped to transform central and eastern europe into modern democracies. more recently, it has inspired bold and significant reforms in turkey and increasingly in the western balkans. this is also proven by some recent important events, as general ante gotovina is behind bars in the hague, while the novelist orhan pamuk is free to express his opinions. enlargement policy and neighbourhood policy complement each other. furthermore, the commission is ready to deepen further and upgrade cooperation with our neighbourhood partners once the main priorities in the current action plans have been properly addressed. at the same time, we should avoid the pitfalls of an overly theoretical debate on the final borders of europe. as we now have a consolidated enlargement agenda, a theoretical discussion, for example about whether ukraine should even join the european union, would benefit neither us nor the ukrainians, now that ukraine’s future path and democratic development is at stake. certainly, the pace of enlargement must take into consideration the eu’s absorption capacity. the commission has always had this view. enlargement is about sharing a project based on common principles, policies and institutions. the union must ensure that it can maintain its capacity to act and decide according to a fair balance within its institutions, respecting budgetary limits and implementing common policies that function well and achieve their goals. for over three decades, the eu has successfully absorbed a very diverse set of countries, as we can see from the composition of this house, for instance, including the president in the chair in charge of this debate and the commissioner involved. by developing its policies and institutions, the union has responded positively to new circumstances, such as the fall of dictatorships, the collapse of communism and the rise of economic globalisation. enlargement has proven to be a successful shock absorber for europe. thirdly, we need better communication. the report rightly calls for a communication strategy and, indeed, broad public support is essential for everything the union does, including enlargement. i rely on the political and financial support of parliament to pursue a well-informed debate on enlargement. to conclude, consolidation was necessary to avoid overstretching on our enlargement commitments. but let us also keep in mind our own strategic interest: it would be utterly irresponsible to disrupt a valuable process that is helping to build stable and effective partners in the most unstable parts of europe. if we were to go wobbly about the western balkans’ european perspective, our beneficial influence, our political leverage, our impact would be seriously eroded, just when the region enters a difficult period of talks on kosovo’s status. the eu perspective is the key to a sustainable settlement for kosovo and to democratic development in serbia and the rest of the region. it is the foundation that keeps the region on a peaceful and reformist track. therefore, for the sake of europe, let us not shake this foundation, ensuring that the still fragile balkans building does not collapse at our feet, in our own front yard! (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, mr brok, on his very important report and at the same time i would like to congratulate you, madam president-in-office of the council, on the interest and determination you have shown in the balkans both as foreign minister of austria and as president of the council. i would also like to congratulate the commissioner on the comprehensive and excellent communication which he has presented to us. i would like to make the following comments very quickly: firstly, the central point of the brok report, which is the importance of the european perspective for a number of countries, the majority of which are in the balkans, is correct. at the same time, paragraphs 5, 9 and 10 of the report, when read together, give the framework on which the european union now views the continuation of enlargement. as regards turkey, i want to say that i support turkey's european perspective, but i think that we should, as you very rightly said, concentrate first on the issue of the ankara protocol. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the draft protocol, and i would like to stress that the protocol itself must be ratified, not the unilateral declaration, and of course the question of modernising the legal framework within which the country will operate. as regards kosovo, i agree with the caution in the negotiations on the final status, but we must also prepare for how the decision on the final status of kosovo will be implemented. as far as the forum is concerned, it now has the status of a candidate country - that is correct - but, precisely because it has the status of a candidate country, it also has rights and obligations, one of which is to show a constructive spirit in the dialogue with greece in order to resolve the last outstanding issue, and that is the name issue. finally, as regards serbia, i agree with the need and the fact that serbia's cooperation with the hague tribunal is its obligation, but this is part of a set of criteria that serbia must meet and i would like to ask that we be careful not to 'croatify' the case of serbia as well. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report, and especially paragraph 10, with its deliberate vagueness, reflects a twofold strategy. it leaves the back door wide open to the prospect of integration being transformed into a formula for the special relationship: the great love of german christian democracy. the kosovo clause, with its vague wording, reflects the bilingualism within the union and the tendency to gradually disengage from the clear terms of un resolution 1244. the european union is not only a political group, but also a political body, and it is a political body, and it is a political body, and it is a political body, and it is a political body, and it is a political body. finally, my group supports, amongst other things, amendment no 19 on a mutually acceptable solution to the problem of the name of firum and the revised amendment no 4 on cyprus.
mr president, the first issue we have to discuss is where the frontiers of europe go. we don't know what europe is anymore: we have reached diyarbakir, and if tomorrow the americans tell us that iraq must be included in europe for the sake of balance, will we reach the indian ocean? that's the point. who decides who gets to go to europe? until yesterday we said no to croatia. the prosecutor, mrs. carla del ponte, said, "no", austria pushed, croatia is in. is this the political will of europe? and of course, to tell our turkish friends that they should not harass the president of parliament is not very elegant. it is not very elegant to take 139 million euros to the occupied territories and throw eggs and stones at meps. they need to change mindsets, not just one article in their constitution. they can't have that kind of care. they cannot threaten a european state with war, a casus belli, and we are talking about putting them in. they can't recognize a government that the other 24 have recognized. these are not logical edits. and i come to skopje which, of course, has a claim to a name. may i remind you that when you applied to join the un as the german republic of austria germany - the defeated germany then - vetoed and you entered as austria ? may i remind you that the british did not let great britain in because they had britain and they entered as the united kingdom? so why don't you support us when we have a 3000 year history with macedonia? why don't you just call it what it is? why do we not have an independent policy and have to watch the americans play? counter russia, take their satellites, open a front with iran and all that. when will europe finally - and this is the question - decide that it is not the american baby? we don't need child-care facilities to develop our own initiatives.
mr president, we must be very frank and admit that the enlargement strategy is not the cause of the institutional crisis in which the european union is now found. but enlargement as a strategic objective can be the scapegoat for collective european dead ends, and that, in my view, must be avoided. the message sent by the austrian presidency and the meeting of the foreign ministers in salzburg on the ultimate objective of the western balkan countries' accession to the european union are indeed of particular importance in this context. we say yes to the accession of countries and no to the privileged relationship. in this respect, the commission should speed up its proposal for the granting of visas to citizens of the balkan countries. the issue is deeply political and not bureaucratic. the european union is concerned about the bilingualism in kosovo. the absence of a common european union policy will have negative consequences. finally, with regard to the cyprus problem, madam minister, commissioner, i believe that the time has come to take political initiatives to create the necessary political and social cohesion at the level of civil society between the greek cypriots and the turkish cypriots. the catalyst role belongs to the european union.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am very grateful to all of you for having pointed out in your contributions the positive effects of the euromed partnership. of course, we can mention - as mrs madeira has just done - a great many subjects where we have an even greater deficit. we cannot therefore - and we will not - rest on our laurels, but we must commit ourselves to continue working in all these areas you have mentioned: health care, social dialogue, sustainability, gender issues, educational opportunities and many other issues. it's not going to happen overnight. it would be an illusion to think that only through this partnership alone we can bring about change in a short time. but we must work on it, and the instruments are there, as the commissioner said. the subject of human rights has been mentioned several times. it is not only important to me personally, but also to the council as a whole. i also do not think that the council or the european union as a whole can be accused of not having a coherent, methodical human rights policy. i think we have one. i believe that the human rights agency, which we hope will be established soon and with your help, will be able to contribute to the methodical treatment of human rights. mr president, i would also like to thank all those very committed parliamentarians like yourself and your subcommittee and mrs de keyser and others who are working constantly and with great commitment towards better understanding between the peoples in the euro-mediterranean partnership. we should be grateful to them and we should do our best to support you and help you, even if you do not fully agree with one or two council measures. iran was also mentioned in this context. i would just like to use this to say that it is of course the policy of the council to reach a conclusion here by peaceful means, by negotiation. mr carnero gonzález said something very important, namely that something happened at the november summit that would not have been possible a few years ago. if we look closely at this declaration against terrorism, this code of conduct against terrorism, we find that it also contains a good approach to the difficult, sensitive questions - and of course the fight against terrorism, with all the political problems we know, is such a difficult problem - an approach which makes it possible to continue in order to achieve further results, and we in the council want to do the same. i would like to thank all members for the good ideas and suggestions which we will of course be happy to take up and consider.
member of the commission. mr president, i entirely agree on the importance of the next euromed parliamentary assembly meeting. it is highly important and i can already confirm my personal presence. this time it is possible and i certainly will want to come. your motion for a resolution is an excellent one. all the important topics are there: freedom of expression and respect for religious beliefs, the outlook for a real partnership. that is what we want. that means that not only do we have to deliver, but our partners also have to deliver. together we have to find the right mix in order for them to develop more and more. there are some specific issues that we also have to highlight, one of which is very dear to my heart and is also in our communication: education. i have always felt that with education we can promote the next generation. we can do our utmost to make things happen. i also totally agree with mr carnero gonzález. i believe barcelona was a success. however, is not right to say that it was not a complete success because only heads of state were there. the content was good. now we have to see to it that it can all be implemented in our five-year programme. i am in favour of liberalisation, but i agree it must also take account of social cohesion and social stability, social rights, questions of energy, and of course education. let me quickly say that some studies that have been undertaken; the manchester study is rather negative, but there are others that are much more positive. as i said, what we wanted to create with the euromed partnership is exactly that: a partnership, which means both sides will have to do their utmost to get things moving and quite a lot of reforms are still necessary. what we would like to achieve, with more trade, is also the creation of more jobs – that means more jobs for more young people – as also, of course, trying to provide the right prospects for the labour market, and sustainable development that takes account of social and environmental imperatives. the neighbourhood policy is the policy that tries to complement this euromed partnership. while also focusing very clearly on human rights, it tries to promote all the other factors that will assure these countries a better life in the future. finally, unfortunately all of that is being overshadowed by the israeli/palestinian conflict, and unfortunately, this is not the best moment; we are at a very critical, crucial moment. hopefully we can make the future, even at this critical stage, a better one.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the subject which we are now dealing with at a relatively late hour is one which is also very close to my heart personally, which is why it was a matter of concern to me to be here for this debate. i am pleased to have the opportunity to have this discussion with you. as you know, last year a summit on the reform of the united nations was held in new york, and naturally the participants - heads of state and government - were asked whether they considered the summit a success or not. the austrian president expressed the view that this meeting had been a success. of course, as always in the multilateral arena, there are things that have been enforced and things that have not been enforced. but the bottom line is that the united nations summit in new york last year was a success. it was a success because it basically agreed on a number of things which were of great importance, first of all for us, the countries of the european union, and for the west as a whole. we all stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms. the decision in principle taken in new york last september to establish a human rights council to replace the commission on human rights was one such decision which justified a positive assessment of the summit. of course, last september it was only a decision in principle, and it was only after difficult and tough negotiations that the human rights council was able to come to life. i think we should be particularly grateful at this hour to the president of the united nations general assembly, jan eliasson, for his tireless work in bringing about a decision on the human rights council a few hours ago in new york. the result of this human rights council is clear. the result was 170 votes in favour, 4 against and 3 abstentions. the countries which voted against were the united states, israel, palau and the marshall islands. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. ladies and gentlemen, 170 votes in the united nations is a great achievement! we have come together as the european union in the united nations general assembly with a common position. we can be proud of that and we can congratulate ourselves and the international community on this success. the establishment of the human rights council is an important, i would say, almost historic step towards further strengthening the human rights system within the united nations and the protection of human rights worldwide. of course, there are a number of points on which we, the european union, have also been disappointed. we would have preferred one or the other to be different, but in multilateralism you have to make compromises and you have to be clear about whether what was ultimately possible is still in essence what you really wanted. as for the human rights council in its present form, the response was clearly positive. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this decision. i am glad that the council has managed to get all the member states on board here. i would like to focus not so much on the things that have not succeeded, but on some points which i believe are particularly positive in the new system of the human rights council. firstly, unlike the commission on human rights, which was an ecosoc body that met once a year for six weeks in geneva, the human rights council will be a permanent body and will be a direct organ of the general assembly. it was left open that the human rights council might one day become a principal organ of the united nations. this would, of course, require an amendment to the united nations charter. you all know how difficult this is, but the option is open. but at least it is now a permanent organ of the united nations general assembly. the direct and individual election of members with the requirement of an absolute majority among all the member states of the united nations is also progress. all those who, like me, have been involved in this process over the past few years will be glad to see that the often undignified process of a vote-sharing game - who votes for whom, if you vote for this, i vote for that - will hopefully now, if not be over, be substantially curtailed. with a two-thirds majority, there is now the possibility - and this is new - of suspending members of the human rights council for serious and systematic human rights violations. this is the point which, incidentally, ultimately determined the united states' disapproval of the human rights council. the united states has tried to the last to obtain admission by a two-thirds majority and the automatic exclusion of those members against whom the security council has imposed sanctions. the european union offered - and did - to make a statement at the time of the adoption by the general assembly, in which we commit ourselves politically not to vote in favour of the admission of any country to the human rights council which the security council has accused of human rights violations and against which it has imposed sanctions. this is also an important political signal from the european union. thirdly, there will be a regular review of all states in the field of human rights through the creation of a universal review procedure, which will also be able to dispel the accusation of double standards and selectivity in the future. fourthly, the human rights council has the competence to make direct recommendations to all organs of the united nations system, including the united nations security council. we believe that this has led to a substantial strengthening of the human rights system within the united nations as a whole. and fifthly, the important achievements of the commission on human rights, namely the system of special rapporteurs and the active participation of non-governmental organizations in its meetings, will be maintained. although not everything has been achieved, this new human rights council is a clear improvement on the sterile commission on human rights. the commission on human rights will now meet again - probably briefly - to settle the business and then hand it over to the human rights council. the first members of the human rights council will be elected in may of this year, and its first meeting is due to take place in june. we will work hard as the european union and as the council to ensure that the human rights council can do its work successfully and with decisiveness from the outset. the united states did not agree to this proposal, but i believe that in the last few days and weeks a certain degree of trust has been established in the atlantic relations between the european union and the united states, because the united states has stated on the occasion of the adoption that it does not wish to impede the constitution and financing of the human rights council, that it agrees in principle with the objectives of the human rights council, but that the two problems i have mentioned - the question of the election of members and the question of the expulsion of members - were too serious to be able to cast a positive vote. i hope that the work of the human rights council in the years to come will convince everyone that a good choice was made here, that progress has been made here, and that we have finally done something for the protection of human rights around the world. i think we as a european union can be proud to have contributed to this.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to say: eureka! we have a human rights council! that is extraordinary and i am very happy to be here tonight to celebrate it with the council and the european parliament. as you know, the european union and the european commission have contributed substantially to that result. last week, when the eu decided to support the draft resolution introduced by president eliasson, we made it possible for a number of countries to copy us. we had hoped that a number of our proposals would be in the resolution. however, i agree with the presidency that the compromise text represents a marked improvement on the commission on human rights, and that is key. let me say a few words about the commission on human rights. over the last few months there has been much criticism of that commission. typically, it is accused of doubled standards, of over-politicisation, or of being too tame sometimes in the face of flagrant human rights violations. no doubt there is some truth in those allegations, and it is not by chance that the un summit document has proposed the establishment of its replacement. but equally it is true that what could be done has been done. it was that commission, in 1948, that oversaw the drafting of the most important statement of human rights principles of all: the universal declaration of human rights. i wanted to mention that because now, of course, we are looking forward, but we should also have looked at the past. i should also like to draw parliament’s attention to one element of the human rights council: the universal periodic review. if implemented properly, it should help to address the issues of double standards and selectivity, which have plagued the commission on human rights. after all, we see peer review working very effectively in other fields, for instance in trade, the trade process review mechanism, or even in the conflict on diamonds and the kimberley process. remarkably, throughout the complex and lengthy negotiation process on the human rights council, the european union has been able to maintain a common position. there is no doubt that this has positively influenced the course of the negotiations. therefore, the commission was very relieved that, after the recent differences between member states on the final draft resolution, the european union was able once again to adopt a common position and thus demonstrate its commitment to the crucial part of the un reform process. the commission, like the member states, is concerned about the us vote against the text. however, on the other hand, we are also comforted by its declaration expressing the wish to work with the human rights council. kofi annan today said that his understanding was that the united states, even though they might not be able to vote for the council as it was currently proposed, would be able to work with the council, and i am sure that the us, which has done so much for human rights, will find a way to work with the other member states to make the council what it ought to be. so i think the omens, on the whole, are not bad. we have to pay tribute to the human rights commission, but now we want to see a new development and, hopefully, together, we can get it.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, today there is indeed a very positive development in the agreement reached in new york. this agreement, with a large majority of 170 countries, is a dynamic and progressive compromise to improve and strengthen the effectiveness of the international system for the defence of human rights. among the very serious reforms and changes that have been made, i would like to highlight the provision for the participation in the procedures of the new council of international non-governmental organizations and bodies active in the defence of human rights. and i believe that the commission and the commissioner will work with the ngos to strengthen the role of the council in its effectiveness. these clear reforms can give a new human rights dynamic to the council institution and reduce the un's lack of credibility and effectiveness. the european union can also work with the un and other countries in the council to strengthen the new institution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the abolition of the un human rights committee and the creation of a council with far fewer members is intended to exclude and be able to expel countries which are not subject to the united states of america, the european union and other imperialist powers. the council is being manipulated into becoming a body which will judge human rights violations unilaterally and in the interests of imperialist ambitions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the united states of america has done a great deal for human rights, commissioner. have murdered tens of millions of people! from hiroshima and nagasaki, vietnam, to iraq today. this is their contribution! in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of human rights. but no human rights council, no commission and no un is going to prevent the struggle of peoples against their enslavement.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr trakatelli, for his excellent work in preparing this report. but i would like to thank the members of both committees for the excellent work they have done in studying and examining this programme. i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment. i would also like to say at this stage that i could not, under different circumstances, disagree with the substance of what is being proposed. we may have different approaches to the separation of the two programmes, but the proposals enrich the programme's actions, broaden its scope and make it more effective so that it covers more areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the most serious issue at the moment is the conclusion of the discussions on the financial perspective. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the financial support for the programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. president barroso has already sent a letter to president borrell in which he points out that if the arrangement remains as it was in december, the health and consumer protection sector will not only not have enough funds but, moreover, the sector will have fewer financial resources in 2007 than it had in 2006. in other words, there will be less money for the europe of 25 and 27 than there was for the europe of 15. i believe that, as president barroso has pointed out in his letter, this approach cannot be justified, especially at a time when we want to bring europe closer to its citizens. the european parliament therefore calls on president borrell to make parliament make a further effort to cooperate in this area. the commission's proposal for the programme is also reflected in the budget. but if the substantial reduction i mentioned earlier were to take place, it would mean that many of the actions and many of the areas in the proposal would have to be abandoned, because it is not sensible to allocate small amounts to many areas in such a way that, in effect, no area is being effectively supported. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. i would like to express the hope that in the discussions that will follow this situation will be corrected and that it will be understood that this is probably a mistake and that, given the great political importance of both the health and consumer protection issues, at least some small amounts will be added to the programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that both committees would prefer to have a separate programme, i understand the arguments, i understand the concerns. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there can be a better use of resources. in any event, until the question of the financial perspective is settled, the commission is not in a position to decide definitively whether or not to accept the split. the commission will therefore reject the amendments which seek to separate the two programmes at this stage and when we have the final outcome of the debate on the financial perspective we will look at this again. parliament has made its position clear and we note that. i shall not go into further details because of lack of time. i had the pleasure of discussing the programme with the committee responsible. i would simply point out, because there is not enough time and there are many amendments, that the commission's position on each of the amendments will be published in writing and i would ask that this be entered in the minutes of this debate. i would like to stress, however, that the amendments that are rejected are not rejected because of a disagreement on the substance of what they stand for - and i would remind you that many of them are accepted - but those that are rejected are rejected mainly because of the need to have some priorities in the context of the economic data and, on the other hand, subsidiarity issues, that is, not to interfere with the responsibilities of the member states and, of course, not to overlap and not to repeat actions covered by other community policies and actions. in conclusion, i would like to thank you again, mr president, and i shall be following the debate with great interest from the members.
the rapporteur. mr president, the problem of avian influenza was - and i am sure you will agree - an opportunity for the union and the member states to act in a coordinated and effective manner, building up the confidence and sense of security of the citizens. but it also provided further evidence of the value of community action in the field of public health. i therefore consider the timing of the debate to be the most appropriate to support this recommendation, including the increased funding necessary to meet the objectives. the objectives, which, like the main lines of action, ensure the continuity and, at the same time, the development of the previous programme. this is achieved through a combination of objectives and actions such as protecting citizens from health threats, physical, chemical, biological, communicable diseases and others. we need a common defence system and a coordinated response at european level to a possible pandemic, as the avian influenza crisis demonstrates. promoting policies that lead to healthier lifestyles - determinants of health. we owe it to our children, to future generations, to work towards the adoption of standards of living that take seriously the determinants of health: proper dietary habits, non-smoking, socioeconomic conditions that do not subject to excessive stress. prevention of disease must be based primarily on addressing the determinants of health that are proven to affect health - physical and mental. contributing to the reduction of morbidity and mortality for major diseases and injuries is an additional area of action which also requires coordinated and joint action. improving the efficiency and effectiveness of health systems: we must look together at the health systems of the member states to ensure their compatibility so that they can perform better for the citizens of europe. improving information and knowledge for the development of health and for the integration of health policy objectives into other policies must be the concern of all, both health professionals and ordinary citizens. the best medical practice that not only is the most effective means of treating disease but also limits further loss to our health. it is obvious that the criterion for evaluating therapeutic actions cannot be the economic cost but the effectiveness which, in the long run, is also economically advantageous. the emphasis is also on actions such as the impact of the environment on health, and the collection of data on under-fertility, infertility and sterility, which are becoming a scourge for ageing european societies, already threatened by the demographic problem. data collection and the development of strategies for patient mobility, the further development of the electronic health card, mechanisms to promote organ transplants, the commission's cooperation with member states as well as with international organisations such as the world health organisation or the european centre for disease prevention and control are essential to exchange views and promote health actions. the member states are also invited to play an important role as a large part of the data will come from them. the coordination element of the programme, commissioner, is therefore essential and necessary for its success, and the open method of coordination can certainly contribute to subsidiarity issues by strengthening strategies in the field of health and health care such as patient mobility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i am sure that there is now a common ground in the need for coordinated action which combines joint action at european level with the ability and capacity of the member states to enhance their own effectiveness. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is better, and given the experience we have gained, i believe it will yield comparatively superior results. in this context, i believe that amendment no 64, which proposes an increased amount because the programme is now more complete and different from the one the commission has put forward, is necessary because without funding the best programmes are not going to achieve anything. i therefore urge you as rapporteur to vote in favour of amendment no 64 and i believe that by doing so you will send a message of determination to the council and a message of hope to the european citizens that we are really concerned about the health of the citizens of europe.
mr president, allow me to congratulate mr tracatelli on his willingness to cooperate. the community action programme on health is an important text as it aims to ensure effective prevention, improved health services and a better quality of life for all, which is our primary political objective. a key priority of the programme is to combat health inequalities by strengthening existing public health networks. as regards disabled people, we must bear in mind that disability is not a disease or a disability but a different state of health which must be taken into account in the formulation and implementation of all community policies and programmes. the development of strategies and the exchange of good practices aimed at promoting the health of persons with disabilities, as well as the provision of reliable information in accessible formats for persons with disabilities, which is one of the target groups of the programme, is of great importance. we must also ensure equal access to the relevant health systems. another key priority is to ensure the added value of community actions in relation to national health actions, in order to strengthen transnational cooperation in innovative areas such as telematic medicine. for persons with disabilities, these actions can open new pathways to enhanced quality of life, timely and appropriate access to health services, while at the same time contributing to the rationalisation of health expenditure.
in writing. i reject paragraph 3b (new) of the recital concerning the definition of healthy life expectancy, although i consider that the english version of the text uses the term 'disability free life expectancy indicator' unfairly, in my view, as opposed to the greek translation which does not present such a problem. i would like to stress that disability is not a disease or a disability but a different state of health which must be taken into account in the formulation and implementation of all community policies and programmes.
in writing. meps from the new democratic republic clarify that the second part of paragraph 43 of the report does not express our views on this issue.
in writing. the report, the council and commission decisions and the debate in the european parliament coincide with the 7th anniversary of the us-nato-eu dirty war against yugoslavia and the organised assassination of milosevic. the plans of the european and american imperialist rulers of the balkans, which were annexation and the creation of protectorate states, subservient to the eu and imperialism, are being provocatively revealed. the european union's capital is plundering their wealth-producing resources. the situation of the balkan peoples is already dramatic and will worsen with their accession to the eu. competition and the new round of border changes are creating new tensions. the kke, by reiterating its position against the eu and its enlargement, will help to strengthen the struggle of the peoples against european and american imperialism which has imposed occupation in the region. the european union is also calling on the government of the democratic republic of the congo to take all necessary measures to ensure that the situation in the country is brought under control and that the situation in the country is brought under control. the demagogic crowns and political adjustments of the other parties are trying to disorient the people and act as a washing-up of the enormous political responsibilities they have in their complicity with imperialism.
in writing. we agree with the majority of the findings, which confirm the degradation of the environment, the destruction of forest ecosystems and the continued loss of biodiversity. we also agree with many of the proposals, apart from those which are mentioned in the context of existing legality, because in many states, as in the eu member states, they are becoming legal. for example, community regulations have liberalised the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in agricultural production and food production, which threaten the environment and biodiversity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the forests are protected and that the forests are protected. we strongly disagree with the motion for a resolution which 'calls on the european commission and the member states to show leadership and conviction by agreeing to and facilitating tangible measures to protect biodiversity, both domestically and internationally', because it calls for 'wolves to shepherd the sheep'. they are asking those responsible for the disaster to lead against their own policy. we call on the people's movement and its organisations (trade unions, environmental organisations, agencies, etc.) to fight for measures and policies that will prevent further environmental degradation, forest destruction and biodiversity loss.
mr president, it is certain that mr barroso's intentions are pure. but i am afraid you will not be able to do it because you lack the money. there is no way, and your policy is not a policy that will make europe flourish. there is no european citizen who is in a better financial position this year than he was last year. the factories are leaving europe and going to other countries. your wife's purse is a french brand, but it's made in morocco. your leather is european brand, but it's made in turkey. what does that mean ? it means more unemployment. it means more layoffs. it means that we will all be held hostage by the industrialists who impose policies like that of france. a policy you did not oppose. so it means a worse life. it means increased accuracy. nothing you have in your mind can be creative if we do not break free from the shackles of the maastricht indicators. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission on the future of the european union.
mr president, i am very much afraid that the commission's gas proposal, which comes after the russia-ukraine crisis, is below the circumstances and needs. it's not enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. we cannot take serious steps towards a common energy policy, nor can we achieve cheaper and better technology for renewable sources and energy saving with the money allocated by the seventh framework programme for these objectives. the steps you propose for the common energy policy will not be able to combat the practices of the cartels which dominate - and rule - at the expense of consumers and of a united europe in the field of energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, energy supply and the exploitation of all energy sources is a political choice which must aim at addressing all the people's needs, such as reducing energy dependence, saving energy, safeguarding the safety of the inhabitants, protecting the environment, and protecting energy products as a social good and not as a commodity. the european union is pursuing a policy of liberalisation, sacrificing the satisfaction of the needs of the people to the profits of private investors. the green paper is also moving in the same direction as the lisbon strategy of competitiveness and anti-people sentiment, even using renewable energy sources as a vehicle for private capital to enter the energy sector. the appeal to environmental protection is hypocritical and conceals the european union's intellectual aims of accelerating liberalization, promoting relevant community products and reducing dependence on imported fuels. the solution can be found in a single energy sector, which will be the property of the people and will operate within the framework of an economy in which the basic means of production are socialised. this will address the critical issues and ensure that energy is not a commodity but a social good.
mr president, the importance of community subsidies to new and more energy-efficient technologies for renewable energy sources is now beyond doubt. moreover, by promoting the diversification of energy sources - not to mention wind and solar energy - from and through countries, we will help to create new conditions for growth, employment and sustainable development. in this connection, i would also like to stress and emphasize the support for biomass production through the development of national action plans to ensure economic and business certainty and reassurance for investors and producers, while at the same time providing an outlet for agricultural production. it should also be stressed that the harmonization of the internal energy market must aim at protecting consumers and not imposing a burden on them, policies which cannot be ensured by the operation of oligopolistic concentrations. finally, i would say that, in conjunction with the increase in investment in new forms of energy which are more environmentally friendly, the promotion of green taxation can be achieved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, commissioner, in the past and even now, great conflicts and wars have been fought for two reasons: firstly, energy and secondly, water. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will take a decision on it.
mr president, the subject we are discussing tonight is very important for the european union's external action and for our efforts to meet our political commitment to the achievement of the millennium development goals. it is therefore reasonable to ask whether the proposed amount for the 10th regional fund is less than the amount calculated by the european commission and for which we have committed ourselves or whether it is sufficient to meet the objectives and needs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we have often seen problems that need to be tackled immediately, such as the speed of disbursements and the accumulation of unused appropriations, which amount to 11 billion, as you have mentioned, mr president. the inclusion of the european development fund in the budget will also remove many of the complexities and difficulties in the implementation of successive european regional funds, help to speed up their implementation and eliminate the existing democratic deficit, as the european parliament has repeatedly expressed. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european investment bank is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. transparency should be improved by providing information on these funds, amounts by type of use, an overview of results and cooperation with the rest of the implementation and added value. we have also committed ourselves, together with the acp countries, to implementing the millennium development goals. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we will also be more democratic, more consistent in our commitments to european taxpayers and more effective in the millennium development goals.
mr president, mr bushill-matthews, the rapporteur, who is known for his diligence and sensitivity, has rightly pointed out, in his patient report, possible solutions to the demographic problem, starting with the search for means of tackling the low economic growth and high unemployment rates decisively. different approaches are being developed, where appropriate, which - as has been rightly stressed - must respect freedom of choice but also facilitate the exercise of the fundamental human right of european families to have as many children as they wish, without the obstacles posed by the difficulty of combining work and family life. the identification of these barriers and those that exist both within and outside the workplace (taxation, housing, education, health and insurance costs) is the responsibility of the member states, since the member states alone design both development and family policy. migration, of course, has often solved the problem of population renewal in history, and today it comes to fill the void created by our choices: no or one child and that in old age. but what has led us to these life choices in times of peace and prosperity? the search for the causes of demographic change is not the concern of the european commission or governments. it is not the responsibility of the european union but of every european citizen who wants to go beyond his human potential, both in planning the beginning of life and in imposing its end. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european audiovisual industry, and in particular the audiovisual sector, and has recently launched a new initiative to promote the development of audiovisual products. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in writing. the eu's decision to send euro-army troops to the democratic republic of congo is linked to the competition between the imperialist powers for control of the markets, the resources, the congo and the wider region of africa, which has paid for this policy with millions of dead. the cloak of peacekeeping and electoral process is used by the eu to cover up real objectives and to create facts and figures for future interventions. moreover, this mission of the eurostrat is the first implementation of the reactionary revision of the un, which provides for the integration of regional organizations (nato, eurostrat) into the un mechanisms, in order to "legitimize" imperialist interventions. it is also no accident that the resolution refers to the need to rebuild the drc in accordance with the iraqi model envisaged by the un declaration for 60 years. the second organized military mission of the euro-army after bosnia also proves its aggressive, invasive character. the people of the congo and africa do not need 'international protectors' who are responsible for the wars and the desperate situation they are experiencing.
in writing. the kke has opposed the eu's decision to create european political parties, which it wants to control and use to defend or promote the euro-path. the report calls for the upgrading of their role, modifies the financing system on more flexible terms, to use them as part of the brainwashing mechanism that prepares for the 'euro-constitution' and its policy to crush popular resistance. in the context of the so-called 'european communication policy', i.e. the ideological attack of capital and taking advantage of the 'cooling-off period', it mobilizes parliaments, regional authorities, ngos, smes, journalists and political parties of the euro-route to 'propagandise' and 're-establish' the euro-constitution and to rebuild the 'lost value' of the eu in the eyes of the workers of europe. it gives particular weight to youth by supporting the 'european parties' to create european youth organisations. at the same time, it ensures the absolute control and dependence of these parties to the point of determining its internal mode of operation. we oppose the report by refusing to give a declaration of loyalty to the imperialist alliance of capital, the eu, and call for resistance, indiscipline and disobedience.
mr president, i would like to stress the need to ensure that the human rights of all european citizens are upheld and respected, but especially those of the vast majority who, for 'historical' reasons, are considered to enjoy them and therefore do not claim them through organised pressure groups and protests. the division of the rights of the population of the european union over matters on which, of course, no one can deny the right to non-discrimination, often leads to misunderstandings and doubts about whether the obvious rule for the silent majority applies to every kind of right: the right to preserve life and human dignity, respect for freedom of expression and choice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the support for minority rights should therefore not give the impression that it is a suppression of majority rights.
mr president, the unrest in france cannot leave my generation untouched, which is the target of the famous first employment contract, or, in other words, the 'disposable worker' model. the young european, under the pressure of unemployment, may decide to join the experiment. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the elderly. older workers will view younger workers as competitors. they will be suffocated by the new "disposable workers", by the mobile, cheap and disciplined workforce. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that will be their fatal mistake. yesterday was the vote on the constitutional treaty. today, it is the social conflicts for the complete withdrawal of the law on 'workers-objects'. the social movement strengthens, rejects and demands. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment. not arbitrarily, not ignoring the needs of society and certainly not at the expense of a generation that had no fault in the world it received. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, many colleagues have mentioned at times the delay in the response of the institutions to questions put by them. the last incident concerns my own written question, which i submitted on 27 september 2005, concerning the meeting of the committee of ministers on 11 october 2005. the institution responsible answered my question five months later, on 9 march 2006, to inform me in only three lines of text that the council had not discussed the question whose position i had asked for, and had no plans to discuss it. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. what excuse can i invoke on the citizens for the answer they expected but never got?
mr president, the recent heavy rains in the region of bulgaria and northern greece have caused the evros river to overflow. thousands of acres of farmland were flooded, causing damage to crops, fields, and livestock, as many sheep, goats, pigs, and cows, totaling over 3,000 head, were drowned. many villages were flooded, and many homes were completely covered with water. in parallel with the relevant actions to be undertaken by the member states concerned, the european union is prepared to show its support for the plight of farmers in the affected countries in order to send a message to them that the european union is close to them because, as we know, solidarity is the highest principle in the european union:
member of the commission. mr president, as i said in my first statement i cannot agree with the statement that malta has been abandoned. the commission has so far provided all reasonable support possible and all the programmes that can be used will continue to be used to help malta solve the problem. but we should also be aware that centres do not solve the problem and it is most important to work with the countries where the migrant flows originate. this is our first challenge because, as long as there are conditions influencing people to move, they will move, and if it is now to malta, perhaps next time it will be to my country or another country. so that is the main challenge. the commission has already promised financial aid. we will provide it quickly. there are also expert teams and the proposal will be ready for 31 may. we will continue to work on joint patrols. as regards the dublin ii package, it takes time even if the member states agree – it was agreed four years ago. it is very important that parliament has raised this issue and consideration will be given as to how to address the situation in the best possible way. the principle of the member states of reception being first is quite logical, but we know what a problem that has created for malta. the commission will continue to work on this issue and provide all possible support at this stage, but it is very important that the maltese authorities also do their job because i believe that humane conditions and dignity should be considered also from the national authorities’ point of view. we expect each member state to do its homework in this respect because the community can provide support and consider how to find the best possible answers. yet at the same time we expect each member state to implement the conditions that are laid down in the european directives.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading of the report by anne laperrouze, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the guidelines for transeuropean energy networks and repealing decision 96/391/ec and decision no (10720/1/2005 - c6-0016/2006 - 2003/0297 ((cod)) (a6-0071/2006).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the openness of council meetings is, after all, a debate on democracy. i cannot but agree with the ombudsman's recommendations and with the suggestions of my colleague hammerstein mintz or my friend michael cashman. the lack of information to voters about the positions of their government representatives at eu level creates a murky landscape around who is responsible for decisions affecting their daily lives. governments find it convenient to blame the union for decisions that are not in their interest while claiming credit for decisions that are in their own state's interest. but democracy requires knowledge, judgment and reaction. the lack of knowledge of the positions of governments in the council also deprives national parliaments of the possibility of scrutinising their governments on european issues. the question of transparency in the council finally comes down to the fundamental question of whether or not we want a european public opinion. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a uniform manner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the weighting of the liabilities is an objective fact and, in any event, is borne by the selector. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one. the successful conclusion of the ongoing negotiations in the world trade organisation is a major challenge for the global community, as it is expected to significantly boost the global economy, growth and employment. it is also expected to make the international trading system fairer, more balanced and more efficient for the benefit of all trading partners. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the union, however, continues to come under pressure, and it is known that it submitted a very substantial offer on market access last october. it is sufficient to mention that the european union is the world's largest importer of agricultural products from developing countries. the general framework of the tariff reduction must be assessed in the light of: first, the substantial offer by the european union to abolish the community export refund system; the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's internal support is reduced, and that the community's farmers are placed at a comparative disadvantage because they have to comply with stricter rules. i believe that further unilateral concessions by the european union at this stage would clearly jeopardise the implementation of the revised cap and would help little or no help to those countries for whom the development programme is designed. the development should not be confused with the unilateral promotion of the interests of the large agricultural exporters. at the same time, substantial progress is needed in other important areas, which are areas of particular concern to the european union, the third industrialized countries and the developing countries. for nafta, the final agreement should secure new, real market access opportunities through substantial reductions in tariffs applied in both developed and dynamically developing countries. for services, further substantial liberalisation is required, while fully respecting national policies and the right of member states to regulate their public services. the emerging economies must shoulder their share of responsibility and contribute. it is precisely these countries that maintain the highest levels of protection and hold the key to the development of the poorer countries through the promotion of south-south trade. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the full exemption of all developing countries from commitments would act as a counter-incentive to reform and to tackle the intrinsic factors of their developmental backwardness. on the contrary, i believe that the extroversion and more active participation of developing countries in multilateral negotiations, in accordance with their level of development, will contribute to their effective integration into the world economy. the provision of adequate targeted technical support is a necessary condition for them to meet their new obligations and to effectively implement wto rules. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the failure of multilateral negotiations and, by extension, the shift to bilateral regional agreements could lead to an unequal liberalisation process, an unequal distribution of the development product and uncontrolled trade disputes. the european union rightly remains committed to the multilateral approach to trade policy and its support for the wto as the organized expression of global trade governance. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, we need 40 million jobs in europe. in greece alone, we need 1 million. can we promise them? we can't promise them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. 10% of the working population will live below the poverty line. he'll live on unemployment. we don't have our own power. gas from russia, oil from the middle east, energy that will continue to get more expensive because of the over-demand from china and india. with a powerful currency that prohibits exports; look at the cheap dollar what exports it gives america. the maastricht criteria are too narrow, so the criteria are thriving and the people are suffering. this is a reality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. you can't find a doll made in a european factory. and this is still chinese. the factories in europe are going to third countries and, of course, the wages are going with them. the farmers are suffering. cotton and tobacco in greece are insured in warehouses. we must change course, otherwise the european citizen will not be able to survive.
member of the commission. i listened with interest to the debate on mr őry's report and i must say that it was a very thorough debate which shed light on the issue of free movement of workers from many angles and from many general points of view. let me add just one point to this debate that has not been given much light. a transitional period was part of each enlargement, each enlargement had a significant concern, each enlargement did not fully address that concern. ladies and gentlemen, the present accession treaty has therefore chosen this gradual system of several partial dates so that we can achieve that the final step in 2011 will be as small as possible. i am therefore very pleased that it can now be said that europe will make significant progress towards full freedom of movement for workers from 1 may this year. ladies and gentlemen, thank you again for a debate which was very serious, very deep and often very sharp - as befits this serious subject. (applause) thank you very much.
we'll look into it, mr heaton-harris.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results and other information on the vote: see minutes) )
the rapporteur. mr president, in the sentence which is introduced with the phrase: 'stresses the importance' and ends with the word: 'subsidies', it is proposed to add a word. the proposal is therefore re-examined as follows: 'stresses the importance, therefore, of achieving positive results in reducing and eliminating its domestic subsidies'. in order to avoid confusion and for reasons of grammar and semantic completeness, it is proposed that this sentence be inserted immediately after the sentence ending with the words 'cotton farmers'.
the time for voting is over.
in writing. the european competition policy has rules and objectives which destroy the small and mediumsized sectors and which make european monopolies gigantic by financing them and by privatising them, and not consumer interests, as you hypocritically claim. the word 'competitiveness' is, moreover, synonymous with the greater exploitation of workers, the destruction of their gains and the reduction of the remuneration of the workforce, when modern needs are increasing. competition law is in the service of the anti-people lisbon strategy and aims to control, block and reduce any subsidy or state aid to satisfy popular needs that workers may have derived from their struggles. it is a lie that competition contributes to lower prices for consumers. experience to date has shown the opposite: market sharing and profit growth for firms and precision for workers. in the name of competitiveness, are young people not being led into working conditions that will be extended to all workers? the youth of france are rightly rising up and we stand in solidarity. they are the hope for radical change against the exploitative policies of the eu and governments, and that is why we are with them.
in writing. the kke votes against the report on the evaluation of the doha round because it moves and repeats the reactionary-anti-people framework of the wto ministerial conference in hong kong, the outrageous demands of eu capital as defined and promoted in good cooperation with the usa. the aim of the eu and the us, even during the negotiations which are under way, is to exploit even more the peoples and the resources of the developed capitalist states and much more the developing and less developed countries. the eu and the us, together with the other imperialist powers, are selectively opening markets, abolishing subsidies for agricultural products - at the expense of small and medium-sized farmers - in order to penetrate the markets of developing and less developed countries, to fully control industrial products, the provision of services and the predatory exploitation of water, energy, etc., to maximize its profitability.
, in writing. the general guidelines of the eu's economic policy for 2006 contain all the anti-people measures that will bring more precision, unemployment, inequality, poverty, uncertainty, misery for the working class and the popular strata and more wealth for eu capital. the european union has been able to achieve this by means of the national reform programmes (nrp), which have been designed to tighten the noose of capitalist barbarism, as the lisbon strategy proclaims, on the people with speed and precision. the many alibis: population ageing to raise retirement age limits, energy security to privatise the energy sector and convert it from a social good into a commodity, reducing deficits as required by the stability pact through "containment" of public spending on popular needs, linking wages to productivity to ensure the reduction of wages and pensions. at the same time, tax breaks and simplified procedures for setting up businesses, flexible forms of work, lifelong training for the needs of the market, state aid and research in the service of entrepreneurs rather than the needs of society. it is the eu's new attack on the working class and youth that only a strong mass movement can counter and open the way by putting into practice the enormous wealth that is being produced and must be enjoyed by its creators, the workers, and not by their exploiters.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the complexity of national administrations, the limited capacity for integration and, in many cases, the lack of will make things more difficult. the european union itself seems to be the most effective measure. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. the correct application of community legislation is a process which would enable europe in the medium term to reduce its bottlenecks and become more competitive in the international globalised environment, to the benefit of citizens, consumers and businesses. we need clear, comprehensive and understandable rules. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the simplification and rationalisation of the corpus legislation is very important. it would also be preferable for laws, while respecting the principles of transparency, proportionality and consistency, to regulate the main points of a sector and to provide for implementing measures, including technical details. the effectiveness of the regulation is important in the evaluation of the benefits and costs of implementation. the social dialogue with the actors involved is therefore essential, so that they can be in a position to help shape the legislation. especially when it comes to major policy proposals, it's the only way to win the trust of the citizens. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european agency for the development of vocational training (eadvt).
member of the commission. as you know the regions in europe can also use part of the funds allocated to them to invest in those regions that are not in eu member states, but which are part of neighbouring countries, so this possibility of using part of the allocation on neighbouring territory is open to the outermost regions. additionally, within the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, which is still currently under preparation with regard to its legal form by the commission, there will be the possibility of working together with neighbouring countries and regions on issues related to those that you are addressing to create jobs and employment opportunities on the other side of the border. in the canaries, in particular, they will be able to allocate part of the money in the new neighbourhood and partnership instrument and thus will be able to have external cooperation, for example, with the border areas of morocco. so that is what this policy, through the financial instruments, can do. but on top of that comes a political concern. within the commission we had a discussion a week or so ago on the situation in some of the outermost regions in the context of migration and the difficult situations experienced. so, within other instruments and politically, the commission will be involved in the very near future to help address this issue. we have some financial instruments, which are restricted. as you have said yourselves, the budget is not what we expected when the commission put the proposal on the table, nevertheless, in addition to those restricted financial means, there are also efforts to work with neighbouring countries, or regions next to our outermost regions, to find political solutions to some of the problems.
member of the commission. it is a very difficult question. it is very difficult to see what balance is in this case, because the issues and problems faced by those regions are very different. some of our regions suffer because they are very sparsely populated and that means that infrastructure costs are very high. this is a challenge not only for us at european level but also for the governments involved. other regions suffer from overpopulation and from problems of migration. therefore, it is very difficult to measure what is balanced and what is not. as you know, within this very restrictive budget during the council – which is also part of the european tradition – there were also additional requests put on the table. what i presented – all those additional measures which were offered to the regions – is something that came during the council and was not part of a global balanced proposal of the commission. we have to look at the current situation and try to make those resources work as well as possible and try to use the resources that were allocated to the sparsely populated regions of sweden and finland in the most efficient way and do the best we can. however, i do not see a need to compare the eur 540 million that finland and sweden received for those regions to the money allocated to the outermost regions. the situations are very different: the money has a different value. the commission will certainly work with both types of problems – in the outermost regions and the sparsely populated regions – to get the best we can from the funds which will be available.
member of the commission. i do not have the feeling that the commission is not strong in the negotiations. my understanding is that we are trying to help reach a compromise at a level that would be satisfactory for all three institutions. it so happens that the two institutions – the council and parliament – have gone quite far in financial terms; in terms of the level of the budget that is on the table. the commission’s efforts should go, in my view, towards helping them to find a compromise. the level of budget is extremely important. we hope that we will have the funds also for those areas that were cut so seriously in december. but it is also important to reach agreement. i do not know what the trialogue looks like as i do not participate in it, but i can imagine that there are moments when the commission’s role is to be the one who helps to find a compromise. that might give you the impression that we do not care about money, but that is not the case. we do care. we know that if we had more money we could do more for europe, with europe and in europe for all citizens. however, sometimes realism and the challenge of timing are also important. that is my understanding.
member of the commission. you may be aware that the before the end of last year the greek authorities submitted to the commission a list of requests for exemptions from the n+2 rule. the total amount was more than eur 655 million. the intention was to cover an amount of eur 342 million, potentially subject to the n+2 rule. the request submitted relates to 12 operational programmes in greece and also implies the intervention of three funds: the erdf, the esf and the agricultural fund. the commission has completed the processing of the greek request concerning the application of the n+2 rule and reached the conclusion that what is left as the potential cut due to the n+2 rule is eur 8 638 000, which is much less than what was initially on the table. we are still waiting for confirmation by the greeks and, if they confirm this, this will be the amount the commission effectively expects as the commitment. the second part of your question concerns the eligibility period for the commitments and payments. as you know, for the 2000-2006 programming period, the eligibility period ends on 31 december 2008. commitments are, theoretically – and i would like to stress that – possible during the entire eligibility period, which means 2008. however, commitments should be made early enough to allow the final recipients to implement the operations and projects and to carry out the payments before the final eligibility date for the expenditure, which is the end of 2008. we will close the expenditure for all the member states under the current financial perspective on 31 december 2008, with the exception of programmes and measures which are covered by state aid. according to the rules, this eligibility date is 30 april 2009. i also want to inform you that, according to all our legal analyses and the information we have in the commission, there could be no exceptions to these conditions – i mean the end of 2008 or april 2009 – as regards the final possible date of eligibility. so the final date is the end of 2008 or april 2009, and that is the situation.
i'm the editor. i would like to ask you, mr president, commissioner, if you would allow me to ask you one more question. given that the acceptance of the derogation requests is shifting the pressure to the next few years, can the commission tell me how greece's obligations for 2006 and 2007 are shaping up and what is the commission's forecast, if any, for the application of the n+2 rule for these two years?
the low voter turnout of european citizens in the european elections and the rejection of the constitutional treaty by two countries may be the tip of the iceberg of a sometimes difficult relationship between the european citizen and the european union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. as regards the citizens of europe programme, our colleague, mr takkula, in his proposal for a proposal on which he has worked very hard, renames it from 'citizens for europe', which was its original title, to 'europe for citizens', thus filling a gap in the programme which is added to existing community programmes such as the 'lifelong learning' and 'youth in action' programmes which are aimed mainly at young people. but two difficult periods in the course of the twentieth century are also an integral part of european history and are also part of our common memory and history. the memory of the victims who were exterminated and displaced and imprisoned by authoritarian regimes must remain alive. we cannot and must not forget the tragic moments our continent experienced 60 years ago in the concentration and extermination camps, the work of nazism, but we cannot and must not forget the crimes committed by stalinism. but memory preservation cannot be piecemeal. we cannot commemorate the victims of nazism and stalinism and at the same time forget fascism and the dictatorships of southern europe. this year marks the 20th anniversary of the accession of spain and portugal to the european community. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. we are also celebrating this year the 25th anniversary of greece's accession to the european community. from 1946 to 1974, concentration camps operated in greece where thousands of citizens were exiled for their political views. the island of gyaros, used as a place of exile by the romans, and macronisos, became the tomb of many people who lost their lives there from the hardships and tortures they suffered along with thousands of other citizens who were exiled to these islands in those years. the common feature of the southern european countries is that the consolidation of democracy in these countries was achieved largely thanks to their membership of the european community. the citizens of europe programme, which we are discussing today, will therefore have a real and comprehensive value. the amendments which mr catania and other colleagues have mentioned earlier must therefore also be voted in favour of, because they complement the extensive and very important proposal of our colleague mr takkula.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to explain to my dear colleague, mrs pack, the letter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am a recipient of such letters as we all are. now, as regards a comment made by another colleague, committee chairmen exercise their right, like all members, to table amendments and, even if they think they may not be adopted in their committee, they have the right - this is not against the rules of procedure - to table them in the plenary. i think it's something we all do. back to the point: the cultural capitals remain today the largest and best organised political institution in europe. no other cultural action in the european union today has the same scope and, above all, the same visibility and mass participation by citizens. in addition, it is difficult to think of many other modern european initiatives in the field of culture which have been a model. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the main issue is to improve the method of selecting cultural capitals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the present framework does not, as has been said, ensure competition. another important point is that the european dimension is often missing from the programmes, and i have seen this in the cultural events i have attended in the context of three or four cultural capitals. the new proposal, on which our rapporteur, mrs prets, has done a very good job, seeks to reconcile the different views both within parliament and within the council. i would like to say a few words about the prize. it is important that the commission has proposed that this prize be established in honour of melina mercouri. the proposal to name the prize after her was not a coincidence on the part of the commission and, of course, on the part of the 25 council representatives who accepted it. because melina mercouri was the inspiration, the creator who worked all those years as minister of culture to establish this award. so it was her idea and i think it's important that in the future it bears her name. of course, there was a compromise on the original proposal. in conclusion, i would like to add that the european union is embracing the cultural capitals. at the same time, however, apart from the fact that the choice is no longer independent, the guideline for the member states is to define better the ways of intervening, especially in infrastructure if not in programmes.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, the president of the commission has said a number of things. i take the phrase he said that we must overcome nationalist reflexes - he used the word 'nationalist' as a deterrent to nationalist reflexes. but did we not teach the peoples of europe national reflexes when communism was dominant with internationalisation ? in the face of the internationalisation of communism we have developed national reflexes in the people. we called the league of nations the league of nations and not the league of states, and we called the united nations the united nations and not the united states, precisely to develop national reflections. now we say to them, take away these reflexes because we have to serve globalization, which is the other side of internationalization. this is the reality. and when you talk about a common energy policy, you mean committing the states not to have their own national energy policy. if they don't have their own national energy policy, it means they can't have better relations with the gulf countries that have oil or with russia that has energy. therefore, you hold all peoples, all states hostage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president of the council and mr president of the commission, you are celebrating and bragging about yourselves. you are very happy about the results of the spring summit. do you think the european citizens feel the same way? i don't think he did. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one. the famous term "flexicurity" describes just that. after five years of failure, you are setting ambitious targets and even binding timetables for jobs, research, energy, development, and at the same time the budget is extremely eurocentric and lacks ambition. what resources and policies will you use to achieve these objectives when critical sectors such as the structural funds, the transeuropean networks, consumer protection and health policy, research and education are suffering from drastic cuts in resources? do you think you'll achieve the goals you've set? my political group does not believe that, and that is why it disagrees with your policy.
i would like to make it clear, mr president, that i am a member of parliament and i have the right to table an amendment in the house. that's what i did. mr takkula's presentation and report are outstanding. but what does our proposal with the two amendments add? the whole thing! we cannot speak only of nazism-stalinism when in greece, spain and portugal there have been concentration camps for forty years in which thousands of people lived for twenty years. as chairman of a committee i have followed the proper procedure, but as a member of parliament i have the right to table an amendment. (voices from the right)
in writing. through the citizens for europe programme, the commission and the european parliament are launching a campaign of brainwashing of the peoples of europe to counter the growing discontent and condemnation of its policies and the questioning of the eu itself. its ideological arsenal rests on two pillars. the sanctification of capitalist barbarism as the only way for the peoples and anti-communism by the restoration of the "memorandum" window identifying fascism with communism. by allocating 235 million euros to pay and buy up all kinds of eurotunnel champions and propagandists, it is mobilizing the agnostic mechanisms and the so-called ngos to foster a positive climate and to sow illusion among the people about the character and policy of the eu. the same task is given to the compromised leaderships of trade unions, to hide under the title of 'citizens of europe' the great and irreconcilable class antagonisms of society between the capitalists and the working class. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a resolution on the situation in the community. as regards the amendment condemning nazism and the dictatorships of europe, we abstained because it does not clearly name the dictatorships of spain, portugal and greece, but is worded in such a way that socialist regimes can be interpreted as dictatorships.
in writing. the restructuring of the european capital of culture institution is part of a wider effort to integrate and homogenize the cultural fabric of each country with the aim of creating a single 'european culture' background containing a mixture of subculture, folklore presence of national cultures and modern commercial structures. the experience of our country in athens in 1985 and thessaloniki in 1997 is already sad in the cultural and economic spheres. multi-layered, historically disconnected, superficial cultural programs of corporate offices, agents and sponsors with vulgar commercial-profit criteria that drowned out any bright exceptions. secular events, lavish buffets, festive, tasteless actions that marginalized or pushed aside what was progressive in the country and in neighboring countries. this is the 'european cultural model' which is a source of enormous profits for the various companies. the proposed amendment maintains the same character, transfers the costs to the member states and strengthens eu surveillance and control. it calls on the people to pay at national level for the profits of businessmen and the costs of eu policy to impose european subculture and the "values" of capitalist barbarity. we are opposing the report and calling on the workers, the artists and the cultural people to resist.
mr president, the results of the recent elections in israel have in effect legitimized the strategy of unilaterally imposing the conditions for a solution to the palestinian problem. it is no coincidence that the political leadership of israel uses more the word 'security' and much less the word 'peace', because peace requires negotiations and painful compromises. on the contrary, security is linked to the unilateral determination of the final border regime, to the maintenance of the occupation in east jerusalem, to the settlements in the west bank, to the wall of shame. i believe that israel's strategic planning, reinforced by the new political situation in the palestinian territories, is not creating conditions for peace. it does not create a viable palestinian state. on the contrary, it contributes to the creation of a virtual state of disconnected regions without fixed borders. the european union is right to impose conditions on hamas. but we do not see any conditions that the european union will impose on israel. because israel doesn't respect the oslo agreement either. because israel doesn't respect the terms of the road map either. today, both mr solana and mrs ferrero have approached the issue with greater realism from the european union's side. we must continue in the same reliable way if we are to be effective as a european union.
president-in-office of the council. i do not agree with the honourable member that our pleas fall on deaf ears. progress has been made and continues to be made and we believe that the means we are using are improving the situation. i am hesitant to talk about sanctions because we have to use the means that promise most success. i believe that dialogue is the means of choice because i doubt very much whether we would achieve the desired result if we started speaking about trade sanctions. i think we are on the right track. we are making progress. we should continue on this track and eventually we will make even more progress. believe me, we are bringing these questions up, not only through the austrian presidency, but through all member states in their bilateral contacts, the european union as a whole, the council, and within the framework of the united nations. it is very clear that in the end this is the best way to proceed.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, first of all, i have to say, in reply to mr papadimoulis' question, that the council has never discussed the matters raised. i should also like to point out that the commission has the task of ensuring that the treaties and the provisions adopted by the institutions of the union on the basis of those treaties are respected. if the commission considers that a member state has failed to fulfil an obligation under community law, it can and does of course refer the matter to the court of justice for a ruling. madam president, i could now say a few words on the legal situation. i assume that the honourable member is very familiar with this legal situation and therefore would not like to go into every single directive but would like to mention only a few, such as the data protection directive, directive 95/46 and a number of other directives - one of which is the directive requiring operators of publicly available electronic communications services to take appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure the security of their services. there are a number of other community provisions. if these community provisions are not respected, the commission has not only the right but also the duty to take appropriate action, and it does so.
i'm the editor. mr president, i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. but the scandal of illegal wiretapping that is rocking my country is a scandal involving the monitoring of the phones of the prime minister, ministers, members of the armed forces. i am surprised that the council has not been concerned about its obvious european dimension. how can you be so sure, mr. secretary, that your own phone calls aren't being monitored?
the president of the council. i don't know if that was a philosophical question. i'm not a philosopher, i'm a lawyer. the question you asked me, i would answer it this way: the violation of civil rights must always be a concern of ours, not just in the abstract, but in the concrete, whether it is illegal wiretapping or anything else. the rules we have - both national and european - are designed to prevent this. if they cannot prevent this, then the appropriate consequences must be drawn. that seems to me to be the logical answer to your question and to the question of the honourable member from greece. as far as i am aware, and according to the latest commission report from last year, greece has not yet notified any measures to implement the directive in question and has therefore been sued by the commission before the european court of justice, which only proves that the system is working. austria is also repeatedly accused of breach of the treaty. we have an opportunity to comment on this. that is how the system works, and i think that is how it should work.
the president of the council. i have to be honest with you, mr. member, i don't know. i have no answer to your specific question as to how this was done at the time, but i am of the opinion that what is wrong is wrong. the fact that something has been done unlawfully is not in itself a question of the legal system. i can't give you a definitive answer to the incident. it also took place before the austrian presidency, so that the austrian presidency of the council did not feel in any way called upon to take any concrete steps in this respect. i also believe that appropriate measures have been and will be taken to ensure that such cases do not recur.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the council is of course very well aware of the questions raised by mr beglitis. the ratification and subsequent application of the protocol adapting the ankara agreement to take account of the accession of the 10 new eu member states is also a priority, and a priority in the short term, in the context of the revised accession partnership adopted in january 2006. furthermore, in their declaration of 21 september 2005, the european community and its member states stated that the union would monitor the full and non-discriminatory application of the additional protocol to all eu member states and would assess this in 2006. the application of the protocol is a prerequisite for the opening of negotiations on the relevant chapters. the failure to implement the protocol in full will undoubtedly affect the overall progress of the negotiations. the council will review progress on these issues during the current year. as regards the unresolved border disputes, reference should be made to the relevant conclusions adopted by the european council at its meeting in helsinki in 1999 and at its meeting in brussels in december 2004. there can of course be no doubt that turkey, as a candidate country, must share the values and objectives of the european union as enshrined in the treaties. it must demonstrate an unwavering commitment to good neighbourly relations and to the settlement of unresolved border disputes in accordance with the principle of peaceful settlement of disputes enshrined in the charter of the united nations. these issues are part of the negotiating framework, are short-term priorities of the accession partnership and are systematically raised at the meetings of the political dialogue with turkey. as regards the reopening of the theological faculty of halki, this is a demand which the union continues to make to turkey with great insistence. the freedom of religion, which we have also discussed today, is generally one of the areas where further progress is urgently needed and where concrete action is now required. the adoption of a law regulating all the difficulties of non-muslim religious minorities and religious communities in accordance with the european standards in force is one of the short-term priorities of the accession partnership. i met the president of the turkish constitutional court just two days ago and raised this issue. i have been assured that the constitutional court has taken measures concerning the legal personality and the ability of religious communities to acquire land ownership, and that these measures have actually acquired or will acquire legal force. anyway, this is a topic we discuss regularly. in this context, the council can assure the honourable member that we will continue to pursue these issues in the context of the ongoing reform process in turkey, taking full account of the conclusions of the european council of december 2004, the negotiating framework for turkey and the revised accession partnership. the progress of reforms and the respect by turkey of its contractual obligations will of course have an impact on the negotiation process. the council's conclusions on these issues in its further deliberations cannot, of course, be anticipated at this stage.
i'm the editor. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. on the one hand, we say that the implementation of the protocol is a short-term obligation of turkey, in the next year or two, on the other hand, we say that the implementation of the protocol is a condition for the opening of negotiations on the relevant funds for the customs union. i would ask you, mr minister, if turkey is ready or willing to open the chapter of the customs union negotiations after five years, what will the european union do? are we giving her a way out? secondly, mr minister, you did not answer my question about the role of the army in turkish political life, which is a political criterion and we see today that the army continues to play a dominant role in the turkish political system.
the president of the council. i do not agree that we, as the council of the european union, are sending conflicting signals. there is a clear process that is progressing. all will be checked in due course and the relevant items will be fulfilled as specified. the council is also continuously consulting and must reach a conclusion. there is not always unanimity. but only when there is a consensus will the signals go out. i very much believe that the council is acting consistently and logically on the progress of the negotiations and the recoveries of commitments - as i have said very clearly, these are commitments which must be respected - and will continue to do so.
i would like to ask you, mr president, how the presidency is dealing with the complaints expressed by turkey and the attempts to negotiate the completion of the customs union in connection with the cyprus problem. have you answered clearly ? as for the halki school, how far does patience and waiting go?
the president of the council. it is not a question of whether we are satisfied or dissatisfied with an answer. it is a question of whether commitments are being fulfilled. these commitments must be fulfilled. as i said in my answer to the original question, the progress of the negotiations will depend on the extent to which these commitments have been fulfilled, and not on the nature of the declarations. whether an obligation has been fulfilled or not does not depend on the answer given. the question of the faculty of chalki is one we raise regularly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, on this question, i can say first of all that the case of mohammed mughrabi was not discussed during the meeting of the foreign ministers with the lebanese prime minister, fuad siniora, which took place on the sidelines of the council meeting on 20 march. the visit of mr siniora to brussels, which was very short, was an opportunity to highlight the european union's commitment to the independence, sovereignty and democracy of lebanon at an important moment in that country's history. this meeting, in the framework of a joint foreign ministers' meeting, was not the appropriate occasion to discuss the case of dr mughrabi. that does not mean that the council is not following dr mughrabi's case closely. it has already addressed it to the lebanese government on several occasions, including on 22 december in the form of a demarche to the lebanese authorities to express the european union's concern about the allegations against mr mughrabi. i would also like to express very clearly the council's conviction that it is intolerable for a person to be prosecuted for peacefully exercising his right to freedom of expression, and this in the presence of an institution of the european union such as the european parliament. we will therefore continue to follow this case closely.
the president of the council. i'm of the opinion that this is a serious case. if this case was raised in a relatively short meeting, such as a lunch, it cannot be concluded that we do not take this case seriously. as you know, the european union is about to enter into negotiations with the lebanese government on an action plan under the european neighbourhood policy, in which we will of course - as is customary in such action plans - address human rights and democracy as the main priorities. the action plan also addresses the need to establish an independent and impartial judiciary. it will be a useful instrument to assist the government in embarking on important and necessary reforms in these areas. you mentioned the association agreement which entered into force on 1 april, which now provides a new additional instrument for expanding and intensifying the human rights dialogue with the government of lebanon.
i would like to congratulate mr casaca on his question, but i would also like to add that in the last year many prominent journalists, many prominent intellectuals, leftist activists in lebanon have been murdered. the question is not just whether we should start working with lebanon as the european union now. the question is not just whether the un security council resolutions on syria should be implemented. i believe that the council and the presidency must put pressure on lebanon and the new lebanese government to respect human rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the president of the council. i can answer that question very briefly. i agree with the honourable member. it is not just a question of meeting commitments in the framework of initiatives and activities towards syria, as we know them within the united nations. the european union is particularly concerned with the implementation of human rights obligations. we'll take that seriously. we now have the instruments to tackle these questions with all seriousness and force, and we will do so.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, i should like to begin by saying - and this is also a very personal concern of mine - that the council is constantly advocating the unconditional observance of all international standards of human rights and international humanitarian law in the context - and particularly in the context - of the fight against terrorism. this has also been reflected in council acts and programmes such as the framework decision of 13 june 2002 on the fight against terrorism and the eu counter-terrorism strategy of 1 december 2005. the foreign ministers discussed the issue of the guantanamo camp during their dinner in parallel with the european council in brussels on 22 and 23 march, and noted, inter alia, that guantanamo remains a matter of grave concern. they have noted that the heads of government of some of the closest allies of the united states have called for the closure of guantánamo and that these calls were right and timely. some eu ministers also pointed out that they had already expressed their concern at meetings with the us secretary of state in brussels. i would also point out that on 22 march the president of the council, foreign minister plassnik, publicly stated that the call to close guantánamo had already been made on several occasions by eu member states and allies of the united states. she went on to say: 'these statements were good and important, but not enough.' the eu has for some time been engaged in a targeted legal dialogue with the united states, based on the principle that no one can stand in a space free of law, aimed at applying international humanitarian law and human rights in the fight against terrorism. we are assuming, and i quote, that guantanamo will soon be a thing of the past. this was expressed in the context of the recognition of the need to fight terrorism in a credible and human rights-compliant manner and to insist on this particularly as the european union builds the bids .
i'm the deputy editor. the council's representative, mr president, sometimes you speak clearly, as you did this morning when, in the name of - as you say - human rights violations, you took action against belarus, and sometimes you speak in a whisper. we ask directly. and there are two questions: question number one: is there any attempt by the united states of america to avoid bringing the issue of closing guantanamo to the un human rights council? do you agree to be put or disagree? second question, which i want you to answer clearly because you have answered indirectly: do you now agree to close the guantanamo base and, if so, what measures will you take as a council against the united states of america to press for the closure of the guantanamo base?
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as regards the financial requirements, following the agreement reached at the european council in december, the commission will begin to assess the possibilities for community grants under the new framework. once this evaluation is completed, the council will resume its discussions without delay, with a view to reaching agreement on the final adoption of the proposal as soon as possible and before the end of the year. on transport in general, it should be stressed that community grants in the field of transeuropean transport networks are intended to co-finance projects which are often carried out in the member states in the framework of cooperation between national, public and private bodies. community grants can, in a sense, provide a leverage effect for financing by public and private bodies at national level and promote the coordination of various national measures, particularly in cross-border sections. however, the implementation of projects remains the responsibility of the member states concerned and, of course, of the actors involved. where the implementation of a project of common interest is significantly delayed, the commission may, in accordance with decision no 1692/96/ec of the european parliament and of the council on community guidelines for the development of the trans-european transport network, consult the member states concerned and decide on appropriate measures, taking due account of the division of responsibilities. as regards the review of the list of priority projects contained in the decision, the commission may, in accordance with its right of initiative, submit legislative proposals in the context of the report on the implementation of the guidelines which it shall submit every two years. as regards the budget line for the tens in the 2007-2013 financial perspective, i would like to point out in general, as regards the financing of tens projects from trans-european networks funds during this period, that i already called for the trans-european networks to be allocated as much as possible in the financial perspective when i chaired the european parliament's committee on transport and tourism on 25 january. i have also drawn the attention of decision-makers and negotiators to the importance and urgency of this, and to the fact that it is impossible to announce growth strategies and job creation at european level without taking account of mobility and sustainability, for which the development of trans-european networks is an essential prerequisite. i have taken positive note of the fact that a compromise was reached yesterday in the trilogue talks. it is hoped that the use of all the possibilities will at least mitigate the reduction in tens funding over the period 2007-13. as president of the transport, telecommunications and energy council, i myself have always stressed the importance of the implementation of the priority tens projects identified and, as i said, i have also drawn the attention of those responsible in these negotiations to this and put pressure on them wherever possible and appropriate. i am glad that we have reached a provisional agreement and i hope that we can now at least tackle the most important projects in this direction.
i'm the editor. i am very grateful to the commissioner for his reply, and i hope that he will be able to give us a reply to the questions put by the commissioner. but my question is clear: given the need to develop transeuropean networks and to complete the single market for mobility, and all that you have mentioned, is it possible to achieve these objectives with 7 billion euros? if the objectives are so overwhelming and the amounts so far short, what does the council intend to propose to fill the gap, beyond a general call for cooperation between the private and the public sector? and also, of the amount that has increased, about 500 million euros, what percentage is for energy and what for transport?
the president of the council. i would also like to respond to oral question h-0237/06 by mr jałowiecki. as the honourable member will be aware, the european parliament and the council have adopted the decision on community guidelines for the development of a transeuropean transport network. it assumes the completion of the works on the railway axis no 23 that is the said axis gdanskwarsawbrno/bratislavavienna in the period 2010-2015. the presidency considers that this railway axis is of paramount importance, as it contributes to the relocation of businesses along the axis and encourages a shift towards alternative modes of transport in long-distance transport, while also taking into account the mobility needs of regional travellers. in july last year, six european coordinators were appointed to promote the implementation of five priority transport axes and the introduction of the european railway management system. the railway line 23 is not one of these first priority projects, but the presidency cannot make a decision at this stage as to which lines will be considered as priorities in the future and whether a second group of european coordinators will be involved. i'm asking you to understand. the transport projects of the railway axis no 23 are part of the national reform programmes (nrp) of the czech republic, poland and slovakia; the commission has already carried out economic studies, and has begun studies on the technical design and environmental impact. i would also add that in austria, major investments are planned in the vienna-venice transport section, which is also mentioned in this question. it should also be recalled that a final decision on the railway axis no 23 is also dependent on an agreement on the financial perspective 2007-2013, as has been mentioned several times today, and on the mobilisation of private capital.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i think it is a good idea that the coordinator responsible, who must of course be informed, should also be here, before the responsible, interested and responsible members, to speak and answer and to give an account. i'm happy to take that idea and pass it on.
the president of the council. it's like i said. there is a series of thirty priority ten projects. the six most important are coordinated by coordinators. experience will show that there are delays here and there, and then there will be redirections. that's why i emphasized that the ranking is good and important. the high level group under karel van miert has done an excellent job in this area. but you're gonna have to be flexible. the transport links are not only important for economic growth and employment, but also for implementing what we have stated in various white and green papers, namely the shift of freight from road to rail. we must also provide intact projects for this. i am convinced that we cannot fight together enough here to ensure that the appropriate resources are available beyond the next period. i am very much in favour of the innovative possibilities and approaches already mentioned, including the use of private funds, to implement projects earlier than is possible, on the one hand in the interests of the economy, in the interests of employment, but above all in the interests of the environment and the population on many transit routes.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i like to do that. the situation at the brenner base tunnel, the heart of the berlin-palermo transit route, is as follows: the commission has given a commitment to co-finance the pilot scheme by 50%, which is a large amount. the investment volume for this pilot toll is approximately eur 450 million. we are now in phase 2 of this test tunnel, i.e. preparation, we will start construction of the tunnel this summer and we will do everything possible to complete phase 3 - the construction phase for the brenner base tunnel itself - in two and a half to three years at the latest, so that the completion of the construction, as envisaged in the state contract between italy and austria, is guaranteed by 2015 at the latest. i have always said that if we pursue these objectives with ambition, we can save two years, so that the brenner base tunnel, the heart of this transit route, could be completed in 2013 at the very least. i would also like to point out that if the countries concerned agree and the commission gives them the best possible support - as vice-president barrot has just done, who has also been on the spot to inquire about the situation - then we can proceed accordingly. i am also very much counting on the commission and the european union for the rest of the co-financing.
madam president, there was a question of my own to which i was waiting for an answer and i thought that time would be sufficient to arrive at a number, but unfortunately many colleagues intervened on a particular question and there was no opportunity to consider my own. and i've been waiting, as you can see, for an hour and a half here, but unfortunately, we're going to have to get a written answer.
i would like to draw your attention to three points, mr president, because there has been a great deal of discussion on which i can agree. the first point is that we must focus our attention today, as we discuss world health day, on prevention. prevention, and investing heavily in prevention, is very important because it means reducing morbidity and therefore reducing the cost of treatment and hospital care, with obvious benefits for both citizens and public finances. improving the health of the population is undoubtedly a driver of progress, empowers citizens by ensuring longer, better, more productive lives and is a prerequisite for economic prosperity. second point: i would like to focus our attention on those who have given us the innovative treatments, the innovative medicines, the vaccines and, in general, the knowledge to fight disease, and those who are involved in the patient's practice - the doctors, the nurses and all the others involved - and we need to dig into this area, to see what gaps there are, so that we can have just the competence in this area. and of course, we also have to use new knowledge and technologies, such as telemedicine, which is important to provide modern help. finally, the third point is the inequalities that exist today in the provision of health services. even within the european union there are inequalities. and of course, there are inequalities in the world at the moment, there are deaths, there is a lot of disease, and i think that the european union should also deal with this issue, invest money in this area, because no one can be happy in the midst of misery. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the community's citizens is not compromised by the fact that the health of the sick is not guaranteed by the health of the citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, in recent weeks and months we have been accustomed to frequent press coverage of new outbreaks of avian influenza. the latest outbreak was confirmed today in a turkey farm in saxony. we have been able to follow the disease’s development on maps as we have seen it spreading from one country to another. we are all affected either directly or indirectly. we – and in particular the poultry sector – are faced with a real crisis situation, which requires a swift response. that is why we are here tonight. i would therefore, first of all, like to thank the european parliament for having accepted the commission’s request for urgent procedure. i am especially grateful to the chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, joseph daul, as well as to the rest of the committee for their rapid contribution and opinion on the commission proposal. that is a clear testimony that when there is a need for us to act fast, we can do so. the many cases of avian influenza in the european union have not left us unaffected. even though mainly wild birds have been the victims of avian flu, it has already had a strong negative impact on european consumption of poultry in many member states. the impact on prices has varied from country to country, but in general prices have been under pressure and have in some cases fallen significantly. as a result, the poultry meat market faces an exceptionally serious situation and many in the poultry sector are in severe difficulties. we have already acted. since the beginning of the crisis last autumn, the commission has made use of export refunds in order to support the market. but the effects of those measures have been limited, not least as we have been faced with import restrictions on our exports into many third countries. it is clear that we cannot handle the poultry meat crisis effectively on the basis of export refunds alone. member states have also announced or taken initiatives with regard to the possibility of using state aid. there is a broad range of support possibilities via state aid, such as rescue and restructuring aid for farmers running into difficulties. those rules are designed to give quick, effective support to those in the sector who are really in need. we will, in the light of the crisis, examine any proposal as quickly as possible, taking into account both the need for rapid help and the need to avoid distortion of competition. however, we also need to consider alternative measures at eu level. and therefore we have found ourselves hampered by the existing legislation. our current cmo provides for measures that would allow special market support in cases where veterinary restrictions have been imposed. the current scope of our cmo, however, does not allow the commission to act in response to a crisis that is sparked by a lack of consumer confidence. and that is exactly the situation we are in today. therefore the existing legal framework has to be changed in order to provide the legal basis for new market support measures for the sector. we are therefore proposing to extend the existing exceptional market support as laid down in article 14 of the cmo in order to include support measures in cases where serious market disturbances are caused by consumer reaction to public health or animal health risks. our proposal also entails a sharing of the financial burden between member states and the community budget and would only be introduced upon a request from the member states. we are now taking a first step. we are filling the legal gap. once our proposal is finally adopted, member states will have to submit their proposals for practical steps that will fit their specific situation. we believe that will allow the best possible flexibility, and therefore the most efficient response to the current crisis and to future similar situations, if they were to arise. there is no time to waste. thanks to the european parliament’s constructive stance and the rapid procedure it has chosen via which to consider this proposal, we should now be able to ensure a final adoption in the council in the coming weeks. this will be an important step towards delivering those measures that our poultry sector is so desperately asking for.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all i would like to say that the commission's response to avian influenza has been methodical, calm and effective. unfortunately, however, the lack of consumer information and awareness, the communication policy and the role of the media, and the lack of direct national measures, especially controls, have contributed to the loss of consumer confidence, which in many cases appears to be irreversible for a long time. the impact in europe so far is a 35% reduction in poultry and egg consumption with significant variations from member state to member state. in greece, consumption has fallen by 65% in the last ten months, and stocks of 20,000 tonnes have been accumulated, while in france, the largest poultry producer, stocks are 25,000 tonnes. the commission and the national governments must take immediate action and the market crisis must be tackled with the most effective economic and social measures for poultry farms and hatcheries. the effects of the poultry crisis, as my colleague mr parish has said, are also important for the cereals sector. for this reason, in addition to amending article 14 of the regulations on the functioning of the poultry and egg market, we propose: first, 50% financing of emergency measures directly linked to health and veterinary measures; second, 100% financing from community resources in cases where the fall in consumption is due to a fall in consumer confidence; third, promotion of market measures, such as the granting of aid for storage facilities, for a period necessary to stabilise the market; and, finally, aid for the withdrawal of stocks and compensation for the destruction of eggs and poultry. these measures will balance market supply with demand. i would like to stress the commissioner's point that at national level, authorized state aid should be given to poultry producers and to poultry farmers as small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. they are already late, and as a result many businesses are in danger of closing. the social problems in greece will be many, since 15,000 people are employed. mr president, commissioner, if i may put it in a nutshell, if governments and the commission are slow to take effective measures and interventions, the avian flu will turn into the flu of the workers.
mr president, the fight against corruption is indeed a fight for peace, democracy, the fight against poverty and the consolidation of civil society in developing countries. the relationship between democracy and economic development in developing countries has been demonstrated and confirmed better than anyone else in the work of amartya sen, a great intellectual and nobel prize winner in economics. it is truly astonishing that the fight against corruption has often been a taboo subject in the international community and in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report on the implementation of the millennium development goals was negative. but no one talked about what role corruption played in this failure. i believe that the international community must set a new development goal: democratic governance and the fight against corruption. in conclusion, i would add that the european union, and in particular the european commission, must put in place strict mechanisms of selectivity in the new development strategy it has drawn up for africa. the european union must work with the un, international financial organisations and non-governmental organisations to tackle this phenomenon together, with particular emphasis on strengthening civil society and independent media.
in writing. the kke votes against the joint resolution of the political groups of the people's party, socialists and greens and expresses its solidarity with the people of belarus. it is a gross interference in the internal affairs of an independent country, it violates every concept of international law, it amounts to a declaration of war against a people resisting imperialist barbarity. the european parliament, elected by 30% of the eu's citizens, is trying to teach lessons in democracy to a people who participated in the elections with 93% and elected the president with 80%! the european council bans the entry of president-elect lukashenko, the european parliament takes under its protection and generously funds milinkevich, who is presented as a representative of the people, but despite the stack of silverware he received, he gathered in the elections the "amazing" percentage of 6% and in the "impressive demonstrations" 2000 funded "protesters"! - what ? the furious reactions of the political representatives of imperialism explain why the abundant funding and interventions did not produce "orange", "pink", "green" revolutions. after the proud response of the people of belarus, they are trying to isolate the country and its people with terror, slander and fascist sanctions. it is necessary for the workers, the popular movement, to condemn the imperialist plans, to support the struggle and its right to decide on the future and to choose its own path.
in writing. in a provocative manner, it disdains and does not recognise the results of the elections in belarus, while it considers the elections in ukraine, which were held in a climate of violence and fraud, with the communist party of ukraine as a particular target, to be 'democratic'. the murders of two communist party officials, the attacks on their offices, the cancellation of 200,000 voters in the luhansk region who did not vote, the fraud in crimea, have not been seen by the "international observers" and the eu and imperialist officials. of course, this did not happen because the reports on the "validity and democratic nature of the elections" were written before the elections. the eu and the european parliament consider as democratic those countries which submit to imperialism, the occupation governments such as iraq and afghanistan and the political forces which sell out the interests of the workers and their countries to capital. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment. the 'operation democracy' promoted by the us and the eu through transnational and international organisations is essentially the imposition of capitalism and the attachment of countries to the imperialist chariot. the political forces which support, condone or tolerate this policy are co-responsible and complicit with the people.
mr president, we are saddened by the violence in the south-east of turkey and appalled by the killing of soldiers and innocent civilians in turkey. however, this should not lead us to conclude that this is the only problem in turkey: there is a major problem with regard to the rights of the kurds, something that in today's debate should not be swept under the carpet. turkey has chosen a perspective: the european perspective. and thanks to this perspective, we have in recent years made some progress on the human rights of the kurds, who a few years ago were not even recognized as existing. but this march must not stop. the uncontrolled military interventions of recent times must not deprive the kurds of the rights they must have if turkey is to become a member of the european union, the rights, that is, which are also enjoyed by citizens of european states. prime minister erdogan recently stated that 'we will not back down from our goal of democracy and development. we will introduce greater freedoms, more democracy, welfare, rights and justice.' the statement is correct, but this must not only be stated but also put into practice. and measures are needed on three levels: firstly, rights, secondly, economic and social policy, and thirdly, the limitation of the army, which is an uncontrollable force. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. and if turkey respects its commitments in this area and in all the other areas, that is, what the european union has asked it to do, that will be to the benefit of the kurds and all the people of turkey. turkey must not hesitate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, we are following with particular concern the resurgence of violence and acts of terrorism by the turkish army and the pkk. i believe that the message that should come out of our debate today is a message of condemnation of the terrorist acts against innocent civilians in istanbul and other cities and of the military violence of the turkish repressive forces against the kurdish population. the forces pushing for war and military domination at all costs bear responsibility for the situation in southeastern turkey. the deep state and the military in turkey find in the pkk's actions a convenient pretext for continuing to intervene in political life, trying to determine the terms of a solution to the kurdish problem. on the other hand, the pkk exploits the serious economic and social problems of underdevelopment and poverty to fuel its cycle of violence and bloodshed. it is a fact, and it would be a political mistake to dismiss it, that turkey's european perspective has opened the way to reforms by the erdoğan government. the turkish government has not yet taken any action to address the kurdish problem, and it is not yet clear whether the turkish government will take any action to address it. we must consistently and resolutely support the cultural, linguistic and educational rights of the kurdish community; the european union is committed to the principle of the rule of law, and to the principle of the rule of law, and to the principle of the rule of law. the turkish political leadership and the erdoğan government have a responsibility to move forward with boldness and determination in completing the reforms and the smooth political, economic and social integration of the kurdish people. a strategy for a peaceful settlement requires dialogue between the two sides. it implies the renunciation, on both sides, of the logic of military conflict and of a solution. the kurdish problem will not be solved by means of repression and violence but by means of democratic dialogue, development and the flourishing of the rights of the kurdish people. the european union has its own political responsibility for formulating a comprehensive strategy on the kurdish problem in turkey: - to remain a firm and consistent supporter of the european perspective, while at the same time monitoring, without discount or pretension, the implementation of turkey's obligations; - to reaffirm its support for the territorial integrity and unity of the turkish state and to condemn the separatist aims of the pkk's dead-end strategy; - to take initiatives to launch a democratic dialogue on the political settlement of the kurdish question and to ensure the role and rights of the kurdish community in the institutions and society of turkey. finally, the european union, in cooperation with turkish and kurdish actors, should contribute to the formulation and implementation of economic and social reconstruction programmes to combat poverty and underdevelopment, to strengthen institutions and civil society and to support democratic moderate political forces in the regions of south-eastern turkey.
mr president, we must respect the authorities of each country. regardless of whether this country is friendly, less friendly or more friendly, this country has decided on a name. we can only respect the name of this country. the other - i think everyone understands this - is not democratic, it is a gross interference in the internal affairs of a country. whatever this country wishes to be called, we must respect it.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, today is the day of remembrance for the dam, the day of the chernobyl accident. we still don't know how many people died. we don't know how many people we have to commemorate today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. people are still dying. cesium has a 35-year cycle. it has been 20 years, which means that for another 15 years the cancer will be implanted in the human body. deaths from thyroid cancer have increased a hundredfold. we have too many deaths from leukemia and the evil does not stop here but will continue for many years. they are already preparing a new "framework" to cover chernobyl. at one point, they've poured 200 meters of concrete and there's still a leak. so they're going to make a steel roof that will cost many billions of euros, in a country where the pension is only 20 euros a month, and that for 100 years. the deadly radioactive material will be there for 100,000 years. to give you a sense of how much time we are talking about, it is only 2,000 years since christ's death and only 5,000 years since noah's flood. so imagine how many thousands of years this will be active. what conclusions should we draw? that this is too dangerous while nuclear power plants are proliferating. the commissioner said that bulgaria's commitment was to close koslodui. yes, that is a commitment, but he did not tell us that a few kilometres away, bulgaria is already building another nuclear plant which is only 50 kilometres from the second largest city in greece and less, in a straight line, than 1000 kilometres from rome. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to do this, but i am saying that it should be the only one to be able to do it. we must all here - we are one of the largest parliaments in the world - find the courage to vote, and to speak and to argue against nuclear weapons. we should call for a nuclear disarmament. turkey is already building three nuclear power stations and i do not want to say that the turkish and bulgarian technicians are inferior to the soviets who, if anything, were the first instructors and yet they had the accident. but if a terrorist fires a missile at such a factory, do you realize what the damage will be? the potential damage to the economic benefit that nuclear power plants can bring to the energy problem is very great. we must weigh the evils and take meaningful initiatives. i must also tell you the following tragedy: this year greece does not have enough soldiers. and you know why? because we had 3,500 abortions right after chernobyl and we lost a lot of kids that we could have had in the military today. we must therefore be very careful about our future, the future of our children, the future of future generations. it takes courage to be a democracy.
mr president, for all those who are worried and talking about motives and criteria, i want to say that there is no cause for concern. the 'transatlantic friend' has ensured that both the romanians and the bulgarians join the european union in good time. i hate to lie, but the driver of the european car is in the back seat. bulgaria was the first country to assist america in the iraq war and now it is again the first country willing to join the new adventure leading to iran. so let's look at the parallels: - firstly, the poorest regions of the countries of europe which are covered today by the cohesion fund will not be covered tomorrow because two more poor countries will be added to it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's structural funds are used to finance the structural funds, and i would like to ask the commission to take this into account when it is preparing the next financial perspective. so protect the greek worker who has been living in europe for 25 years and is going to lose his job.
mr president, the european commission has the institutional and political responsibility to present the progress reports on 16 may in the most objective and fair manner, without discounting and on the basis of the same political and economic criteria as with the other candidate countries. bulgaria and romania - and this should be particularly noted - have made considerable efforts and have achieved significant political and economic reforms. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. today, from our debate in the plenary, we should show that our firm objective remains the accession of bulgaria and romania on 1 january 2007. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the people of the community. i believe that respect for and implementation of the community acquis in the field of nuclear safety must be a key priority for the european commission in the coming period.
the report and the commission's strategic communication on a strengthened partnership between the european union and latin america serve the objectives of european capital to acquire an even greater share of latin america by creating conditions for its unremitting action. the rest is nice talk. some are more honest. the conditions imposed by the resolution and the commission have nothing to do with equivalence and mutually beneficial relations. in fact, they call on the countries of latin america to adopt and implement the economic and political policy of the european union and even to accept its foreign policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no mention of the lifting of the illegal and unacceptable embargo of the united states against cuba. however, the popular and social movements of latin america, as well as the governments of a number of countries, have already denounced and are fighting against this policy proposed in the reports of the european union and the united states and are seeking other ways of equal and mutually beneficial relations between countries for the benefit of the peoples. we are joining them and the council is right to be concerned about the withdrawal of the andean community from venezuela: the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is a major player in the world economy.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the discharge for the european development funds, i would first like to say that these funds are important and valuable tools for promoting solidarity, prosperity in the world, peace, the principles of justice and respect for human rights. the committee on budgetary control shall examine the implementation of the budget of these funds and formulate its views on the best possible management with efficiency and transparency. as regards the sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth funds for the 2004 financial year, in the light of the court of auditors' report, the exchange of views we had with the commission and the commissioner himself, mr louis michel, we propose that the commission be granted a discharge. we also propose that the accounts of these funds be closed for the year 2004. the resolution proposed by our committee to the plenary underlines the importance of the european regional funds in the european union's contribution to the achievement of the millennium development goals, the main objective of which is the eradication of poverty. we are concerned that only 12 million euros (0.4% of the budget) is allocated to basic education and 74 million euros (only 2.7%) to basic health, despite the recommendations made by the european parliament in its resolution last year. it is very important to promote, through the european development funds, the principles of democratisation, good governance and equal opportunities in order to achieve the dual objective of sustainable development in the beneficiary countries and more efficient use of resources, as we are obliged to do by the european parliament as elected representatives of the european citizens. these objectives concern both the european institutions and the decentralised services in the acp countries benefiting from the funds and the national managing authorities and parliaments of these countries. another point to which we refer is that, as regards the funds managed by the european investment bank, which are not audited by the court of auditors or by the european parliament under the discharge procedure, we believe that transparency and efficiency should be improved if information is provided and data are indicated in the european investment bank reports on the european development funds. we also believe that the inclusion of these funds in the community budget will remove many of the complexities and costs of management and the implementation of the successive funds will help to accelerate their implementation and eliminate the associated democratic deficit. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it must be reduced by promoting flexible and more rapid action. finally, we want to increase the visibility of the european union's external action. the european citizens are proud of this policy of solidarity and the citizens of the third world want it, they need it. it is time for our political focus and effective methodology to be combined with better communication and visibility of our actions as stand-alone actions, but also in the context of international organisations, in the un or the world bank and other organisations.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr titley on his initiative in drawing up this report on a subject which brings europe closer to the citizen and, in fact, protects the most precious commodity which is life and health itself. the ecall system demonstrates how the european union can add value to the measures implemented by the member states to prevent and respond to both accidents and their multifaceted consequences. when we consider, as has been said, that this system could save about 2,500 lives a year, reduce the severity of injuries and help save billions of euros in all the costs of consequences. several member states have signed the memorandum of understanding, as the rapporteur tells us, and i am glad that my country, greece, is among them, but cooperation must be extended to the whole of the european union by 2009 to have a single emergency number and, indeed, with the possibility of tracing the location of the accident. but to implement this ambitious but very human project effectively, we need real support - as my colleagues have said - from the automobile industry, from the citizens themselves and from the public services for a good cooperation in terms of the financial burden of implementing this project, but also cooperation with the rescue services, emergency services and, of course, with all the systems, such as the galileo system: this means that we can use all the technology and achievements of the european union, not only for economic reasons, in the broadest sense, but also for issues that affect the life of the citizen.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of multilingualism, particularly in an enlarged europe, is now more important than ever. it is essential that european citizens have the necessary knowledge and skills to enable effective communication and facilitate mutual understanding. learning just one lingua franca is not enough. it is not, however, a reflection of european identity. the commission proposal follows up the decision of the european council in barcelona in march 2002, where the heads of state or government called for improving the acquisition of basic skills by teaching at an early age at least two foreign languages. they also called for the introduction of a common language proficiency index, in other words, a language test which would objectively measure citizens' knowledge of foreign languages. three years later, the commission proposes the creation of a european language proficiency index, common to all member states, with a high level of accuracy and reliability. the aim of the index will be to measure the proficiency of european citizens in foreign languages in four language skills: reading, comprehension, speaking and writing. the index will record language proficiency at each of the 6 levels of the common european framework of reference for languages of the council of europe. this common european reference framework is widely accepted and is already in use in many of the member states. i agree with the commission that the test of language proficiency should be carried out in the five most widely taught languages of the european union at an early stage. the inclusion of polish as a sixth language in the first phase will be decided by the budget, if that is possible. a eurobarometer survey published this week shows that english, with 38%, french with 14%, german also with 14%, spanish with 6% and italian with 3% are the 5 most popular languages in the european union chosen as foreign languages by european citizens however, i stress in the report that it is important at a later stage to extend this test to a wider range of languages of the european union. i would like to point out that non-community, minority and regional languages are not covered by this index. but they can be integrated into the strategy for multilingualism, on which the european parliament is preparing a report, and to which they are more suited in terms of content. i therefore do not agree with amendments nos 1 and 2, since they do not concern this report, do not contribute to the coherence of the text and do not correspond to the objectives of the language skills index. the language proficiency index is a technical instrument to be funded under an existing programme, namely the 'lifelong learning' programme, whose main objective is to substantially increase the mobility of citizens, workers or students in the european union. it is also worth noting that, according to recent data, although the proportion of primary school pupils learning a foreign language is increasing, the number of languages to be learned is unfortunately decreasing. in many countries, learning a foreign language tends to mean only learning english. the index can also be used to draw policy conclusions at european and national level. despite the commission's involvement in the process, member states should be actively involved in the implementation and development of the index, as they are the only ones who can provide further information on various factors affecting language proficiency, such as television, family environment, number of teaching hours, teaching experience and others. in general, the european language proficiency index is seen as a very important tool for collecting reliable data on the language skills of europeans, especially young people. it will also allow for comparison of language policies between member states, facilitating the identification and exchange of good practice to give a new impetus to such language teaching. mr president, commissioner, the knowledge of at least two foreign languages must be part of the basic skills and a representative element of the identity of european citizens living, studying, working and, in general, moving around the european union. let us not forget that 2006 is the 'european year of mobility', so i think it provides us with a very important opportunity to highlight the importance of the skills of european citizens and to provide young people with an incentive to give greater importance and attention to learning foreign languages. we look forward with great interest to the council's decisions on the language proficiency index on 18 may. i hope that the council will respond positively and understand its obligation to take account of the parameters and the evaluation of the european parliament's overall effort. in conclusion, i cannot help but mention the living example of multilingualism and its importance in this room: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
mrs frassoni, this is the second time today and i think it's off the agenda. in any case, we listened to you with great sympathy. - after the vote: chairman. the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.15 p.m.)
mr president, this may marks 61 years since the end of hitler's brutality against europeans and jews. but it is also 87 years since the brutality of the genocide of the pontic by kemal ataturk. on may 19, 1919, he entered the city and slaughtered 490,000 people. the black sea turned red. observers of the time said that there were squares with the heads of innocent people. with one difference, that post-hitler germany apologized. turkey has never apologized. i am not talking about the genocide of the pontic peoples, nor the genocide of the armenians. on the contrary, the day before yesterday he threatened the french parliament for its decision on the armenian genocide, and three days ago in vienna mr erdogan squeezed the greek prime minister because we want to recognize the pontian genocide. the people who forget history, live it again. i therefore want the european parliament to take the initiative of recognising the memory of the pontian genocide.
mr president, a study published on 8 may by the ngo save the children reveals that minors are being sexually exploited in the refugee camps in liberia, by perpetrators including members of humanitarian organisations and soldiers of the multinational peacekeeping forces. the european parliament should first of all be officially informed by the un of the scale of these tragic events which are undermining any notion of humanitarian aid, and condemn politically and legally the behaviour of these soldiers. and that's because, as the data from the study shows, they've acquired the psychology and behavior of mercenaries. behavior that is beyond any conceivable human altruistic help. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the children of the poorest countries are not deprived of their basic human rights, and that the children of the poorest countries are not deprived of their basic human rights.
mr president, in the process of renewing interest in the ratification of a european constitutional treaty, it might be useful to amend the text to support institutions which have created and highlighted the particular character of european culture and the european economy. today we are celebrating the international day of families and we find that the great majority of european women and men continue to create families, and to support and be supported by the institution of the family. let's not be swayed by minorities. while family policy should remain a matter for the member states, the integration of the family dimension into the various community policies will help to strengthen social cohesion and increase competitiveness, alleviating socioeconomic problems such as unemployment, poverty and reduced productivity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the european union's development.
mr president, i begin with a statement made by all the colleagues who have spoken before: in many areas, eel stocks have been reduced by up to 90%. in many rivers, the breeding stock of the ascending eel has declined by over 95%. we are heading for an ecological disaster. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the objective was set: the escape of adult eels shall be at least 40%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen are not caught by the fishermen themselves. we need the fishermen because they know the subject better than anyone else, and at the same time we need their consent and cooperation to make the measures more effective. i was very happy to hear - and this was acknowledged by many - that the fishermen are not the only ones to blame for the current situation. it is the pollution, it is the various engineering projects, it is a host of other factors. but what matters is the final conclusion on the matter. the specificities of each member state and the differences between free and controlled fishing must also be taken into account. in conclusion, i would like to point out, and we must think about, how we are going to deal with the uncontrolled and cumulative export of glass algae to third countries, because if we let them go free, at the current rate, they will empty our waters of algae and we will not be able to supply them to the east anyway.
mr president, we are talking about the future of europe! what europe ? the one whose borders we don't know? who in this room knows the borders of europe? none of us! what europe ? the one that has no foreign policy, but is run and operated by the americans? what europe ? the one that doesn't have its own army and has a european army with an american commander-in-chief like nato? what europe ? the one that doesn't have an energy policy. we're whistling at putin for gas and getting involved in the trouble the americans want in the gulf so we don't have cheap oil? what europe ? the one that doesn't have enough democracy? tell me about a unified electoral system! otherwise you get elected, otherwise i get elected, otherwise somebody else gets elected. what europe ? the one which cannot have a single referendum because in other countries it is the parliaments that are responsible and in other countries it is the people? we are not, therefore, a europe with a future. because a country, a nation, a union, to have a future, it must know what it is and where it wants to go. but fortunately, yesterday we were given lessons in patriotism and culture by an indian, mr morales! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and it was a great day for parliament to hear this fiery patriot.
mr president, the time has finally come, one year after the 'no' votes in france and the netherlands and the 'yes' votes in the majority of the member states and citizens of europe, to finally begin to 'de-demonise' the euro-constitution and to take europe forward. we decided then - and we were right - that after the 'no's' we should focus the debate more on the atmosphere surrounding the euro-constitution, that is, on the context, and leave the text a little to one side. but, unfortunately, we have barely spoken about the atmosphere and instead let a literature grow that the problem was really in the text. but if we look at the area of freedom, justice and security, for example, we see that in the last year it is more the context that is the problem than the text. the european constitution thus shields the democratic nature of the european union by giving parliament a role in co-deciding on most matters in the area of freedom and security. the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights demonstrates that we do not consider fundamental rights as a tail of the necessary protection of the security of citizens but as a central part of our policy. unlike the text, the context has become increasingly problematic over the past year: we have a series of laws that increase counterterrorism cooperation. the council also stressed that the much-needed framework decision on data protection in the third pillar would not be adopted by the end of 2006. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe needs leaders today, not evasions.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, honourable members, thank you all for your contributions as well as your criticism. i think it will help in the ongoing discussion. when i entered politics many years ago, i learnt that there were three basic tasks for any political party or organisation. the first: to be able to describe reality, so that people will recognise reality as it is and agree that is the correct way to describe the world in which they live. the second task is to be able to put forward a vision, to say ‘this is where we want to go, that is what we want to achieve one day’. and, thirdly, to be able to change reality, to implement or enforce the changes that we want to achieve. i think that is still valid. it is exactly the commission’s line. we have a plan. we are willing to show leadership, first of all by being able to describe the reality we live in. indeed, we have tried to help by describing what we have heard through our plan d activities and from the member states and all the institutions involved in these activities, including visits to pubs. i was in london last friday to listen to the fears the british people expressed about the european union. secondly, we have been repeating that we want solidarity, prosperity and security, the values that we have set out in our treaties. thirdly, we have been showing the way, by changing the reality of the world in which we live. that is the way to engage people and to prove the added value of the european union: by working together to change people’s everyday lives. this we know from the eurobarometer surveys and from all our contacts. that is what people expect from us. that is how we can come back and approach the constitutional issues, because that is the way to prove that we have to change the way we take decisions. we must prove that we have to make the european union more open and democratic. we cannot stop that work now and say that we will just wait for a constitution. we have to do both things. we have to move in parallel on both those tracks. that is the only way to regain citizens’ trust. i feel a lot of frustration, as you do, at having lost a project of the kind the constitution represents. but the way to remedy that is not through personal attacks or attempts to engage only in bold rhetoric. there has been a lack of concrete suggestions as to what to do in france and the netherlands, where we have had a ‘no’ and where we have to engage with citizens again to regain their trust in any constitutional project. that is really what we ought to discuss. what kind of agenda can we establish to rebuild trust in those countries that are experiencing many problems? one idea was mentioned has my strong support. mr méndez de vigo suggested looking at the costs of a non-europe. i think that is an excellent idea and worth exploring. let us see if we can do that together and subsequently describe our findings. we have a number of examples to describe to people the costs of non-europe: energy policy and the fact that we do not have a foreign affairs minister, etc. it will make us less effective, less visible, less democratic and less open. we definitely have to end the blame game, because we are not alone in this: we need the member state governments. why should the swedish government, or any other government that has not yet ratified, engage in a project or stick their necks out in a situation where they see that there is no solution? nobody has presented a solution so far, but there are at least seven or eight different ideas on how to take this project forward. the commission’s idea is, therefore, to begin by proving the added value of the european project by changing reality and doing our best to respond to citizens’ concerns. whether it is energy policy, tackling unemployment or fighting crime and terrorism, we have to take action. meanwhile, we should also point out that a constitutional settlement would help us greatly to act even more effectively. at the same time, we must engage with governments to ensure that we sign up to the things we want to see realised in the future and that we share the same values and ideas for the future. that is a step towards finding a constitutional settlement. we do not want a two-speed europe or core groups. we believe that member states should act in unison and that we should hold the european project together. this means moving on both these tracks at the same time. we have demonstrated here that we have heard what people have told us regarding the priorities, and i think you agree with me. the first issues people raise when we speak to them in pubs, universities or elsewhere are the tangible issues. they want policies to be settled; they want us to take action on things that affect their everyday lives. that is what they expect from us. this also makes it easier to return to the constitutional issues. we can definitely follow up the idea of describing the costs of non-europe. we should also establish a timetable for a constitutional settlement. that is why we pointed to the opportunity next year, when we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome, for member states to agree on the way forward. this is our response to citizens’ concerns. being able to explain a citizens’ agenda – the people’s priorities – is a step forward. mr kirkhope is not here, but let me say that the fight against terrorism is a very important argument. are we really convinced that national vetoes should remain? the european evidence warrant is one example, and it is still blocked in the council. this is a very important proposal that would help our law-enforcement authorities to do their work more effectively. we will move forward with these proposals. the constitution is not dead. the estonians explained that they ratified it, not because they think that this issue will be solved immediately, but as a political statement. that was their purpose. however, they also realise that we have to look for solutions that satisfy both the french and the dutch people and the other member states, including those who said ‘yes’. it is not that easy to tell those countries that they have to do it again because we have made some changes. today we see no immediate solutions to this problem, but we will continue to show leadership on the constitutional issues as well as changing people’s reality and will set a policy agenda, a citizens’ agenda. (applause)
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i present to you today the proposal for a regulation on the marco polo ii programme. this regulation follows on from marco polo i, adopted in 2003, with the same objectives. the new programme, like the old one, aims to reduce congestion on the road network, improve the environmental performance of the transport system, and strengthen intermodal transport to help build an efficient and sustainable transport system. the programme runs from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2013. the project will have a budget of €400 million, which is more than that of marco polo i. the structure of this programme is based on the granting of direct subsidies to airlines for the launch of intermodal services. it is the most efficient way of securing public funding. this programme was designed in the impact study so that one euro of grant for marco polo ii generates more than €6 in social and environmental benefits for society. while building on the mechanisms of the current programme, the regulation provides for two new types of action: those aimed at motorways of the sea and those aimed at traffic avoidance. these actions should help to reduce the volume of international road freight to meet a very high expectation of our citizens. the marco polo ii programme incorporates the concept of motorways of the sea, which was introduced in the transeuropean networks. it proposes appropriate targets for services linked to these motorways of the sea. calls for proposals are under way between germany and finland and between france and spain. actions under motorways of the sea are intended to limit road traffic in a given corridor. this clearly visible community added value benefits the european citizen and as such deserves a community contribution based on projects developed by consortia of shippers, transport operators and infrastructure providers. it is time to include the manufacturing and logistics sector more actively in a coherent strategy for sustainable development. that is why the commission has also planned measures to prevent trafficking. industry has already taken up this problem to streamline its supply chains and reduce distribution and transport costs. thus, there is a compatibility of interests between measures to increase the efficiency of industry and the political will to reduce the negative effects of transport by simply avoiding it. marco polo ii also extends the scope of the programme to all the european union's neighbours. today europe, and not just the union of 25 member states, will be at the forefront of an integrated transport market. our eastern neighbours, russia, belarus, ukraine, the balkans and the mediterranean region, form part of a large integrated market for transport services. production and supply chain characteristics do not stop at the borders of the eu-25. the council reached a partial general approach on 21 april 2005. i am glad that the rapporteur and the committee on transport of this parliament have sought to reach agreement at first reading. this constructive approach adopted by the two institutions should make it possible to adopt the regulation rapidly and launch the first call for tenders under marco polo ii. i thank you, mr rack, and the committee on transport and tourism which you chair. the compromise reached calls for four points: support for small and medium-sized enterprises, the thresholds for financing the various measures, the possible impact of measures to avoid traffic and special attention to sensitive and metropolitan areas. parliament has rightly pointed out the difficulties faced by small and mediumsized enterprises in accessing this programme. the new text will make it easier for them to do just that. i thank mr rack for making this point. the minimum funding thresholds for the various types of action have been reduced compared with those proposed by the commission. and the commission will be considering how to deal with the resulting increase in evaluation and monitoring work. the fear of a potential negative effect of anti-trafficking measures on employment and cohesion in certain regions has, i believe, been satisfactorily addressed. the new regulation also pays greater attention to sensitive and metropolitan areas. i would like to conclude, mr president, by apologizing for the length of the explanation of this proposal. i am again pleased that parliament has taken a very constructive approach to this report, which i believe has now resulted in a satisfactory text. i thank you and i thank in particular the rapporteur and the committee on transport and tourism.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a successful development of the european union's transport policy that we are discussing today the marco polo ii programme, which is intended to promote alternative and environmentally friendly modes of transport, which will contribute to the competitiveness of our economy and at the same time to the quality of our environment and our lives. the new marco polo ii programme offers many opportunities in this direction. it extends to our entire neighbourhood, including russia and our mediterranean partners, it enables maritime transport by creating a separate category of activities, the maritime arteries, and it promotes the rationalisation of international transport. we thank you, commissioner, for the determination with which you have worked on the conception and structure of the programme. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr rack, because his proposals reinforce the added value of the programme for the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the european union and its neighbours. it is a matter of the committee on transport and tourism, which has expressed its interest in this matter on several occasions. mr rack also works to promote and strengthen the balance between transport capacity, cost reduction, pollution and road traffic, thus contributing to the objective of drastically reducing accidents, which is a primary objective of the european union. i am convinced that the exploitation of the sea arteries will be a dynamic element in our planning and the effectiveness of our objectives. the sea is a power and a resource which has not yet been exploited by our policy and we must work towards that. in conclusion, i thank the rapporteur for his good handling and negotiations with the council which have made it possible to have an acceptable text, which we believe will be implemented quickly.
mr president, commissioner, road freight transport in europe has grown very much in recent decades and will increase by more than 60% by 2013. the number is huge! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the way to halt this rapid growth in road transport and limit its negative consequences is to develop alternative modes of transport and in particular to strengthen short sea transport by creating sea arteries as well as rail and inland waterway transport. but at the same time, it must be combined with the harmonization of the networks of the countries bordering the european union, because a large part of the burden comes from there. the marco polo programme can help in this direction by financing the appropriate actions to prevent the risk of a collapse of our road transport system. of course, as in other programmes, the budget for the next period 2007-2013 is ultimately smaller than what we had proposed. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr rack, on his report.
mr president, i should like to begin by expressing my appreciation to the european commission for the valuable work it has presented to us today. the accession of bulgaria and romania does not raise any political, economic or cultural geographical issues for the european union. there are certainly shortcomings in institutional and administrative adjustment, particularly in areas related to the european area of freedom, security and justice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is inherent in and guides the relationship between the european union and a member state. the crucial question, in my view, is the cost-benefit balance for the european union in the event of postponement of accession. i believe that there will be a cost to the very credibility of the european union. she'll confess to a lack of assimilation skills on her part. the european union must not send a negative message of postponement to the people of bulgaria and romania, just a few months before accession. the accession of the two countries will enhance the homogenisation of the economic area of south-east europe and at the same time encourage the process of political and economic convergence of the western balkans on the path towards their integration into the union. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. the message to bulgaria and romania is to step up the regulatory work in the time that remains. in so far as european governance, european multi-level governance, affects national integration or de-unification, we have only one choice: the creative convergence of views that will enable the transition from the european union of 25 to that of 27. the course is politically predetermined. let us also make it legally mature by 1 january 2007.
i believe that the commission's assessment report on bulgaria and romania presented to us today is the most objective and fair account of the serious progress made by these two countries - romania and bulgaria - in the implementation of the acquis communautaire in the last period. i believe that in this report the commission neither underestimates the progress nor overestimates the shortcomings of the two countries, and i believe, mr president, that this balanced presentation of the present situation in the two countries by the commission gives the european commission credibility in defending its enlargement strategy, which we must all defend, and also contributes constructively to the efforts of the two countries to complete the reforms. the commission's message today is, in my view, clear and unequivocal. it contains an incentive and a warning: the incentive of accession on 1.1.2007 according to the timetable and the warning that this objective will be achieved if the two countries intensify their efforts in accordance with the final report to be presented by the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. yes, we do that and we impress on our trading partners the need to correct this situation. we believe that they are in a position to submit substantially revised offers concerning financial services by july this year. we will continue to insist on it but, as you know, trade negotiations are bilateral and plurilateral negotiations: we need to receive this offer from them and we are trying hard to put pressure on them to make such offers.
member of the commission. we are asking the indian authorities to improve access to these services and i hope they will comply with our request.
will the european commission step up pressure on emerging economies and advanced developing countries to open up their markets to services? this is the central question and i believe that the european union should be governed by the symmetry between the opening of the union's markets in the agricultural sector, which has already been achieved, on the one hand, and the corresponding opening of other countries' markets in the services sector in general, on the other. this should also apply to market access for non-agricultural products. without these conditions, the doha round will not have a symmetrical effect. there will be no balance in terms of its outcome.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs roth-behrendt, on her excellent work and to wish her the opportunity to be with us soon to continue our very good cooperation. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. my group cannot support these two amendments because we believe that the ban on the use of animal protein, even for young ruminants, should remain in place for two reasons. the first reason is that we must be against the phenomena of cannibalism, we are talking here about vegetarians who eat animal protein. the second reason is because we are not fully convinced that the risks associated with this particular diet are eliminated with the risks of spongiform encephalopathy. i remind you that years ago there was no link between the occurrence of spongiform encephalopathy and sheep and goats. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we say yes, with the exception of the two amendments, 41 and 48.
the european council's compromise on the financial perspective, mr president, was in line with the needs of the peoples of europe and the objectives of the european union. the problem is that the 1% doctrine is unfortunately still in force, and that is why the budget of the enlarged union of 25 member states is as tight as that of the union of 15. parliament's negotiations have brought about a marginal improvement which, although far from the union's actual budgetary needs, ensures a minimum level of continuity in the financing of community policies. it is clear, however, that - in the context set up by the governments from the outset - the rationale prevailing in the council is short-term, restrictive, accounting and management. the question that is being asked today therefore goes beyond the debate on the future budget. it is a question of europe's own credibility vis-à-vis its citizens. in other words, if the european union continues to set objectives without actually providing the means and political will to achieve them, then the lack of trust with the citizens will only grow. today we need a different european strategy, one that effectively promotes growth, employment, solidarity and social cohesion without discrimination but with a perspective.
mr president, mr böge deserves warm congratulations on his offer. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use and the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european agency for medicinal products for human use is properly functioning. the böge report also contributes to improving the quality of budget implementation: internal control, the possibility of transferring appropriations from the flexibility instrument and legislative flexibility. but most importantly, we secured the 2009 revision by our own full participation in the revision process. the need for a new own resources structure will also be the subject of renewed attention in 2009 in order to find new economic fuel for accelerating the development of union policies. i am referring in particular to the need to implement the lisbon strategy and to that aspect of the lisbon strategy, where, in the field of research and innovation, the prime ministers promised a great deal but delivered very little to the european citizen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but, mr president, we have also achieved something else, thanks to our systematic work together in the committee on budgets. we have succeeded, through the sea of the 1% difficulty, with the help of all our colleagues, in reversing the commission's constant tendency - which has always been favoured by the council - and in giving the european union at least some of the self-evident economic power it deserves.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament points out that the drastic 50% cut in the financial envelope from eur 740 to eur 400 million, as well as the criteria for selecting projects for the implementation of the marco polo ii programme for the period 2007-2013, are aimed at increasing the profits of big business and will not alleviate - much less solve - the serious problems associated with the large and increasing traffic congestion in domestic and international freight transport, which results both in an increase in accidents and in disastrous consequences for the environment. this choice is part of the eu's general anti-people policy, as specified for inland maritime transport in regulation 3577/92/eu, with the responsibility of the nd and pasok governments in our country in collusion with shipowners with painful consequences for workers in maritime and land transport, professionals, small and medium-sized farmers. for these reasons, the kke group does not support the report on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of the marco polo ii programme.
in writing. the prevention, control and eradication of the spread of the disease spongiform encephalopathy is necessary to protect public health and livestock. this is a way of ensuring consumer confidence in the food chain. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's health policy. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council at the next meeting of the european council. however, it does not avoid contradictions with certain amendments which open the door to the adoption of the use of animal proteins in ruminants, thus negating the positive points of the report. two measures and two weights are also used to allow the export to third countries of certain processed animal proteins derived from non-ruminants, in order to save on destruction costs by using third countries for eu waste. this logic ignores and subordinates public health to profit. this is the dominant element of the capitalist system, after all, and that's why it's barbaric and inhuman. it is dangerous even for the food chain and for the public health of the peoples. we have every reason to fight to overthrow him.
in writing. recent fiscal developments in the eu show an increase in deficit and debt. however, there is no mention of the increase in the profits of the plutocracy and who benefits from this policy. nor are the figures for poverty and unemployment presented for the people, who are each time called upon to pay the price in order for capital to continue its profits and exploitation. the slow pace of structural reforms demanded by the unpopular lisbon strategy is cited as the cause of the debt and deficit. the measures proposed are therefore to increase retirement age, to introduce flexible working arrangements, to promote lifelong learning and to support enterprises. that is, measures and goals that want slave workers to work without rights to work, to retire, to basic human needs in order to increase the competitiveness and profits of european capital. that is why deficits and debts are being used as an alibi for new austerity programmes and the removal of gains that will bring new poverty, unemployment and uncertainty to the working people. these are the results of capitalist barbarism by eu policy and governments. so this policy is inhumane and must be reversed. this is the message of the struggle and the need for popular welfare.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, i wonder what human rights we are talking about when our economic policy is creating a highly class society. if we really want to ask questions about human rights, we will not do it in this room, but let's go to the toilets to see which women work there. it's not a relative of ours, but some respectable, poor women from north africa. so they're talking about human rights, who? those who exterminated, wiped out an entire race from the face of the earth. the redskins. who speaks of human rights? who have based their wealth on the natives of their colonies for many centuries. they're talking about human rights, who? those who, with a beer in the evening, enjoy the charms of a beautiful girl, weak and poor, from the former eastern bloc. they're talking about human rights, who? those who support and coexist with dictators who torture their own people in order to invade another country. or was it not like that in afghanistan and iraq? who are they ? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. who are they ? the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the european parliament will be very active in this area. well, i'm not ready to talk about human rights. my conscience forbids me with all that she sees around her happening, with all that we all allow to happen.
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, the ability to respond to threats to human rights and democracy is a necessary objective. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial perspective for the period 1994 to 1999 is based on the principle of the financial perspective, which is a legal instrument which is not subject to the council's approval. in the area of transparency and flexibility, transparency ensures that overlaps in the different activities, especially with the cfsp, are avoided, while flexibility allows for timely intervention and improves efficiency. i would like to conclude by saying that i certainly have no objection to the proposed indicative financial framework and i would like to state that through the annual budgetary procedure we will strive in the committee on budgets to maximise the efficiency of the stability instrument.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are all aware that the message we are sending today by discussing this matter in the european parliament to third countries, regardless of their relationship with the european union, is important. i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs, but especially mr szent-iványi, whose report i have dealt with most, both for his very cooperative approach throughout the procedure in the committee on foreign affairs and for the proposals he has put forward. the very fact that we have an agreement on mr iványi's report with each other in the european parliament, with the european commission and with the european council, is something i consider very important. it is also important that pre-accession assistance is given, of course, to the two candidate countries, croatia and turkey, but also to countries with a european perspective, such as the western balkan countries. finally, i am very pleased that we have resolved by agreement the serious, in my view, question of the legal basis of article 181. i think that the agreement reached, that parliament should be consulted, is important and i would like to believe that it will be implemented in the best possible way.
madam president, the commitment today by commissioner ferrero-waldner that the commission is ready to propose a separate financial instrument for the defence of democracy and human rights is already a positive development. we are waiting for the european commission's proposal, which will have its own legal basis. the commission's proposal must not, however, be made to the detriment of the european parliament's legislative powers, and in particular its powers in the budgetary field, particularly when we refer to matters relating to the european union's external policy. the european citizens, as we all know, are calling for the european parliament's powers to be strengthened, not weakened. i would like to point out to mrs ferrero-waldner that the new financial programme for democracy and human rights which she is going to submit should include, and this is particularly important and sensitive, the funding of rehabilitation centres for victims of torture within the european union or outside it. the european commission has been the main funder of these centres until now and therefore their continued operation is a basic humanitarian responsibility.
the president of the council. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission is currently preparing the technical draft of a proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base. the commission has set up a special working group to prepare this, following the informal meeting of the ecofin council in september 2004. on 5 april the commission presented to the council, the european parliament and the european economic and social committee a communication entitled 'progress to date and further steps towards a common consolidated assessment framework', in which it reports on progress to date, as the title indicates, and identifies areas where it needs political support and guidance for further technical work. at the informal council meeting in vienna on 7 april, at the invitation of the presidency, the ministers heard a first report from the commission on the state of technical preparations. at the end of the informal meeting, council president karlheinz grasser stated that the discussions had shown that there was a clear majority in favour of this tax base, which the ministers considered would lead to cost savings for businesses and simplification of national tax systems. the european commissioner responsible for taxation, lászló kovács, also said that while advocating a harmonised corporate tax base was a very difficult and delicate task, the ministers had had an informative exchange of views during the lunch. the commission will report to the council on the progress of the work on a regular basis. the presidency has scheduled a first exchange of views between the ministers on the commission's communication for the council meeting on 7 june this year. it expects the technical preparations to progress rapidly on the basis of the contributions received by the commission and the member states to the abovementioned working party. as the commissioner responsible, mr kovács, stated at the last informal council meeting, the question of how the annual programme should be implemented is likely to be on the agenda under the next council president. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i'm the deputy editor. madam president, mr president-in-office, has there been or will there be an impact study on the adoption of the single tax base?
mr president, we want to open up funding for new priorities. but the level of the preliminary draft budget with payment appropriations of no more than 0.99% unfortunately illustrates the obvious discrepancy between the challenges in the areas of research, innovation and competitiveness and the minimal margins allowed by the budget. however, growth and employment must be our main objective, to which the lisbon strategy must contribute in particular, with policies which must complement and adapt to the new dynamic environment brought about by globalisation and the interdependence of economies. i agree with elles' proposals to ensure that every euro is used to good effect, especially in view of the new nature of the challenges we have hitherto faced with bliss and without vision. i'm talking about the challenge of the emerging economic giants, and especially china and india. the commission's lax and 'unemotional' attitude to the preliminary draft, however, raises our concerns about the reduction in the level of assistance. the limited framework demonstrates our inability to agree on objectives and funding possibilities. the 0.99% payment for 2007, mr president, unfortunately brings to the surface the tragedy of the low margins for the fulfilment of our european vision. i wonder whether the next presidency will finally have the strength to go beyond and join us in our effort to overturn this perpetuating european financial golgotha. i hope so, mr president, but i doubt it.
the agenda includes the joint debate on the report by luis manuel capoulas santos, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on natural disasters (fires, drought and floods) - agricultural aspects (2005/2195 (ini)) (a6-0152/2006), the report by gerardo galeote quecedo, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on natural disasters (fires, drought and floods) - aspects of regional development (2005/2193 (ini)) (a6-0147/2006), the report by edrela estite, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and fisheries, on natural disasters (fires, drought and floods) - agricultural aspects (a6-0152/2006), the proposal by the european parliament to the council (com (2005) 0126 - c6-0132/2005), the proposal by the european parliament to the council (com (2005) 0106 - c6-0132/2005), the proposal by the commission to the council (com (2005) 0128 - c00-0132/2005), the proposal by the european parliament to the council (com (2005) 0128-0146 - c0128-024) and the proposal by the commission to the european parliament, on the environment, environment and rural development, natural disassociation, environment and rural development, natural disaspects,
mr president, at a time when euroscepticism is growing in some member states, i believe that the european union cannot remain indifferent to the problem of natural disasters, but also indifferent to the citizens affected by them. i think that its presence has added value in three areas: prevention, immediate repression and rehabilitation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to prevent flooding in the member states, including the introduction of a new system of river flooding, and the introduction of a new system of river flooding. in greece, for example, we have such a problem with the evros river which flows through bulgaria, turkey and greece. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. thirdly, the berend report deals with the problem of compensation for damage through the solidarity fund, which has been in existence - and rightly so - since 2002. i believe, however, that we must reduce the thresholds for the eligibility of actions, as mr berend rightly suggests, and widen the scope to include technological disasters, such as a major shipwreck, or the case of a flu pandemic, in order to provide the population with vaccines and deal with the issue adequately. the issues we are discussing in the berend report will go through the co-decision procedure and therefore parliament will fight to the end, but also on the issues of the galeote report i think parliament should not lower the flag. it is important for the citizens, it is a matter of their daily lives and it is worth fighting to the end, pressing the commission and the council to move in the direction we are asking for.
mr president, citizens who are affected by natural disasters, by nature itself, should not have to deal with the indifference of national and community governments or the absence of integrated support programmes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the policy of the states to deal effectively with the problem has, in principle, two phases: prevention and response. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will make a number of proposals in the future. i would like to make a few points: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a community-wide system of compensation for damage caused by natural disasters, the establishment of a community-wide system of compensation for damage caused by natural disasters, the establishment of a community-wide system of compensation for damage caused by natural disasters, the establishment of a community-wide system of compensation for damage caused by natural disasters, the establishment of a community-wide system of compensation for damage caused by natural disasters, the establishment of a community-wide system of compensation for damage caused by natural disasters, the establishment of a community-wide system of compensation for damage caused by natural disasters, and the establishment of a community-wide system of compensation for damage caused by natural disasters. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, i would like to stress that the state, through national and co-financed projects, must protect the property of citizens but must be criticized by all of us when it cannot protect the lives of citizens.
in writing. the report of the european parliament's foreign affairs committee on 'human rights in the world' cynically expresses the eu's imperialist policy. it is trying to present it as a global custodian and defender of human rights, an "exporter" of democracy to the world. the eu's respect for and commitment to human rights and democracy was experienced firsthand by the peoples of the former yugoslavia, afghanistan, iraq, palestine and elsewhere, who were massacred by the imperialists of the eu, the us and nato in the name of human rights. it uses human rights and their selective so-called protection as a pretext to give it the right to intervene in every corner of the planet. through the european initiative for democracy and human rights (eidhr) it funds "color revolutions", all kinds of compliant ngos to blackmail and undermine governments of countries that do not comply with its strategic ambitions. the report's references to poverty, the environment, labour rights, etc., are a challenge to the peoples who are suffering under imperialist domination and capitalist exploitation. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the economic situation in the community, which would be prepared to be submitted to the council and the european parliament.
in writing. agricultural and forestry production are closely linked to nature where they are constantly exposed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the farmers are compensated for the damage they have caused to the environment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. however, we cannot ignore the fact that the frequency of unpredictable natural phenomena and the risk to the viability of rural households are a consequence of the predatory exploitation of natural resources and the commercialisation of the environment, a policy which is the cause and which the eu unfortunately promotes with tragic consequences. if this logic of not addressing the cause but simply paying compensation continues, then in a short time the consequences of adverse weather events will be so great that those affected will be unable to be satisfied with compensation, even when it represents a significant proportion of community or national resources. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, i would like to express my warm congratulations to both mr brok and mrs mann for the creative contributions to the dialogue they have made to us today. as the relevant statistics, which i omit to mention for reasons of time, show, the economic relations between the european union and the united states are characterized by symmetry and strong interdependence. the crises that occasionally arise are, in my view, the outgrowth of the - so far - unsolved question of managing interdependence. interdependence is not just about the past, it is about new global economic and social challenges, including the so-called millennium goals. the eu and the us are committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective international framework for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to freedom of expression and the right to freedom of expression. the transition to a more harmonised bilateral regulatory environment. a barrier-free transatlantic market is a feasible goal, provided it is based on a new and unified regulatory architecture. the expansion and intensification of the areas of close cooperation between the european union and the united states is expected to cause a positive spillover, that is to say, to have a spillover effect on the whole of the problems that make up the challenges of the contemporary global agenda. i mention, among others, the promotion of common principles and values such as democracy, the rule of law, the defence of fundamental rights and freedoms, the broadening of the thematic scope of the world trade order, effective international environmental protection, the fight against terrorism and organised crime and the establishment of a new financial architecture. on the contrary, the breakdown of cohesion in eu-us relations will exacerbate international uncertainty and have adverse consequences for global cooperation, peace, stability and security, both political and economic. the conclusion of the doha round negotiations is, as commissioner mandelson said, a test and a test of this close relationship between the european union and the united states.
your honor, it is certain that if the sympathetic mr. brok had listened to the last lecture of his greatest living philosopher, chomsky would have written different things. chomsky said that america is dying of a lack of democracy. and there is indeed a lack of democracy and relationships. let me prove it to you. any american citizen can come anywhere in europe without a visa. can any european citizen go to america without a visa? i would like to remind you that when meps went to america to check on cia flights, the american mps refused to accept them. america doesn't sign the kyoto protocol and is poisoning the atmosphere. it is not affiliated to the international criminal court in the hague, but only sends judges. i do not accept that europe should be the train with an american engine and an american driver. this is our big mistake. we want a relationship of equals. we are not allowed to have a european army. we have nato with an american commander-in-chief. even our stock markets are following the dow jones. we don't have our own policy. we have the hegemony of america. we want to have a relationship of equality, not american dominance, which is damaging europe's path to more democracy.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i too would like to congratulate my colleague, mr helmuth markov, on his important report and also the commissioner, mr mandelson, on his important speech just now. it is undeniable that the development of international trade and the liberalization of international trade have made a decisive contribution to the reduction of poverty and the reduction of disparities between developed and developing countries. but as mr mandelson has rightly said, it is not a panacea. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. as the recent world bank study has shown, the unrestrained liberalization of international trade has led to the increase of poverty and the disruption of the productive fabric in the poorest countries of africa. the same, ladies and gentlemen, mr mandelson, is true within the european union: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment in the community. the european union should, in my view, contribute to the democratisation and strengthening of the multilateral trading system through the reform of the world trade organisation to the benefit of the poorest countries. it should also consistently support the achievement of the millennium development goals by 2015 and contribute to the successful conclusion of the doha round negotiations in the context of a balanced and mutually beneficial compromise. finally, the european union should continue to implement the important initiative 'everything but weapons'.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, the answer to the question whether or not i am satisfied with the final text we are voting on tomorrow is yes! yes, because compared to the past we have given priority to quick and simple procedures. we have put small and mediumsized enterprises at the heart of the programme. we have linked the funds to the structural funds in the best possible way. we have linked research and innovation in the best possible way. we have included and emphasised the cross-border dimension of innovation and entrepreneurship. we have stressed the need for high-quality services from the information and support centres for smes. we have clarified and clarified what innovative actions are. we have emphasized industrial and intellectual property. we have emphasized and demonstrated the importance of non-technological innovation alongside technological innovation. yes, because we've included an advisory body throughout the process of designing and implementing the program. the commission's role, although not in committee, is twofold and very important. firstly, because i hope it will ensure coherence between the sub-programmes so that the cip can actually function as one programme rather than three. secondly, because it will ensure the involvement of experts in innovation and the sectors promoted by the programme. the answer to the question whether or not i am satisfied with the course of competitiveness and innovation in europe is no, compared to our international competitors. no, because it's great to improve, but it's not enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. why do we not, for example, implement a bold public procurement policy for innovative smes? because, unlike the us, few companies see our innovation as a profitable investment. because, more generally, we lack a culture of innovation and a culture of entrepreneurship. conclusion: the cip is good! that's good. but innovation doesn't end there. in conclusion, i thank the austrian presidency and the commission for their excellent cooperation which resulted in the timely adoption of the programme. this is as soon as it's gonna get here.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the authors of the opinion for their work in highlighting all the aspects and possibilities of the year of intercultural dialogue. this initiative is directly linked to all the internal and external challenges facing the european union. the preservation and enhancement of europe's multicultural diversity is a key factor in its integration. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. the tradition of the european union, as well as our development objectives, require an open society of dialogue seeking common values with citizens of other countries in our member states on mutual understanding, mutual esteem and the mitigation of discrimination. on behalf of the committee on women's rights, i would like to stress the importance of working in this context to combat discrimination against women and to encourage their participation in all activities and initiatives of intercultural dialogue.
mr president, commissioner, it has been 20 centuries since it was declared that 'there is no slave or free man, no man or woman'. the protection of equal treatment between men and women, at least by law, is a cultural necessity; but even today, in the 21st century, we must insist not only on what the common european mind takes for granted, but also on modernising and simplifying the common legislation of the european union so that both new and future member states can enjoy the european acquis comfortably and the lisbon strategy can be achieved. it is also necessary to compare and analyse the negative aspects of the labour market development of men and women in order to identify the 'opportunities' that create inequalities. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment, i will always remember the reaction of the commission representative when she realised that - in addition to the summary of community legislation, and the case law of the european court of justice on equal pay, equal treatment in social security systems, equal treatment in vocational training, recruitment and promotion and the burden of proof of inequalities - we added equal treatment and equal opportunities in the context of parental leave. it took the exemplary methodology and persistence of mrs niebler, rapporteur for the committee on women's rights and gender equality, who improved the commission's text, combining the opinions of the other committees, but also reaching a compromise solution through informal tripartite negotiations in order to satisfy the wish of the european parliament and to pay attention to the harmonious combination of work and family. of course, it is not a question of family, it is a question of a private life that must be combined with work, as if we meant that men and women have excluded the possibility of creating and maintaining a family from their private life. the compromise amendment on the review of parental leave, in the context of the new possibilities offered by the roadmap for women's rights, certainly gives hope, together with a new pact for equality, and i hope that mrs niebler's children, and the children of all of us, will live in a society of equality.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank mrs járóka for having prepared this report, which i think is highly important. we share her wish to further the social integration of ethnic minorities such as, for instance, the roma – and the roma women in particular – while taking account of the gender dimension. equality and the fight against discrimination are indeed the two fundamental values of the european union. these values therefore inspire the implementation of our policy and we take actions in different forms. for instance, earlier this year, we created a high-level group on the social integration of ethnic minorities and their full participation in the labour market. we asked this group to submit recommendations to us by the end of 2007 on examples of good practice, which you also mentioned. second, on the law, roma women are covered by community legislation prohibiting any form of direct or indirect discrimination based on gender or ethnic origin. the legal protection covers access to employment, education, healthcare, goods and services. there is also an awareness-raising programme and different campaigns. the european union provides financial support for specific projects through the structural funds and various community programmes. almost eur 300 million have been allocated to projects to assist the roma population over the past five years. we will also have a special year: the year 2007 will be the european year of equal opportunities. i think this will be an excellent opportunity to raise awareness of multiple discrimination, in particular the question of roma women. the roma community itself has a very important role to play in encouraging the full participation of women in social, economic and political life. we are indeed very conscious that the problem of multiple discrimination, which is highlighted in your report, mrs járóka, is widespread. the commission intends to launch a study this year in order to refine the analysis and also reinforce our policies on this issue. what have we been doing about analysis and data collection? the establishment of the european institute for gender equality will, in my view, undoubtedly bring progress in this field. the collection and analysis of reliable comparable data at community level will hopefully improve that. the institute’s work programme will be in line with the priorities of the commission, but it is up to the management board to also decide on how best to integrate the issues relating to the situation of roma women.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, a researcher told me that if all the gypsies were gathered in one country, it would have about the population of germany, that is to say more than 90 meps. but today they are not represented. if you like, even that's a peculiar kind of racism. we are unfair to them socially and historically. hitler exterminated millions of gypsies. they have not found their justification in history, as the jews found it in the recognition of the holocaust. we have them on the fringes of history. we must approach this matter with great care and sensitivity. the sun comes up for everyone. oxygen is for everyone. water is for everyone. we have to give them space. a place of learning. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission's proposals. give them a social engagement. it is a win for all of us that the gypsies among us are equal and not subject to a racist attitude which unfortunately exists in some countries less and in others more.
mr president, i sincerely congratulate the rapporteur on her commitment to the own-initiative report proposed to our parliament. she methodically analyses the situation of women in armed conflict and their role in the peace process. the courage shown by many women in the face of adversity contradicts the cliché that portrays women as the most vulnerable members of the population in situations of armed conflict. however, when war breaks out, women may be in great danger. while some of these risks are shared by the community as a whole, it is true that others are specifically linked to their status as women. millions of women are affected by the vicious circle of poverty, discrimination and bigotry and are often the most affected by armed conflict, due in particular to pre-existing gender inequalities in literacy, health and income. discrimination against women is both a cause and a consequence of the deprivations they suffer in wartime. it is imperative that humanitarian workers keep this in mind and ensure that women are directly consulted and closely associated with all activities undertaken in their favour, so that they and their children can fully enjoy their right to the dignity and integrity of the human person. women's voices are still not heard at the peace negotiating tables, their needs and interests are not taken into account in the peace treaties. the report shows that the actions mandated by the beijing platform are still, ten years later, ineffective. it is clear that the situation of women affected by war can only be improved if there is political will. commissioner, you are showing that. the government and international and regional institutions should promote the participation of women in all peace forums and activities at all levels, and it should be borne in mind that there is a need for gender-sensitive training for prosecutors, judges and other officials.
the minutes of yesterday's meeting have been distributed. are there any comments on these?
we take note of what you have said, mr schulz.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
it's very simple. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. this request was accepted as there was no objection from the house and was therefore postponed because mr hughes was supposed to come later. i am very sorry, but we could have put this matter to the end and postponed the vote. but it was not put and we are therefore following the agenda.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 1.05 p.m.)
mr president, a month ago i was at a triennial meeting on the waters of the evros river. we were greeks, bulgarians and turks. i was proud to tell them that the european union is sensitive to environmental issues, unlike other large countries such as the united states, china, india and so on. a turkish mp, speaking, pointed out that the danube is the main cause of pollution of the euxine river along with other rivers that flow into it. it is clear that, in addition to the black sea, the providence is also part of the aegean. in studying the subject, i should first of all like to say that the danube is a river which flows through many countries of the european union, but also through many non-community countries, as well as through the two countries which will be joining, bulgaria and romania. the river has been a means of communication, a major transportation, trade, agriculture and fishing route, but over time, industrial and municipal waste is causing the river to die. what should we do with the danube and the other rivers of the european union to give them back their vitality?
mr president, 2007 is the european year of workers' mobility. in the context of the success of the lisbon strategy, the actions planned are aimed at changing the mindset of europeans about the possibility of living in the european union and seeing it as a single market, to try to acquire the facilities that will give them the right to move from one job to another, from one member state to another for a certain period of time or for a more permanent establishment. but why has the success of measures planned since 2000 been limited? the policies of the member states do not converge in promoting quality education. european citizens are not being told that future jobs will be allocated 45% to tertiary education graduates and 40% to secondary education graduates and only 15% to compulsory education graduates, but even this compulsory education does not reduce the rates of those who leave it. the participation of adults in lifelong learning programmes is not satisfactory. only those in illegal occupations have made the move. for others it is utopia.
mr president, i take advantage of the presence of the vice-presidents of the commission, mrs wallström and mr frattini, to raise the issue of juvenile delinquency in the european union, which is showing an alarmingly increasing trend. psychological, social, and economic factors certainly contribute to the development of delinquent instincts in young people. the reproduction of scenes of violence through audiovisual projections, particularly through interactive video games, also contributes. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a duty to develop a coherent and effective strategy to prevent and combat the phenomenon of juvenile delinquency. we have a duty to systematize the individual sectoral actions into an organized policy, a policy that will incorporate the systematic promotion of mental and social health in school in cooperation with parents and the school community, with a particular focus on the development of programmes to control youth violence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a recent meeting with the president, mr borrell fontelles, and the secretary-general, mr priestley, we agreed, as did many in this house, that the removal of the barriers and prejudices which lead to exclusion and discrimination for people with disabilities is achieved through the management of diversity. in 2003, an accessibility audit was carried out in the european parliament. mr president, we can examine the progress made in implementing the conclusions of this audit. let us use and support both the employee code and the code of good practice for the employment of disabled persons! let us support the european parliament's volunteer disability team in terms of time and infrastructure! but above all, as regards the objectives we have set for the employment of disabled people, we must look for numbers and answer the questions: - how many disabled people work in the european parliament's services? - what percentage of the total number of employees does this figure represent? we must also support the european parliament in its efforts to comply with the principle of equal opportunities in its obligations as an employer. i'm inviting you to play a leading role.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by michael cashman, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the decisions of the committee on petitions during the parliamentary year march 2004 - december 2005 [2005/2135 (ini) ] (a6-0178/2006).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr cashman, for a clear and useful report. his story about the cemetery keeper reminds me of a university rector who compared his job to being a cemetery keeper. he said: ‘i have a lot of people under me and nobody listening.’ the petitions offer a kaleidoscopic view of the concerns of many citizens today. they cover a wide range of policy areas, they cover practically all the member states and they cover a broad cross-section of civil society, from the individual citizen right up to the multinational ngos. your rapporteur is right to underline the importance of all the work represented by the thousand or more petitions you receive every year. there is no doubt that the committee on petitions offers citizens an important conduit for their feedback on european acts and policies. it thus contributes to a strengthening of democratic control over community legislation and its implementation at eu, national, regional and local level. i should like to pick up on three aspects in the report and resolution. the rapporteur was very kind and forthcoming towards the commission, so i do not want to raise any conflicts here. much is made in the report of the coexistence of the petitions procedure on the one hand and, on the other hand, the commission’s complaints procedures, sometimes leading to infringement proceedings. where there is coexistence, or even overlap, it is natural to make comparisons. i think that we should avoid getting into a discussion about the relative merits of petitions and complaints procedures. each procedure has its own legal basis and its own specificity and i believe that each of our institutions does well to preserve that, while respecting the needs of the other. in simple language, both procedures ultimately serve to ensure that eu law is applied to the benefit of the citizens. however, infringements are about the commission and the member state. the petitions procedure concerns the individual and their parliament. so each procedure is different in nature. that is not to say that we will not continue to strive for even better cooperation: the commission remains, as always, at the disposal of the committee. that brings me to the second point. as you know, the commission has already agreed to devote more attention to petitions concerning infringement proceedings in its annual report on the application of community law. it is, furthermore, important to remember that the amount of information given to the committee on petitions already exceeds that which is required by our interinstitutional agreement. this is important for transparency. the motion for a resolution argues that the commission does not act with sufficient speed and vigour in some cases where a petition and an infringement procedure are running in parallel. it therefore suggests that these procedures need to be better coordinated. let me just say one thing about that. it is only natural that the petitioner with a grievance may be in need of urgent redress, but let us remember that the ideal timescale of the individual petition will almost inevitably be shorter than the timescale of an infringement proceeding, which by definition takes a certain amount of time. we have, amongst other things, a duty of collaboration with the member states, which necessarily implies a multi-stage process. let us avoid raising unrealistic hopes in cases of overlapping. for the individual citizen, the successful outcome of an infringement procedure is not necessarily and automatically the ultimate and only thing to aim for. a successful outcome to an infringement procedure might not even directly entail the precise redress that the petitioner is seeking. we have several examples of that. the petitions procedure and the infringement procedure have different and distinct objectives, functions and roles. thus the efficiency of the commission’s complaints process cannot be formally linked to petitions. instead, let each of us, the commission and parliament, aim to ensure that our respective procedures – petitions and infringements – are fit for their respective purposes and let us continue our fruitful cooperation and strengthen that as much as possible. i shall refrain from commenting on some other details relating to processes and procedures. let me conclude by signalling my openness to the general message of this report: that petitions are important for democracy and for citizens. the commission is prepared to do as much as possible to improve our cooperation. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, i congratulate mr cashman on his report to the european parliament, because the exercise of the right of referral by european citizens must be seen as a key means of strengthening the awareness of european citizenship. the commissioner has presented the views of the european commission in great detail on the commission part of the report. it is true that european citizens use both complaints to the commission - this is what the 22nd report of the commission on the monitoring of the application of community law shows - and references to the european parliament as a means of strengthening their desire to see community law applied. on the one hand we want european citizens to be conscious judges of the common good, but on the other hand we do not allow them to be treated in the same way by both the commission and the committee on petitions of parliament, since, as mr cashman's report makes very clear, their officially elected representatives cannot control the petitions from the first stage. the commission's decisions are not transparent, the council is not present, and we support the view expressed in the report that the way in which and the procedure for receiving and examining reports must be changed so that european citizens feel that their request is indeed being examined without party or other criteria by a secretariat that remains neutral and does not interfere in the work of meps.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one year after the french and dutch 'no's' to the constitutional treaty, we are in a period of confusion about how to bring europe closer to its citizens. but europe is precisely its citizens, it is precisely its institutions. europe is the institutions for its citizens, only the institutions often give the impression that they operate away from the world. if the union is defending the rights of its citizens, this must be seen in their daily lives. the right of reference is one of the most important ways of making everyone feel active in the european construction. the right of reference is an important tool in promoting a social and people-centred europe. the establishment of our committee and the european ombudsman are steps that have been taken because we have recognised our imperfections and weaknesses. we must make more use of these possibilities of communication with the citizen. the rapporteur rightly calls for the committee on petitions to be strengthened both in terms of its secretariat and its political staff. we must, in fact, inform the public better of our existence. the commission and the council or the member states must in any case stop being afraid to cooperate further with us. it's good for them to know that bringing up problems through solving them builds credibility. it is a question of creating citizens who are gradually being won over by the european idea. those who are against transparency either do not want europe or are suspicious of it. i'm not going to let you do this.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on forced prostitution in the context of the 2006 fifa world cup by anna záborská, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-0054/2006 - b6-0221/2006).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you will recall, the issue of forced prostitution during the world cup was discussed at the initiative of the committee on women's rights and gender equality on 8 march, international women's day. the debate was not just about symbolism and anniversaries. it was a political choice on the part of our committee to sound the alarm once again for the principles, for security, for the protection of human rights, for the dignity of women, for the image of europe in the eyes of its citizens and in the eyes of the citizens of the whole world. today we are joining the initiative of mrs anna záborská to discuss the issue again, especially during these sports activities and amid complaints about incidents of forced prostitution in germany. we are also concerned about the fact that the european parliament has not yet been able to reach a decision on the matter. we are also concerned about the ineffectiveness of our policies. i am glad, commissioner, that you share our view of the scale of the phenomenon and the need to deal with it with all the preventive and repressive measures in the host countries and the countries of origin. recently a delegation from our committee visited athens and discussed with relevant government bodies and fellow parliamentarians the need for transnational cooperation, the need for law enforcement and the need for training of police and judicial staff. we have recognized the importance of protecting victims and raising awareness in society, and i have followed closely the plans you have drawn up for us, commissioner, to study the phenomenon and the specific measures you have mentioned, as we discussed them on 8 march. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos.
i am afraid, mr president, commissioner, that you have limited yourself - and we are limiting ourselves - to findings, descriptions, studies and further future policies for taking effective measures to tackle the cycle of forced prostitution. even in your reports on the work of the german government, which is really doing a feat these days, you did not clarify the way in which the national local authorities are working to dismantle or deal with this cycle on the spot and not with cross-border cooperation once the goods have crossed the gates. fifa on the other hand is idle, whereas it could have had months before informing the fans and the national teams, to have made an educational information policy to the world that follows these games and fifa knows it. why would you do that? because fifa may consider forced prostitution to be a counter-advertisement for these football matches. we have not been able to convince an organization like fifa of this either as the european union. on the other hand, the european union, having a strong communication policy if you will, and i am addressing myself to you, mr frattini, has not pursued in recent months a heavy-handed, large-scale communication campaign, television, with advertising spots during the matches held in cooperation with the advertising companies, in cooperation with fifa itself, so that only these red cards are the communication policy, the policy which is community-wide against forced prostitution. i think, mr frattini, that we have left the german government helpless. he's making a huge fight but without any means of communication. but most of all i'm afraid we'll limit ourselves to studies, leave the victims and say the surgery was successful but the patient died! and they'll die every day in locked rooms, women and children.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my political group agrees that groundwater is the most sensitive aquatic ecosystem, the most important source of water for human consumption, but also a key component of other ecosystems such as rivers and lakes. over two thirds of the drinking water comes from groundwater reserves. and there's already been a lot of damage done. groundwater quality has suffered greatly, affecting both the environment and public health and the economy. more than half of the groundwater, according to the experts, is already polluted and the prospect of a substantial clean-up is extremely time-consuming and extremely costly, so we must act in good time because many consumers, our fellow europeans, have now lost their confidence in tap water, preferring bottled water, which sometimes costs up to a thousand times more. in addition, we do not have sufficient information on the relationship between the evolution of the animal ecosystem and the use of groundwater, so we do not know the damage that groundwater pollution does to the animal ecosystem. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of groundwater is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs klaß, for her excellent work, without this being to say that there were no points of disagreement during the debate and the preparation of the second reading. but we have a satisfactory compromise and we are very close to the commission. the council must finally agree, because if we leave it to the discretion of the member states to avoid contamination of groundwater by harmful substances, we will be taking this case backwards in relation to existing legislation, whereas we must go forward, deal more effectively with major nitrate pollution, become more effective in the policy of prevention. my group therefore wants a legally binding text, clear, with strict consequences for the offenders, based on prevention and continuous control by the european commission. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate my colleague on her efforts in this report and on the results so far. across europe, indeed, the time has come to take seriously the issue of the lack of infrastructure and the recording of available spatial information, especially in environmental and public health matters, to launch a new effort as the basis for a series of services to the citizen, services of a higher level, available to everyone, without restrictions, and most importantly, available to public services and other bodies and accessible via the internet. we have a common goal: to get rid of the logic of withholding evidence. we must realize that we have to gain from the free and open sharing of spatial information. public bodies will be able to find information more easily, and of course citizens will be able to access sensitive data in order to gain an opinion and be able to participate in productive consultation processes. finally, it should be noted that the infrastructure is particularly lacking in several member states, which may require specific measures to be taken into account in any proposals relating to inspire.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am afraid i cannot agree with mr queiro. i would like to do all that you have proposed, but unfortunately the european commission has no competence for that. the constitution which gives the european union competence in tourism has not, as you know, entered into force. and all the fine proposals you have made, because of the commission's lack of competence in these matters, can only be desired and not implemented. i said that at the time, and what the commission has done instead is something much more difficult, namely to get the member states, under the very difficult conditions that exist, to undertake a coordinated european tourism policy. it is not possible to do this in a short time, because, as i said, we are not responsible for this. we have put forward this communication in march of this year, it has been discussed several times with the tourism ministers of the member states and has been received positively, and a number of possibilities will arise from it, but i am not in a position to predict to you when what concrete steps can really be taken. it's sad, but it's true. i suggest that we continue to talk intensively about this subject, but in particular that we ensure that the european constitution comes into force. we will then have a whole new opportunity to do something in a field which - and i agree with you on this - is of great importance for the economic future of europe. i am firmly convinced that tourism has enormous potential for the economic development of europe. if there is one area in which we can expect strong growth, both in terms of global economic development and population growth, it is certainly tourism. the commission will endeavour to encourage member states and the industries concerned to exploit these potentials to the full by coordinated action.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a particularly timely subject, because we are close to the most important and longest tourist season, namely summer, and we can better appreciate what tourism means for economic growth, regional convergence, jobs and the quality and security of life of european citizens. tourism is a dynamic activity which, together with its ancillary activities, represents 11% of the gross european product, but the lisbon strategy and international competition force us to do even more and to make use of this capital. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. we believe that, if there is political will and commitment, many of the measures mentioned in the european parliament's resolutions and which mr queiró refers to in his oral question can be implemented. the european tourism sector can gain greater visibility, coordinated advertising, an identity in its product, in its objectives, and become visible and distinctive to the rest of the world and to european citizens. so i think that even if we don't have the constitution, we can work with the private sector and with government agencies to promote some of these things. i am very glad that the commissioner agrees with us and we hope that he will use all the possibilities that the european commission has through the working groups, through the forum, to make us all aware of these challenges. the fact that the constitution refers to them and we have all accepted them as a positive competence for coordinated policy is an element that allows us to start implementing them intelligently.
mr president, commissioner, it has been said that three years have passed since the commission's communication and one year in fact since the adoption of the report by parliament, which had proposed concrete initiatives. but we realise that little progress has been made. tourism, although primarily the domain of member states, is also strongly influenced by community policies, and we must therefore exhaust the possibilities for promoting sustainable european tourism through regional and rural policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. measures that can be taken to promote tourism include proposing alternative forms of tourism that highlight the natural and historically built landscape and supporting tourism businesses through existing programmes that promote thematic tourism (eco-tourism, walking tourism, etc.) in under-populated tourist areas. other such measures include the introduction of a special programme for the elderly, especially during peak periods, the introduction of a tourist destination label and the introduction of rules to enhance access for people with disabilities. the european commission can use such initiatives to add value to tourism.
the committee on budgets adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs. mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, mr buzek, on his excellent work. the debate we are having today on the 7th framework programme is of particular importance. it is about europe's ability to implement an effective strategy for sustainable development, investing in knowledge and in the future, a policy that will enable it to face international competition not through the degradation of workers and the dismantling of the welfare state but through investment in education, research, innovation and excellence. in this respect, parliament has supported from the outset the need for a substantial increase in the appropriations for the 7th framework programme. unfortunately, the european council in december adopted a restrictive accounting approach to the budgetary perspective as a whole and to research and technology in particular. it is certainly a matter of the credibility of governments when they easily set high targets for the growth and competitiveness of the european economy and then fail to express the political will to finance research and technology policies adequately. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. it is certainly positive that an additional eur 100 million has been secured for access to innovative technologies by smes, as we all recognise their contribution to growth and employment. it is also important that the energy sector was given €150 million, because it is vital to further the spread of renewable energy sources and the rational use of energy. i would also like to stress, mr president, that it is of particular importance to ensure that the programmes of the framework programme can be accessed and used by all regions of the european union as a key policy for long-term growth, convergence and social cohesion with the central objective of addressing the digital divide and the research and innovation divide within europe.
i think that parliament has done a very good job, mr president, commissioner. i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr buzek. i would like to make two amendments which have already been adopted by itre: amendment no 273 to the rules of procedure this amendment concerns the chapter on research infrastructures. it wants to support excellence in convergence regions and remote areas. it simply feels that in the case of two equally excellent proposals for new research infrastructures we should consider which option would contribute more to strengthening and extending the excellence of european research institutions. the fact that in the period 2000-2006 50% of public and private research money went to only 30 of the 254 regions of the european union is a sign that excellence is trapped. amendment no 66: for embryonic stem cells. i would like to see this amendment tabled. i think that this amendment is right both from a philosophical point of view and from the point of view of the protection of human rights and respect for human life. i would also like to point out that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i would like to ask the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council does not make any further proposals. this is to the detriment of research itself, since it limits it to stem cells of either inferior quality or limited capacity, because it will force our researchers to look to countries outside the european union which have stem cell stocks of these particular dates, because we cannot invoke subsidiarity and exclude funding for cutting-edge research areas on the grounds that one or some of the member states prohibit it, because by the same logic i would tell you that it is unfair for countries which prohibit embryonic stem cell research to exploit the results of countries which allow it, because, finally, it is beyond doubt that stem cell research is not sufficient for all applications.
the european union is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective dialogue with russia, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. it is not disputed that the contractual framework for relations dates back to 1994 and cannot respond to the new geo-strategic and geo-economic reality. in this respect, the european union and in particular the european commission must take concrete initiatives so that we do not wait for the 1994 agreement to expire in december 2007 but take initiatives today to strengthen strategic relations with russia. the european union needs its own independent strategy vis-à-vis russia, madam president. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus, and to prevent the spread of the disease. the recent statements by the american vice-president dick cheney may serve the interests of the united states, but they should have nothing to do with the interests of the european union and the member states. in this respect, it is essential to build relations of mutual trust and interdependence between the two european strategic partners, which will also help the new countries of central and eastern europe to overcome the fear and insecurity of the historical past.
member of the commission. of course i hope that small companies, and every other company, can use these services safely. however, the question put to me related to the commission’s role in this matter. as i pointed out in my reply, this is in fact a matter for a national court, and is not a matter for the european commission. that is the situation under existing law.
member of the commission. on 12 april 2006 we published a preliminary report on the findings of the inquiry into competition conditions in the payment card sector in the eu. that report confirms that businesses and consumers do not yet benefit from a fully competitive internal market in payment cards. the large price differentials which exist within the single market are a clear sign of this. in the commission’s view these price differentials, and the high levels of fees that are currently charged, indicate that there is scope for significantly reducing prices at least in some member states. the commission is now holding a public consultation on the interim report. we will listen carefully to the views of all interested parties, including the industry and consumers before we draw any conclusions on the way forward. if the preliminary findings on payment cards are borne out by this consultation, the commission will consider action under ec treaty anti-trust rules in individual cases. however, the commission would also like to emphasise that it is important that market participants themselves help to tackle the problems identified in the inquiry. so it is now also up to them. there is a considerable lack of transparency in the current market. the preliminary result of the enquiry into the sector provides all stakeholders with substantial information on how the market functions, and the commission sincerely hopes that this will help players in the industry to correct some of the problems themselves. the more the payment card industry does on its own initiative, the less it is likely to face action under anti-trust rules and, as we are aware, prevention is better than cure. the honourable member refers in particular to the situation in greece compared with other member states. the inquiry indeed found that the fees charged to consumers and businesses in greece are above the eu-25 average. at present the commission has deliberately refrained from identifying individual countries or networks or banks as negative examples in this sector. the commission prefers to encourage a generally constructive debate with a view to finding solutions to the problems from among stakeholders and from within the industry itself. the commission will keep parliament informed of the conclusions it draws, following the public consultation, and of any further action it considers appropriate in the light of those conclusions.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply, although i note that you have been much more specific in your reply to the european parliament than the preliminary report you published on 12 april itself. i would like to ask you when the commission intends to propose and present specific measures. when will the study be finished? and for greece, can you give us some numbers or is it classified?
member of the commission. in answer to your last question: no, not at this time. i have explained that, following the result of the preliminary findings, we shall be contacting those involved during the consultation procedure. hopefully, they have already taken into account that there is something rotten in the state in certain circumstances and they will come up with certain decisions or proposals, or whatever, when we have finalised matters after the consultation, which will be before the end of the year. then we will review the situation and either put forward proposals or just inform you that a couple of those that did not behave are reacting positively and correcting their behaviour.
madam president, commissioner, smes pay up to 70% more than large companies for their customers to use credit cards. this results in an increase in the cost of the final product to the european consumer and inflation, which can reach up to 2.5%. i have asked the same question as my colleague before, and i ask: does the commission believe that the financial services sector should be integrated into the single market and the single area of payments in euro?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr varvitsiotis. i welcome this initiative from austria, finland and sweden, which aims to apply the principle of mutual recognition to judgments in criminal matters imposing custodial sentences or measures involving the privation of liberty, for the purpose of their enforcement in the european union. the initiative will facilitate the social rehabilitation of offenders. it should in fact allow for rehabilitation measures to be taken in the state of nationality or permanent legal residence. one of the most controversial issues to arise in the discussion of this proposal in parliament and the council is the issue of the consent of the offender. i generally agree with your view and that of the rapporteur. more precisely, i consider that consent is not necessary for transfer to a member state to which the sentenced person is to be deported or transfer to the member state of residence of the sentenced person. however, consent should be necessary for the transfer to the member state of nationality of the sentenced person if that member state is not the member state of residence of the sentenced person. finally, i fully subscribe to your amendment aimed at adding a provision that the victims of the crime shall also be informed. the commission also considers it necessary that victims be informed, but only at their request, of the transfer of a sentenced person, because in this scenario the enforcement of any claims for damages becomes more complicated. i once again thank the rapporteur and can assure you that i will support most of your amendments during the discussions in the council.
the rapporteur. mr president, the subject we are discussing tonight is not new. it was first established by the council of europe convention of march 1983, which has been ratified by all the member states. the convention provided that convicted persons could be transferred to serve the remainder of their sentence only in their state of nationality and only with their consent and the consent of the states concerned. however, because of these bureaucratic formalities, this system did not work, so an additional protocol was needed on 18 december 1997, which did not require the consent of the convicted person. the protocol has not been signed by all the member states. this is how the initiative of austria, finland and sweden was born, which aims to speed up the procedure in the member state of origin or of permanent residence. the transfer of prisoners to serve their sentences is intended primarily to facilitate their life in prison and their easier reintegration into society after their release, since it is reasonable that a prisoner in the prison of the country of which he is a national will be able to communicate more easily with other prisoners, will be able to speak his language and not only that; in addition, he will be able to attend vocational training programmes which will help him to reintegrate smoothly into society and will also make it much easier for him to get in touch with his family or friends. the support of his family will be an important element for him. the simplification of procedures, so that the transfer of convicted persons is more flexible and less bureaucratic, was our main objective. i believe that what has been achieved is to better define the transfer criteria, to strengthen the principle of non bis in idem and the principle of specialisation and also to support the rights of victims, who should be informed about the whole process, including the transfer order of the convicted person. i agree with the commissioner that victims should only be informed if they so request, but in order for victims to know this, they must first be informed that there is such a procedure in progress. the member states' proposal covers only 32 serious offences and is based on a procedure for converting penalties into another penalty compatible with the law of the executing state. these positions, as voted unanimously by the committee on civil liberties, simplify and make more flexible the proposal of austria, finland and sweden, which provided for the granting of a permit to the member states through which the convicted person would pass on the presentation of multiple supporting documents. we have also amended the time limits set at each stage of the procedure to make them more realistic and at the same time to ensure a significant period of time spent in the executing state, so that the reintegration process is more complete and more effective. we have also settled the issues of amnesty and pardon, which are decided after consultation with the issuing and executing states. i think this proposal is another important step towards the convergence of criminal law in the member states of the european union. a great goal, but one that we must keep in mind, so that we can eventually unify criminal law. finally, mr president, i should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the other political groups and all those who tabled amendments for their excellent cooperation. i think the committee on civil liberties has taken a big step towards the unification of criminal law with this proposal.
mr president, there are two issues: if there is a democracy and how much we respect it in europe and who is in the final command. if we really believe in democracy and the constitution will bring about a change in the lives of the peoples of europe, let us listen to the peoples of europe in a referendum. we must not be afraid of the peoples of europe! and who's in charge? mr president of the commission? if you really are in charge, tell me what the south-eastern borders of europe are. you don't know because turkey doesn't allow you to know. good for you! i'm going to ask you about the law of the sea. it applies to all of europe except the aegean. good for you! which country is threatening europe? only turkey in the aegean with a casus belli. good for you! which country is violating europe? russia ? i'm not sure. turkey every day in the aegean. good for you! which country does not recognise the republic of cyprus? the turkey. good for you! which country owns 40% of the land in europe? the turkey. good for you! where is the likeness of the ecumenical patriarch mocked and hanged? turkey and you put up with it. good for you! this is the reality, mr president of the commission, and let me make a suggestion for your next meeting with mr bush: don't do it in the azores, do it in guantanamo. that's where you need to go, so we can finally understand what's going on in this world and how you're complicit in the crimes of the americans.
mr president, i shall speak about the pnr agreement with america, which was struck down by the european court of justice, and the framework decision on data protection, which is unfortunately being struck down every day by the european council through its inaction. i propose in particular that, firstly, if you, mr president, renew the pnr agreement under the third pillar, you do so only until 2007. secondly, to negotiate with parliament changes to this agreement which protect fundamental rights and to do so by finally activating the runway. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are voting today on parliament's proposal. it's a very serious proposal. stop not working on it! the danish presidency has promised the european parliament that it will pass this legislation, because if it does not, i am afraid that the european parliament will have to stop other important activities, but first and foremost, it will have to pass a european law on the protection of rights.
in writing. the report shall be drawn up together with the decision of the court of justice and the commission's communication on the matter. like the european commission, the report interprets the above decision as conferring the power to introduce criminal provisions in all community policies in which binding rules exist in order to ensure their implementation, which is a serious step towards the establishment of minimum criminal rules at eu level by the union's legislative bodies, i.e. the 'communitisation' of criminal law. in paragraph 4 it actually proposes the establishment of a common eu criminal law, thus depriving the member states of their exclusive right to determine sovereignly themselves which behaviour they consider to be criminal offences and their right to determine the type and limits of criminal sanctions. this is a decisive limitation of one of the basic elements of national popular sovereignty and a re-introduction of one of the essential features of the philosophy of the euro-constitution, namely the primacy of community law over national legislation, even national constitutional provisions, in order to directly impose on the european peoples the supreme will in law and the strategic political aspirations of european monopoly capital. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. pressure is being stepped up on bulgaria and romania to bring their peoples into full submission to the eu's overlords in order to impose additional burdensome conditions that will ensure the plutocracy more favourable conditions for the exploitation of workers. the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu is being promoted alongside the enlargement of nato, the demand for participation of military forces and the surrender of the sovereign rights of these countries to the adventurous imperialist projects of the usa, nato and the eu at the expense of the peoples. the constant adjustments of the accession conditions to the 'acquis communautaire' shaped by the promotion of the lisbon strategy, the revision of the cap, capitalist restructuring and the eu's general anti-people and anti-working class policy are creating particularly unfavourable conditions for workers, with sweeping changes in fundamental labour and social rights. the people of these countries are realizing more and more that they cannot expect anything positive from their membership of the eu. the resolution supports the accession of bulgaria and romania to the imperialist union and the eu's plans, as well as the intensification of anti-people policies against the peoples, which is why the kke group votes against it.
in writing. the reflection period was used to persuade the people to accept the so-called "euro constitution" which was rejected by the people of france and the netherlands by 54.7% and 61.6% respectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they are propagandizing that the people of france and the netherlands have made a mistake and that the values of the capitalist eu, that is, the free market and the interests of capital, come first. but voters judged on the basis of their life experience and took a negative view of the anti-people, reactionary, pro-plutocratic policy of the eu and its governments. the eu's policy is being challenged, and that is a good thing. that is why other governments did not dare to hold a referendum and followed the adoption of the 'euro constitution' through the parliamentary route. the attempt to reinstate the 'euro-constitution' under another name is a contempt for the popular verdict and a mockery of the people. the 'euro constitution' is dead and any attempt to resurrect it is a violation even of these principles of unanimity of the eu's bourgeois pseudo-democracy. the european parliament, the council and the commission have agreed to the need to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism.
mr president, since last december the commission's communication and other modern media have been recording the speed of global change and new risks, but also the opposite trend towards a lasting and balanced three-dimensional development linking economic growth and quality of life with social inclusion and environmental protection. by proposing the framework of the basic principles of the european union's sustainable development strategy in a way that complements the lisbon strategy, divided into six key areas, an attempt is made to integrate sustainability into european policy-making, both with an internal dimension and by taking into account the external impact of decisions and choices on the global space. the european parliament, through its resolution, is seeking to influence the decisions of the other institutions. we reaffirm our political and humanitarian sensitivity and our awareness of our responsibilities towards future generations by advocating the effective implementation of a sustainability impact assessment of all european union initiatives. the resolution is clear. we welcome the presidency's interest, but we are calling for a single, coherent and inclusive framework that brings together public opinion and policy-makers in common pursuits. the general objectives are to be supplemented by specific measures, particularly as regards people, and therefore particular attention must be paid to the definition of progress indicators, always in relation to the benefit to man as an indisputable and unique value. economic prosperity, high living standards, the ecological effects of the single diffusion of goals into the potential of the natural world only make sense if they serve the citizens of today and tomorrow.
mr president, incidents of racism and violence are unfortunately increasing all the time both in intensity and frequency, not only in poland but, unfortunately, throughout europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one, but it is not enough to make it clear that the directive is not intended to protect workers from the risks associated with asbestos. the legislation and the daily administrative practice of some member states encourage intolerance and discrimination to the extent that we could speak of institutionalized racism. member states must ensure that practical measures are taken to combat racism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the european union must be able to take action to combat racism and xenophobia. racism is a multifaceted and multi-dimensional problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the european union must not only combat racism but also the social exclusion which is the greenhouse for the growth of racism.
the president of the council. first of all, the question of the increase in visa fees: this was made necessary by the introduction of biometric data, which has made the issuing of visas and the procedures leading to the issuing of visas much more complex. however, and i hope this answers your question, in the discussion on the increase in visa fees, the countries of the western balkans - which are a particular priority of the austrian presidency - but also the countries of the european neighbourhood policy were given great importance and were granted possible exemptions. the relevant act includes, inter alia, a provision that the visa fee for nationals of those states with which visa facilitation agreements exist, i.e. russia, among others, is not increased. as you know, there are also efforts to conclude visa facilitation agreements with other countries. i have already had the opportunity today to point out that visa facilitation agreements will, if possible, also enter into force with the countries of the western balkans next year. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the countries with which we want to have particularly close relations do not suffer from the fact that these visa fees are being raised for very objectively understandable reasons.
president-in-office of the council. i would like to ask mr stubb whether he has ever tried to get a visa to the united states, whether smiling or not. it is probably more difficult than it is to get a visa to russia! in response to your question, i am afraid i cannot make an educated guess. i beg your indulgence. i really cannot give you an answer. i am not the representative of the council of the european union for this area. i am not in the business of speculation and i would prefer to refrain from any speculation on this point.
the president of the council. the issue of sustainability in the use of biofuels is an important issue for the sustainable energy strategy of the european union in general. we have indeed made it quite clear during the austrian presidency that europe must make greater progress in the future on the sustainability of biofuels as a principle of its policy. with the biomass action plan and the eu biofuels strategy, we have had communications presented, extensive discussions and then progress in the council. it is about how biofuels can be blended or used as new, general fuels in the future. it is absolutely clear to us - and we must also promote this together in europe - that the production of biofuels and biofuels, from biodiesel to ethanol, cannot be at the expense of the environment. we must also apply the principle of sustainability to the production of biofuels in the european union. it is also important - and i have been to several environmental conferences in recent months - that we also ensure that the principle of sustainability is taken into account internationally in the international trade in biofuels across the whole range of production with the different raw materials. during the presidency, and especially at the march 2006 meeting, we discussed a reorientation of energy policy for europe, and this was particularly true of fuels. the council and the commission, in a conclusion of 8 june 2006, called for proposals to promote the cost-effective and sustainable use of biomass for heating and cooling, to review legislation on animal by-products and to promote the use of agricultural and food by-products as a renewable energy source biogas is an important issue for the future and to simplify the administrative procedures for the production and use of bioenergy under the common agricultural policy and to assess the extension of the application of the energy crops regime to all member states; these are the cornerstones for the future of energy design. this is important, especially after the enlargement of the european union to include ten new member states. the commission has also announced that it will present a communication on energy crops schemes by the end of 2006 - and i believe this is a key element - containing concrete proposals in this area. what i mean by that is that we have, in the 2003 agrarian reform, in terms of sustainability and in terms of creating a new source of income for rural europe, we have taken measures to use 1.5 million hectares of renewable raw materials for the full range of alternative energy production in all areas, and we have, and we have to see this today, far from exploiting those 1.5 million hectares. there is potential here, which may be expanded, and we are looking forward to the results of the evaluation and the commission's proposal, and we will have to deal intensively with these challenges of a sustainable energy policy in the coming months and years, both in the agriculture council and in the environment council. sustainable and renewable energy production is the key to independence and to future energy production projects in europe.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it will be up to us, with the certification systems we implement, to ensure in detail that sustainable alternative energy supplies are also provided from other parts of the world, because we do not want all that you mentioned: deforestation of the rainforest, palm oil production under social and environmental criteria. there are a few ways to do it. in austria, for example, we have defined cross-compliance conditions from the agricultural reform as the basis for energy production for the blending of biodiesel and ethanol in our country, i.e. anything produced under ecological and social criteria and production conditions, under european criteria, can also be blended, no matter from which part of the world it comes. we will of course also be faced with the question in the wto in the coming weeks: how can certification and how can legal bases be implemented in such a way that they also stand up to the rules of international trade and the wto? this requires a detailed examination. commissioner piebalgs is on the same path as the relevant officials of the european union and national authorities, in order to get clarity on this issue and not to make some hasty decisions, as in other matters, and then suffer defeats at the legal level and thus lose the market. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall be making a massive effort to do this, and this is also envisaged in the area of research and development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. as the minister for agriculture and the environment of my country, i have the strategic advantage of being in a win-win situation: the use of alternative energy sources not only reduces co2 emissions and thus contributes significantly to the achievement of the kyoto targets, but also creates value and jobs in rural areas, especially in remote rural regions of europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs.
the european biofuels strategy sets targets for the european union and obligations for the member states. but member states differ widely in technological progress, market sizes, production scales and fuel market structures. i would therefore ask the council whether there should be a review of this policy. is the institutionalisation of obligations contrary to the prevailing economic and technological reality?
the president of the council. they raise a point which is not only relevant to europe's energy policy but also to the perception and implementation of european objectives in the national states in general. i can only say that we see, in the example of the optional target of 5.75% for biofuels, that more and more countries are now joining. austria has implemented this objective by means of a mandatory measure. hungary is very interested. in germany too, this objective is already in the process of being legislated. so there is a lot going on, and i am very optimistic that our targets, which we have set in both the biofuels strategy plan and the biomass plan, will be implemented consistently by the member states. i admit, however, that this is often not just political will, but that the development of fossil fuel prices is also sustainably supporting us on this path. we have repeatedly reminded our colleagues in discussions that strategies should not only be developed at european level but also implemented at national level. some people go ahead, others go behind, but in the end, everything moves in the right direction. i'm very optimistic.
the president of the council. i can only agree with you that the question of promoting renewable energy sources is certainly not the sole responsibility of an energy policy. it must be supported by a policy on the supply of raw materials, i.e. agricultural and forestry policy, biomass, agricultural raw material production, and by environmental, economic and fiscal policies. we must see that we need stronger agricultural policy guidelines for the inputs, for the incentives to production. the commission's proposal will be discussed at the end of the year. that's very positive. we evaluate where we stand and what potential we have. we will begin in june - during our presidency - to debate a forestry strategy for europe, to assess the potential of forestry for the future, and we must include renewable energy in national economic and fiscal policies, whether it is green electricity, support for heat, support for plant and infrastructure, research and development. we have a common task here, but there is a lot of movement.
the president of the council. i don't see it that way. it is up to the european union, to all of us, to give the answers. i have tried to show a way forward with the issue of certification. we have introduced a mandatory 5.75% mixture in austria for the purpose of implementation. we will achieve this in october 2008. we are already very, very far along: bio-diesel and ethanol plants are being built. this creates jobs, and in my home state alone there are currently 180 jobs in a new ethanol plant. we have done that, and that is our responsibility. we have also clearly defined in the guidelines: only mixing with products produced in accordance with european social, ecological and agricultural guidelines. if these products can be produced in brazil, then brazil is our competitor. but even if brazil is able to do so, the long distance of transport and other criteria reduce competitiveness. we have therefore the means to provide the answers, through certification, through market measures which are clear and which we also have to evaluate and defend in the wto. we do not want to create a sustainable energy policy in europe and then import products from overseas. we have an incredible potential with 10 new member states - and subsequently romania and bulgaria - where a lot of land can be used not for food production but for energy production, and we have chosen the agricultural policy guidelines to make this possible.
the president of the council. we have already discussed this crucial issue of minimising and limiting pollution in the context of the dynamics of transport on several occasions during the austrian presidency. we have started negotiations on the commission's proposal with the aim of achieving a progressive emissions regulation with a longer-term perspective which is both - and this is a crucial point, because we have discussed sustainability a lot today - to meet environmental policy requirements and to give european industry planning certainty for technical development. both these criteria can be achieved by a more stringent setting of emission limit values for diesel vehicles, for example. against this background, negotiations in the council were conducted in the hope of reaching a political agreement in the council in june 2006 - in other words, in the near future - if the timetable permitted, in particular with the european parliament. in the negotiations - if i may be brief - we have had two specific information seminars for the member states, following initiatives taken by the austrian presidency. the first was in february, where mainly the environmental policy requirements for the state of the art for exhaust gas cleaning for fine particulate matter and in particular nox for diesel cars were discussed, a second will take place on 22 june. we will of course continue to pursue this matter with consistency. we have an absolute need to discuss the air strategy and the implementation of euro 5 and euro 6 at the next environment council at the end of june. we want to be ambitious. in view of the debate on pm10, particulate matter, especially in central europe, and nox levels, it is important to have clear rules in place, because we need to see that our industry needs planning certainty, and because we also need to see that our industry is in competition worldwide with other vehicle manufacturers, some of whom have already tried out solutions of their own, which are very ambitious. we want to make further progress in this direction, for the sake of environmental safety and quality of life in europe and also for the health of the people in the affected areas. so we will make this narrow border crossing between euro 5, euro 6 as a perspective, possibly to achieve environmental objectives, nox and pm10, but also to keep a competitive automotive industry in europe. we have taken this path and we will be discussing these two issues, the air strategy and euro 5, very intensively in the environment council, with a view to going beyond this, also in the presence of several commissioners.
the president of the council. i can only give you a report on the specific requirements today. the central outcome of the orientation debate in the council was that the proposal was unanimously welcomed by the environment ministers in view of the drastic reduction of the particulate limit values for diesel cars, i.e. 5 mg per kilometre, and the 20% reduction of the nox limit values envisaged by the european commission was considered insufficient. that is the state of the debate, and we shall continue to discuss it here in june. a large majority of member states have already expressed their support for the signal of a second stage of reduction in nox in relation to euro 6. this means taking more ambitious action in terms of nox reduction - in our view, we are already very far along in the field of particulate matter limits - and also a vision: to ensure longer-term planning security for industry beyond euro 5 already now. so we are not going to decide now on euro 5 and what the limits will be in detail, and then start the next debate in two or three years. we must also send a signal to industry: where to go? and that, in my view, is a sensible course to take.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am in talks with most of the member states. the problem we had in the last orientation debate was that we were guided by the commission's guidelines and we also made the evaluation on the basis of those guidelines. but we are not yet at the stage where i can give you a sense of the mood of the people in the community as to what percentages of reduction are being considered over what time frame. but my aim is to outline a vision for several years - a decade - and to show the steps, so to speak, to start concrete implementation now, but also to define the next steps we intend to take to get to the implementation phase with euro 6. the clear message is that we do not want to end euro 5 with a compromise and then start again with something new, but we want to send a clear signal.
the president of the council. as regards the question of european forestry, we want to make a statement during the austrian presidency in june by starting the discussion on the question of a forestry strategy for europe. we have not had any joint discussions on this subject so far. however, this is all the more important now that the decision to support rural development through the european agricultural and rural development fund allows member states to implement a rural development programme between 2007 and 2013 and to include the protection of forests. this forestry measure is intended to and this is important in particular to improve the competitiveness of forestry this is stated in article 20 and to promote the sustainable management of forested areas. as regards the funds made available in the national states, it should be recalled that a european union regulation 1698/2005 provides for co-financing by the community and the member states. the community contribution to the forestry strategy and support is approximately between 50% and 55%, with clear ceilings in the annex to the regulation. the total amount of aid granted for forestry programmes in, for example, ireland over the period 2007-2013 will be planned accordingly by the competent authorities there and submitted to the european union. it is about the provision of national funds and the co-financing of the european union, which is guaranteed and also possible within the decision-making process of rural development.
the president of the council. i think this is a necessary scenario. we must not make the mistake in europe that we sometimes make at national level, for example in energy policy, of only discussing ambitious targets: what share of the energy mix should renewable energy make up? what we need is an assessment of the potential: what is the sustainable potential in europe to generate renewable energy from biomass, forestry, biogas, wind or water? what is the potential in terms of sustainability and how do we intend to invest in rural development to bring this potential to the market in a resource-efficient, effective and cost-effective way? we want to discuss this with the forestry strategy we are about to launch and with the biomass action plan we have launched. the finnish presidency will make the forestry strategy a very central point of its presidency, and we are now starting in june. there is also a need for more resource-based discussion, including in rural development. we do the same in austria. with 47% of the country's area covered by forests, we will in future focus on the sustainable supply of biomass as a raw material, also through rural development funds, with our own programme.
the president of the council. community action to promote sustainable forest management in the european union is part of the multi-component european union forest strategy. it is the development of rural areas, the protection and monitoring of forests, the conservation of biodiversity and the mitigation of the effects of climate change. forests have a very wide range of functions. and rural development policy is the main instrument for implementing the forestry strategy at community level, as i have already said in my previous question. for the period 2000-06, the community has allocated almost eur 4.8 billion in rural development funds for forestry measures in europe, representing 10% of the total allocated to rural development. the new regulation also provides for greater emphasis on forestry in support of rural development 2007-13. this is a clear commitment to forestry, to the upstream and downstream sectors. what are the future areas of support in the forestry sector that are being discussed? this is firstly the initial afforestation of agricultural land, the initial establishment of agroforestry systems on agricultural land, the initial afforestation of non-agricultural land, payments also under natura 2000, payments for forest environmental measures, the restoration of forestry potential, the introduction of preventive actions and also aid for non-productive investments. we can - and this is an important guiding principle for the future - also remember one thing in the debate on forestry strategy: the forest serves a biodiversity function for fauna and flora, it serves a recreational function, it fulfils environmental tasks, it helps us to protect the climate, it prepares the ground for sustainable energy supply, but it is also a huge economic factor in europe. seeing this whole is crucial and important. the forestry strategy should also address these issues in detail.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the question you have asked, which is specifically tailored to a region with a history of problems in forestry and also in the particular impact of forest fires and all the other issues of concern in the mediterranean area: it is clear that the forestry strategy cannot be a strategy only for the major forest producers and the countries with a high proportion of forests in europe, but that we must also take account of the problem areas you have mentioned. i therefore expect that the finnish presidency and the one that follows will give very much attention to the question of afforestation, environmental measures, fire prevention, etc., especially in the countries and regions concerned which you have mentioned. we must also develop appropriate measures for the most disadvantaged regions. i care about that. the forestry strategy is not just for countries like sweden, finland and austria, but for all the specific features of the european union.
the president of the council. i'm not going to tell you. this is not so much a matter for the european union as it is for the implementation in the national states. but it is important in the natura 2000 forestry strategy and all other actions affecting property and in the protection of fauna and flora affecting property to involve landowners in the design process and in the practical implementation on the ground. this is the task of those who implement natura 2000. many mistakes have also been made due to lack of experience, which has often given natura 2000 a bad reputation in the wider world. in those regions and countries where the system has been well implemented, both in consultation with the owners in the design of management plans and with a corresponding explanation of the offer, the system has moved in the direction of direct payments. there are several examples of patterns that can be shown. however, owners must be involved in the development of strategy and management plans. and then a clear offer: if the environment is to be used, then compensation should be paid in the forest.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament and the council have agreed on a comprehensive regulatory framework for community action in the field of water policy by means of directive 2060/ec. the directive aims, among other things, to reduce progressively the discharge of dangerous substances into water. the directive provides for cooperation between member states in relation to transboundary watercourses, where the commission may act as mediator if necessary. as regards the specific question you have asked me about the raab, i can only say that the foaming along the raab is essentially occasional, locally limited and occurs mainly below the weir overflows. so far, no adverse effects on the aquatic ecosystem of the sea bass have been detected by this foaming. nevertheless, in its report on the analysis of the stress and its impact under article 5 of the water framework directive establishing a regulatory framework for community action in the field of water policy, austria - also in response to the efforts of my experts - classified the section of the raab affected by the chemical condition as being at risk of failing to maintain good water status. in line with the eu water framework directive, further surveys will be carried out to identify the causes, extent and possible solutions to the problem, with the aim of providing a secure basis for the action programme. i can assure you from this position that i am very much interested in finding a solution to the problems raised by the common planning of europe's water policy in an orderly and positive relationship with our neighbour hungary. i will do everything in my power, in consultation with my regional officials, in two federal states in particular, to ensure that the problem is taken seriously and that a solution is found which is also positive for hungary. it is in my absolute interest to do so, and i will see to it, and i have already taken steps in austria to do so.
the president of the council. in both cases, and in particular in the raab case, we have worked with bilateral commissions to ensure that we can jointly address your concerns, that you will ensure that there is an improvement by quoting the date and naming the specific factory, and i have also approached the relevant authorities directly in the regions. i am very interested in this and i will make sure that we succeed in both cases together, because as minister for the environment of the republic of austria i am equally interested in being taken into account in your proceedings, for example, in relation to the paks nuclear power station. we are neighbours, we have common interests in the region, that is a give and take, and that will be, as i hope, the case with water as well as with nuclear energy.
the president of the council. austria is very good in water quality compared to other countries. we have specific problems - that is not a question at all - and we must also find a solution together with hungary. but overall, the water quality in austria is excellent. this can be measured against the standards of the european union's bathing water directive. it was one of my first discussions, the first council of environment ministers, which i was allowed to attend as a young minister in march 2003. that was the first time we discussed the bathing water directive, which sets the standards. i can therefore say that we have been able to achieve continuous improvements in the quality of the flowing water and that all austrian lakes have bathing water quality, most of them even drinking water quality. it has cost us billions of euros in investment in wastewater treatment plants, but it is important. in the spirit of this development, we also want to resolve the problem of the raab together with hungary.
the president of the council. as was explicitly stated in the council's annual contribution to the spring european council of march 2005, the effective application of european community environmental law and the need to further improve european policy-making, with a balanced view of economic, social and environmental aspects, are among the council's priorities. the euro-mediterranean ministerial conferences regularly address the issue of environmental sustainability in the mediterranean. and, in implementing the outcomes of the two euro-mediterranean ministerial conferences on environmental issues, held in helsinki in november 1997 and athens in july 2002, efforts are focused on defining a strategic framework and promoting a common approach and joint initiatives to improve institutional and technical capacity in the region. the main aim is to give greater prominence to synergies with other programmes than in the past. the seventh conference of foreign ministers, held in luxembourg on 30 and 31 may 2005, reaffirmed the commission's initiative to eliminate mediterranean associations by 2020. this initiative aims to address all sources of pollution, including industrial emissions, municipal waste and, in particular, municipal waste water. the aim is to improve tourism prospects, increase fish stocks and provide safe drinking water for millions of citizens in these regions. and the mediterranean partners should be supported in this by providing adequate financial resources. the objectives were confirmed at the barcelona euro-mediterranean summit. it also called for a roadmap to clean up the mediterranean by 2020, taking into account comparable sustainable development experiences already gained in the baltic, mediterranean and black sea regions. five european neighbourhood policy action plans have been negotiated and formally adopted with israel, jordan, morocco, tunisia and the palestinian executive authority. negotiations are still under way with egypt and lebanon. in this context, particular interest is urgently needed in environmental protection and water supply, but also in waste water treatment, as well as in the eu's experience with environmental impact assessment and the work of the european environment agency. the deepening of bilateral cooperation should include, in our view, the implementation of multilateral environmental agreements on the protection of the mediterranean and on climate change.
mr president, mr minister, thank you for your answer! as you said, the mediterranean is the most important destination for tourism, so the policy on the marine environment is very important. does the council intend to promote, through the procedures you have mentioned (partnership agreements and the barcelona process), something similar to the framework for a maritime strategy which is already being promoted in the european union by means of the relevant directive? i ask this because we already have a strategy in the directive. so are we going to promote this strategy through our partnerships in the mediterranean? i believe that this will be a much more effective way of protecting the marine environment.
i would like to express my satisfaction with all the findings and proposals made by the rapporteur, mr president, and also to make a few comments. we all know that coastal fishing is a key economic activity in disadvantaged and isolated areas of the european union. in my country, greece, coastal fishing has the largest number of vessels (96% of the fishing fleet) and the highest employment. it needs financial support from the industry to replace and modernise the vessels. the arrival of young workers in coastal fishing, in addition to the family ties they may have, requires the implementation of specific support policies, since the report itself speaks of the economic difficulties of both shipowners and workers and their limited borrowing capacity, factors which have a negative impact on the entry of young people into the profession. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen are not deprived of their right to fish. the role and contribution of women in family-based coastal fishing enterprises must be recognised. the european union should help to organise coastal fishermen by supporting their organisations in setting up transport infrastructure and improving fishing methods. it should be noted here that their organisation does not allow them to be adequately represented in decision-making bodies and at public hearings. one of our objectives in the consultation should therefore be to involve coastal organisations from across the european union in a dialogue in which the priorities and the timetable for its completion at local, regional and european level will be defined.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his really good report. the coastal fisheries are of particular importance. it matters economically, socially, culturally, environmentally. economic, because it provides income to remote island and often poor areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen in the regions concerned are not excluded from the fishing industry. environmental, because this type of fishing does not cause any damage or causes the least possible damage in relation to other species. let us not forget that 44% of the fishing workforce is employed in coastal fishing and 75% of the european union's fishing fleet is coastal fishing. these two numbers tell us a lot. i would like to say that we need to protect coastal fisheries. and when we say protect, we mean ship security. the people who go out to fish must feel that they will return home safely, so modernization must be helped. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the commission will not be able to accept them.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i think that your views on oenological practices and the use of distillation are too well rounded and that the commission may have missed the basic problem arising from this use. i'll put it to you in a nutshell: you said the international wine organization allows these oenological practices. has anyone told you, commissioner, that international practices must necessarily coincide with european ones and that we as europeans are obliged to accept these oenological practices of the new countries that are hitting the european market? has anyone told you, commissioner, that the commission can go to the wto negotiations without having registered geographical indications, which include wine? has anyone told you, commissioner, from society, from the winegrowers, from the winemakers, from the european parliament, that you can create unfair competition on the european market? the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the new rules are applied in the member states, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take the necessary steps to ensure that the new rules are applied in the member states. but who protects european wine? no one in this room assumes that european wine must be what it was produced 100 years ago. no one in this room is assuming that we should not modernise and no one in this room, knowing about the new revision of the wine cmo, will make innovative proposals. but what we are concerned about is that this simple, bloodless use of the term 'rhinestone', which you said can only liberate or make marketable low-quality wines more competitive, can, commissioner, cause the price of high-quality wines, those with a protected name, those with geographical indications, those that no one in world trade can beat, to fall on the commercial market. and you open the back door! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's wine sector is not left behind. i shall not take up too much of your time, commissioner, because we shall be meeting the commissioner in about a month's time and next week in the committee on agriculture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're asking for your help. otherwise we're going to have a very powerful dialogue.
mr president, despite the satisfaction and, in some cases, complacency that has prevailed since the summit, it is clear that the 25 have tried to manage the collective confusion that the institutional crisis and the impasse over the fate of the constitutional treaty continue to cause. i am afraid that the double approach adopted - and this is not the responsibility of the austrian presidency, the problem is more collective for the european union - is nothing but a tactical manipulation of time-keeping or, to put it in terms of footballing news, the 25 are holding up the delay by throwing the ball on the pitch until better conditions are created. but why are we confident, mr schüssel, that 2008 will be better? just because the government has changed in france? i understand that you want to create a climate of optimism, but i ask you: the european council has been a great success, and i am sure that the european parliament will be able to support the work of the commission in this area. i agree with the objectives set for the europe of programmes. but how can we be sure of the positive effects of the completion of the internal market when there is no mention of the need for social and fiscal harmonization and when there is no mention of the need for deepening and economic union alongside monetary union? how can the european central bank decide to raise interest rates when governments and finance ministries have expressed opposing views? the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external relations is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i'm very afraid that these confusions have been exacerbated in terms of absorption capacity. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, on the occasion of the world cup being held in germany, i feel obliged to congratulate the organizers and the german government on the excellent security measures they have put in place, especially in the case of the foreign visitors. in this context, i would like to point out the european parliament's efforts to reward both the resolution on racism in football and the measures to combat forced prostitution during the world cup, which were denounced in parliament's plenary. billions of viewers around the world watch and listen to our message during the broadcast of football matches. it is undoubtedly a unique success of the european parliament. i visited germany during the world cup and i note that the german authorities, in cooperation with fifa, took our requests into account and the measures had positive results. many of them now live in germany the excitement and the passion for their teams and celebrate together for victories. they will return to their homeland where discrimination, racism and xenophobia will await them after the world cup break. let us therefore take as an example this pleasant break which has shown us that europe and the world as a whole can enjoy diversity in a climate of equality, harmony and mutual respect.
mr president, in all the countries of europe there is a capital and a big city: the european union is the world's largest economy, and its economy is the world's largest. in greece, there is no shortage of cities, and they compete for the quality of life of the capital cities. in greece we have the second city, thessaloniki, the symbol of the balkans, a city with a history of two and a half thousand years, named after the sister of alexander the great - it has been there ever since - a city which was the cultural capital of europe ten years ago and is in a bad way! it has three times the infection rate of any other city in europe. it doesn't have 100 meters of bumpy road. there is no tram, no subway, not even a skybridge. people are drowning: to cover five kilometers it takes about two hours! so we have to do something. mrs. hübner was kind enough to tell me that the mayor's position is ineffective: i mean, he hasn't asked for anything. but it does not mean that the people of thessaloniki should live the quality of life they do. we have to do something.
mr president, i would like to denounce to the european parliament today's unacceptable decision by fifa to expel the greek football federation from its ranks and to ban the holding of international matches in greece, the country which hosted such splendid olympic games and where the sporting idea was born and flourished. in reply to a question on the legal framework for professional football, the commissioner responsible, mr figel, said: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a national body to be set up to provide for the organisation of sport in the member states. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, is responsible for ensuring that community law is fully respected and applied. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the commission's proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them into account in its future work. the commissioner himself says: fifa and uefa, to the extent that they carry out economic activities, must ensure that they comply with european community legislation. we have a case law. (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, i would like to express my deep concern about the situation in the middle east and my support for the palestinian people. the events following the abduction of the israeli soldier and the israeli retaliation are affecting the palestinians as a political entity by abducting their representatives, whether ministers or mps, by denying passports and the right of residence to civilians, and are also leading the entire population into poverty by bombing or torching bridges, schools, water and electricity stations. in addition to direct humanitarian aid and an appeal for maturity and responsibility on both sides, we must also set other objectives, analyse the situation, the causes, the aspirations of each side, the means used to achieve them, but we must also analyse our own political behaviour. the european citizens are asking us to defend the principles of legality, international law and solidarity. they also ask us to defend the european national and community resources which finance the infrastructure projects of the palestinian authority which are then destroyed by israeli raids.
member of the commission. mr president, it is my pleasure to join you tonight for this discussion on the report by mr wortmann-kool on the commission’s proposal to repeal regulation (ec) no 4056/86. the commission is very pleased with the report’s recognition that price- fixing liner conferences are no longer justified in today’s market conditions, either legally or economically. the thrust of our proposal is to increase eu competitiveness, much in keeping with the lisbon agenda. roughly 18% of imports and 21% of eu exports are affected by carriers’ ability to fix prices jointly under the liner conference block exemption. the repeal of this block exemption will result in lower transport prices, engendering an overall benefit to the eu economy. that said, the commission has also been concerned with preserving the competitiveness of the eu liner shipping industry. that is why we are preparing guidelines explaining how competition law will apply to the liner sector, once regulation (ec) no 4056/86 is repealed. the commission is committed to promulgating the guidelines by the end of 2007. in view of the two-year transitional period, the guidelines will be in place before the repeal of the liner conference block exemption takes effect, thus giving industry ample time to adjust to a new competitive environment in the knowledge that what it seeks to do is lawful. the commission has been discussing closely with both the transport providers, carriers, and the transport users, shippers, on the content of the guidelines. the focus will be on ensuring the competitiveness of the transport sector. i think we all agree that ensuring competitiveness is not the same as shielding the sector from competition. information exchanges are lawful and are common practice in most industries, because they enable business to make better decisions. however, they must not go so far as to prevent undertakings from determining their conduct in the market independently of each other. the process leading to the adoption of the guidelines by the commission includes discussions with both transport users and transport providers, as well as with the member states in the european competition network’s maritime transport subgroup. draft guidelines will be published so that all interested parties have the opportunity to comment. other institutions may also put forward comments during that time. in other cases, notably in the field of state aids, the european parliament has used this opportunity to make its views known. we look forward to the european parliament’s continued interest in this important initiative. i understand the concerns raised on international issues. i would like to reassure you that we are keeping our trading partners aware of our initiative, explaining the economic and legal reasons that underpin it. these contacts have so far been positive. there is a general acknowledgement that the repeal of the liner conference block exemption by the eu will not cause conflicts of law with third countries and that it is a process that responds to today’s market conditions. overall, the commission can take on board most of the amendments tabled. this should, however, not be in the form of recitals to a legislative text. i believe it should remain a clear and simple repeal of regulation (ec) no 4056/86. however, your recommendations will be reflected in follow-up measures. these include the guidelines, as well as the information updates and the reassessment of other legislative texts such as regulation (ec) no 954/79 on the accession to the un convention on the code of conduct for liner conferences, to which the european parliament has drawn the commission’s attention.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, commissioner, this is not the first time that we have been concerned by the subject we are discussing tonight. we have exchanged views with the european commission in the context of the white paper and in a resolution, which was adopted by a large majority, the european parliament has argued that our merchant fleet, in a competitive and rapidly changing international environment, needs a clear framework within which it must operate and which must guarantee fair and healthy competition. competition is the basis of our economy and our development plan. but it is up to us to anticipate the conditions, the possible side effects, to create the appropriate political framework. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime transport sector is not left to the mercy of the private sector, and that the community's maritime transport sector is not left to the mercy of the private sector. we have asked not to shock the market with the european commission's proposals but to adapt gently and creatively to the new facts. we want our concerns to be taken seriously by the european commission in all cases. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs wortmann-kool, and the committee on transport for putting forward solutions to this problem in its opinion, solutions which i hope will be voted for and accepted by the european commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i agree with the rapporteur that inland transport should not be excluded from free competition. in conclusion, i would like to point out the lack of attention by the european commission to the international dimension of the issue, both in relation to the unctad treaty, whether it will come into force and how member states will be able to change their status, and in relation to the lack of detailed information on the dialogue with our partners china, japan, singapore, india, on the reactions to a possible change of regime. i would like to point out that singapore has already announced that it will continue to maintain the status of the talks. i am therefore waiting for the european commission to respond to this question as to the european union's attitude.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, within the framework of the common maritime policy of the european union, the shipping conferences were set up as a form of association of liner shipping companies with the aim of controlling the strategically profitable sector, the "filet" of maritime transport. similarly, in a more advanced form, are the pools that were later made with the chemical shipping companies. the shipping conferences regulate the routes of the ships' round trips, the ports of call, the number of ships available for each route and the level of the fares. the argument that shipping conferences allegedly offered better and cheaper services to workers is unfounded. precision, poverty, unemployment, degradation and further commodification of services are the harsh realities experienced by workers. the shipping conferences were used for the transport of raw materials and, more generally, in international trade, especially by northern european land and shipping monopolies, ensuring huge, astronomical profits for eu capital. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the shipping industry is not left behind. the aim of the new legislative initiative is obvious. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment, which will be presented to the council in the near future. the concentration and centralisation of capital in this sector has now reached such a stage that a small number of companies, measured on the fingers of one hand, control the transport of scheduled services. a typical european container shipping company operates 550 vessels and another asian one 112 vessels. to talk of competition in these conditions is only hypocrisy. we do not agree with the inclusion of inland transport in the competition rules, just as we do not agree with regulations 4050/86 and 3577/92. the reactionary institutional framework for shipping, the anti-people policy of the european union, are reinforcing the intolerance and the insatiable pursuit of profit by shipowners, creating serious political and social problems in greece, france, finland and ireland. the council and the european commission, in concert with the employers, are of course taking them to the european court of justice. the point is that they will get it because the workers are not willing to give up their rights. inequality of pay for equal work, intensification of the work of seamen, skyrocketing prices of tickets and freight rates, reduction in the frequency of services and the tendency to keep ships on shore routes overly under-supported are characteristic of inland waterway transport. the implementation of the anti-people regulation 3577/92 has already dealt a severe blow to maritime transport and caused serious problems for workers, passengers and residents, particularly in remote areas, on islands. the preservation of the exclusion of exclusively maritime transport (at this point the president asks the speaker to speak more slowly because interpretation is not possible) between ports of the same member state from the application of the competition rules is of strategic importance for the economic development, social cohesion and national defence of the countries. it is therefore necessary to maintain the exemption provided for in article 32 (b) of regulation no 1/2003. we therefore propose amendments nos 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 in this direction. in addition, it is imperative that the anti-people regulation 3577/92 on coastal shipping be repealed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime transport sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
the rapporteur. mr president, as a greek i think i am entitled to say that today we are at the end of a marathon of discussions and negotiations that did not start in 2004, when the commission presented its proposal for the draft general regulation, but much earlier, in 2001, when we started the first discussions on the future of the structural funds for the period 2007-2013. parliament was present throughout this process and made its mark on the discussions and negotiations: on the informal consultations we had with the european commission in principle, on the third cohesion report that followed, and on the interim report on this regulation that was voted on last summer. the message from parliament in all these discussions was twofold: first, a credible cohesion budget for the european union - and i think we were among the forces that prevented some from trying to limit the budget for the new programming period. the second message was the need for an effective regulation without bureaucratic burden but, on the other hand, a regulation which would help to make use of the money of european citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to note the constructive attitude of both the european commission and commissioner hübner and the austrian presidency to these negotiations and thank both sides for their cooperation with the european parliament. today we are called upon to say yes or no to the text we have negotiated. as rapporteur for the general regulation, i would urge my colleagues today to accept this text and to say 'yes' for the following main reasons: parliament, in the context of the negotiation of the financial perspective, secured an additional eur 300 million for transnational and interregional cooperation. parliament also succeeded in linking project financing to accessibility for people with disabilities. for the first time, it is stipulated that projects will not be financed unless they are first made accessible to people with disabilities. we also got civil society involved. despite the council's initial opposition, environmental partners, non-governmental organisations and other actors representing civil society will also be involved in the monitoring committees. the commission has also been asked to provide financial support for infrastructure in regions which are no longer covered by objective 1, the convergence objective, following parliament's pressure, and all these regions have asked for this. we also managed to have a special article on sustainable development and the environment. in other words, we have achieved what we have called for years the greening of the structural funds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the structural funds are not used to harm the environment. at the same time, we have strengthened the policy for cities. member states are obliged to have more specific provisions for urban centres, including a specific list of cities they choose to address the problems involved. we have also signed a bilateral declaration with the commission to look at the consequences of the release of resources due to the n+2 or n+3 rule in the middle of the period, because there may be problems due to this rule. does that mean we're completely satisfied? i'll be honest and say no. i would like to mention the british presidency's gifts which have to some extent altered the coherent logic of the regulation. i would also point out that we have not been able to get our views across on the so-called performance reserve by re-using the funds released as a result of the n+2 or n+3 rule. however, further delay would also mean a delay in the start of implementation of the programmes and this would be negative for the regions and the poorer member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. today we're going from theory to practice. and the best rule - let's not hide - can have problems if it's not applied properly. the great challenge facing us all - the commission, the member states and the regions in particular - is therefore to ensure that the regulation is properly implemented. there are challenges both for the old member states, which must not repeat the mistakes of the past, and for the new member states, which must not repeat the mistakes of some old member states in terms of absorbing and utilising funds. parliament will be present throughout this process to monitor it and to call for corrective action, always in the interests of the poorer member states and regions of the european union. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, all these packages are essentially ineffective unless we relax the maastricht indicators. maastricht's indicators are so suffocating that it's like giving a glass of water to someone who's been tied with a rope around their neck. my country is the only country in europe that is under surveillance, a kind of monetary fund! which means we can't co-finance the packages to get them. a third of the third package we didn't get consistently sell off properties, real estate and businesses to be able to exist as a state. and the fourth package again we won't be able to get the money because we have this surveillance. finally, let us relax the maastricht indicators so that we can absorb the funds, so that we can be active as citizens and as states. it's a free gift! at the moment, the sums we have not received from the third package represent half of the money my country spends on education and health. improve our living conditions at last!
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the very good work they have done over the years. the instruments of cohesion, the structural funds, are what bring europe closer to the citizen. it is particularly important that the european parliament has succeeded, through a long and difficult negotiation, in introducing substantial qualitative changes to the texts of the regulations, changes that will contribute to improving the quality of life of citizens, to creating actions and projects that do not create exclusion, changes that promote sustainable development and the democratisation of the procedures for implementing the funds through the extended partnership and the participation of representatives of civil society. in a time of crisis and european uncertainty, such successes are important and we all need to work not only to promote them but also to ensure that they are properly implemented. the new programming period is difficult. the resources allocated to cohesion are insufficient and the development gaps are wide. it is therefore of particular importance that all these resources, through decentralized, flexible and less bureaucratic procedures, should be able to reach their final recipients in the less developed regions of the old and new states and not return to the rich countries.
in writing. i did not vote in favour of the amended hadjidakis report because it is a substantial departure from parliament's original positions on all major issues and a re-signing of the council's common position on the weakening of regional and social cohesion policies. in particular: - the available resources are falling significantly from 0.41% for the period 2000-06 to 0.37% for the period 2007-13. the resources are eur 28 billion less than the commission's original proposal, which parliament considered to be the minimum funding needed to support cohesion and the environment. - rejects parliament's position on the reuse of funds lost as a result of the strict application of the n+2 rule for regional policy; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources allocated to the structural funds are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - it accepts a clearly weakened financial support for both the 16 regions which are victims of so-called 'statistical convergence', including three greek regions (attica, central macedonia, western macedonia) and the 12 'natural convergence' regions, including two greek regions (greater greece and southern aegean). - i know . it adopts the extension of the n+2 rule to cohesion fund projects, which will cause additional difficulties and losses. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. the framework decision on the structural funds is being used by the eu, the centre-right and centre-left governments to accelerate the objectives contained in the anti-people lisbon strategy to strengthen competitiveness, increase the profitability of capital, promoted through capitalist restructuring, by hitting workers' wage and social rights. the resources of the structural funds are channelled into areas of interest to the profitability of capital and at the same time given "small" in order to "absorb" the popular indignation and to manipulate the workers' movement. while social and regional disparities are increasing in the eu , the share of the structural funds in its budget for the period 2007-2013 is decreasing from 41% to 37%. at the same time, it takes advantage of eu enlargement and urban statistics and excludes from funding areas with major economic problems and huge infrastructure shortages. the european parliament's group of the european people's party votes against the framework decision.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this debate is closely linked to the debate we have just had on structural change in the automobile industry. we agreed that structural change had been with us for a long time and would continue to be so for a long time. i also felt that most people in this room felt that the right answer to structural change was innovation. structural change occurs when a product or process is no longer modern enough. the answer to this cannot be to cut back and leave the field to others, but the answer must be to face this competition through innovation. the commission wants to see the ability and willingness to innovate understood as a guiding political, social and economic principle in the european union. this is not a technical exercise! innovation is indeed something that you first understand in your head and that you have to want. this includes a willingness to accept change. we have put innovation at the heart of our growth and employment strategy for good reason, because a non-protectionist economic order based on freedom cannot survive without innovation. it needs a society that supports and encourages innovation, and it needs a policy framework that encourages innovation. that's what we're doing. we're doing it on two levels. we are doing this at member state level, and it is very important that innovation policies and initiatives are now given a very wide scope in the national reform programmes to implement the lisbon strategy, and the commission will give the highest priority to innovation this year in its review of the lisbon strategy. at european union level, we have already put forward a large number of initiatives recently, all aimed at promoting innovation - from the aid rules, which are now - as was already called for in the debate - specifically geared to innovation, to general financial instruments for the creation of young, innovative companies, to issues of better exploitation of intellectual property and the development of research and development capacities. we are working towards a policy of innovation in one go. i am pleased to report that innovation was the first and foremost topic discussed yesterday at the commission's meeting with the finnish presidency to prepare the programme for the second half of 2006. i am very confident that the finnish presidency is particularly suited to push forward the issue of innovation, because finland is a model example of how a deliberate, targeted and intelligently driven innovation policy can lead to a country's radical modernisation and make it internationally competitive. i always say that we should learn from the good examples of others, so we should do that in this case.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. mr president, on behalf of the committee on employment i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and thanking her for having almost automatically incorporated our committee's position in her report. the promotion of technological research and the acquisition of scientific knowledge are the major challenges for europe in the 21st century. however, research, development and innovation are identified as complex, demanding and costly processes requiring particular political, economic and social management. the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure provided for in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the aid granted to the steel industry. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. this finding could very soon be substantiated in the following four areas of activity: - the continuous upgrading of the structures and activities of educational establishments and research centres, since the driving force of development is the acquisition of knowledge by man; - the diffusion of scientific knowledge in the field of production, redefining both the infrastructure and the skills and abilities of workers; - the implementation of a policy of increasing jobs and fair redistribution of income, since high productivity and poverty lead to recession and unemployment; - the substantial reduction of working time so that the worker can regain his creative self and the lost balance between work and family life. the technological revolution presents two diametrically opposed economic and community perspectives: on the one hand, the creative challenge and, on the other, the threat of widening inequalities. it is up to us, as politicians, to produce and use scientific knowledge in such a way as to re-establish a europe of development, of knowledge, of solidarity and of equality.
mr president, i welcome the commission's new approach to combining european research with innovation. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european innovation centre, the creation of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area and the establishment of a european research area. the first point is that we must network small and mediumsized enterprises with our large enterprises and industry. why would you do that? because small businesses are highly innovative, often more innovative than large ones. however, they are also usually lacking in stable and adequate funding. because, on the contrary, industry and big business have the capital, but they are not always open to investing time and human resources to experiment. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. secondly, we need to put more emphasis on public procurement. why would you do that? because public procurement, i believe, can increase demand and act as a remedy to market gaps and failures. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not going to vote for the report. the member states and the commission should therefore explore the opportunities that exist. finally, commissioner, in the light of this report, i would like to ask you: what european structures are currently fostering innovation in the european union? is there a need for further initiatives or not?
madam president, it is undeniable that the use of technology and innovation in economic, business and commercial activities is making a decisive contribution to dramatically increasing labour productivity and securing new quality jobs. the rapporteur is therefore right to point out - and i sincerely congratulate her on the synthesis of her report - that, despite the fact that the european institutions recognise the vital importance of promoting research and innovation, the european union as a whole is still not making sufficient use of its potential, either in terms of human resources or in terms of funding capacity. the national reform programmes all recognise the challenge of research, innovation and application policies. the achievement of the maximum target rate is not, in my view, as important for funding as the reform of public research systems combined with the restructuring and promotion of the efficiency of university scientific institutions and research programmes and, more generally, the diffusion of interest in knowledge and research in renewed education systems and in efficient lifelong learning programmes. facilitating public-private partnerships and cross-border collaborations are equally important investments for further research and achieving the diffusion of innovation. in addition to public funding, the proper management of community budgetary resources and financial instruments by the commission and access to european investment bank lending should ensure an increase in research activities, especially by smes. in the context of regional convergence in technological innovation and development and the achievement of the single labour market, the intention to involve smes in european technology platforms is welcomed. but performance is maximised by promoting human capital, excellence and the creative collaboration of higher education and lifelong learning institutions with the business and productive sectors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. the commission believes that the result of the premier league media rights auction, which was carried out in compliance with commission decision 38173, will have beneficial effects for english football fans. the longstanding monopoly of bskyb concerning the broadcasting of live premier league matches has ended as a result of this auction. in the auction bskyb acquired four packages – 92 live matches – and setanta acquired two packages – 46 live matches. setanta has now emerged as a viable competitor and will be able to exercise both commercial and pricing pressure on the former monopolist bskyb. the choice for english football and sports fans has also improved. setanta is now in a position to offer an attractive alternative sports programme, including live premier league matches. the commission acted in full compliance with ec competition rules and to the benefit of english consumers. it remains to be seen whether costs for consumers will indeed increase. in a market where at least two players are present, individual operators will have to consider carefully whether they can continue to raise prices for their packages without losing customers. it is also far from certain that the acquisition by a single operator of all live premier league rights would have led to lower costs for english football fans. in the absence of any constraints from competition, it is not impossible that a single operator would have raised the prices for its sports services without compensating for the increase in price by increased choice, as is now available. the commission also notes that english football fans who last season wished to watch more than the 88 live matches offered by bskyb in its basic sports package also had to sign up for a second subscription channel from bskyb, prem plus. the concept of two separate subscription channels is therefore not a novel one for football fans in the uk.
member of the commission. the question is quite clear. one of our principal objectives was to end bskyb’s longstanding monopoly concerning the broadcasting of live premier league matches and i think that this objective has been achieved. in particular setanta has now emerged as a viable competitor to bskyb and will be able to exercise commercial and pricing pressure on bskyb. the sale of the live tv rights to two rival broadcasters already provides consumers with a greater choice than before. how much of an impact this will have will depend on the commercial strategies of bskyb and setanta. it is far too early to say whether the level of competition that this has introduced will be enough. however, given the position of third parties and of the national authorities, if the consumer does not benefit from the fa premier league’s current process, it is inevitable that there will be more discussions at national level about these issues in the future and that would be the time to deal with the premier league. the commission’s article 9 decision cannot and should not prevent this. as the honourable member is aware, not all the competition problems have been resolved, nor would i want the decision to be used against national authorities or courts should they wish to intervene further. i am extremely grateful for the efforts, help and support of the oft and ofcom in this case.
member of the commission. i shall answer the first question. am i serious? yes, i am quite serious. i am aware that sometimes that type of decision is not welcomed by all the honourable members, but i am also aware that i need to fulfil my responsibility. i take the concerns expressed by british consumers and by the honourable members very seriously, because i wish to reduce costs and increase choice for consumers, not the opposite. however, i also believe that the result of the premier league auction will have beneficial effects for english football fans in both the short and long term. consumer welfare cannot be measured solely by considering the position of a person who wants to watch all the matches of one specific team. british sports fans will now have the opportunity to view a significant number of the live premier league matches and other sports through setanta, which offers seven channels at the moment, including, for example, live scottish football, live european football and live rugby. they will be able to do so without having to subscribe to sky sports, an option which previously did not exist. it is also worth noting that, according to press reports, setanta is considering showing matches via a pay television service on the digital terrestrial platform freeview, which would make premier league matches available on digital terrestrial tv for the first time, so that is really something to offer.
commissioner, the television rights to sporting events have been the target of multinational companies for many years and, more recently, of subsidiaries of the major sports federations. the introduction of pay-tv into public life has radically changed its social role. now, among other things, citizens are obliged to pay to enjoy sporting events. mobile telephony and the internet are at the doorstep of the new phenomenon. how is the commission responding to this onslaught? so, any citizen who does not have the necessary support should not have the right to access the olympic games, the world cups and international organizations? what about the list of sports which the member states had to propose and notify to the competent committee of the european union, and which must be broadcast on free television rather than on pay-tv?
vice-president of the commission. madam president, freedom of association is a general principle of community law and the court of justice has clearly recognised this. there is also an important article, article 12 of the european charter of fundamental rights, which provides for the right to freedom of association at all levels, and particularly in the field of trade unions. freedom of association must therefore always be respected. there is also article 137 of the treaty which states, more specifically, that those same provisions do not apply to the right of association. what is the consequence? there is a freedom of association which is very clearly established in the european charter of fundamental rights, but the treaty does not give the commission the power to intervene, for example against a private company which infringes the right of association. in such cases it is for the national authority, and in particular the judicial authority, to ensure that that right is respected. this is obviously a matter for the courts to decide, simply because there is no concrete rule in the treaty to make a commission power of intervention applicable.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the company vaquenout, after the dismissal of the trade unionist peter kefala, launched a new prosecution against nic bessi, which is pending. i have just come from a hearing of trade unionists representing workers from the opel car company. apart from the partial differences that exist, opel is also threatening to lay off thousands of workers. in our view, the new labour law that is being drafted is creating and inflating the sails for the dismissal of thousands of workers. what steps is the commission taking to ensure trade union representation and the application of labour law to labour objectives?
madam president, you've excluded me from the show! my question was announced! if that is the commissioner's wish, i bow to his wishes, but if that is your choice, madam president, you should know that it is really unacceptable to deny a member of parliament the opportunity to discuss with the commissioner here. i also tell you that it's been six months since you gave me the floor.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, we have answered an earlier written question. i can only confirm to the honourable member that we have received, relatively recently, the additional documentation from the complainant. the subject is extremely complex, as it has implications in several areas of community law. that is why, as i have been informed, the commission has not yet completed its examination of the supplementary documentation. i can assure the honourable member that we intend to speed up the examination of these additional comments to the utmost and finally give an answer, even though the question is extremely complex from a legal point of view.
the same answer you gave me about a year ago, that you were looking into the matter. i ask you, therefore, when we have laws which prohibit the application of decisions of the greek courts which entitle workers to social security benefits or payment orders, how can the commission be allowed to stand in the way and delay, justifying the arbitrariness of the greek government to the detriment of the greek judiciary? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. when the law prohibits the enforcement of court decisions, will the commission again stand idly by?
vice-president of the commission. madam president, i would like to express my regret and i understand your disappointment. we started to look at these additional documents as soon as they came to us, at the end of last year, in december 2005. like you, i am fully aware that a long time has passed, but there are - as i am told - legal problems which do not concern only the legislation which the complainant believes has been infringed. there are other provisions involved and i can only tell you that i will be sending the request to the directorate-general responsible and to my colleague mr špidla to speed up the technical examination considerably. like you, i'm aware of the situation.
madam president, my question is not supplementary on this subject, i just want to express my surprise too because i had question no 54; i am not going to go into the details of the procedure, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative in this matter. and i want you to tell me, madam president, whether it is something original on your part today or something customary, something you have the right to do, because then we should not be watching the series in earnest and we should be prepared to come and watch the commissioner's reply. i am very grateful to you in advance and i hope that there will be no more such phenomena because they offend us, since we submit questions in good time and respectfully await our turn.
i would ask the commissioner, madam president, if he could please make a point to his colleagues about what is national and what is commission competence, so that colleagues do not ask the commission to play the policeman in national matters from time to time.
vice-chairman of the commission . madam president, the answer is simple: i have no right to ask or lecture anyone, let alone this parliament. i listen with respect to what you say.
it is a very serious matter indeed for a greek colleague to speak in this way against colleagues in plenary proceedings. let me say this, without political babble, with a sense of responsibility and time that is precious to all of us: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but when it comes to workers' problems, we see a deliberate obstruction ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission's systematic and detailed approach to this matter is very important to me, mr president. i also think that the report by the committee on industry, research and energy has made some important points. i would like to recall some of the amendments which i tabled and which are part of the text. the following are the main areas of cooperation: it is an important link in the processing chain and, along with services, should be given equal attention. evaluation: systematic evaluation of initiatives such as high-level groups, innovation panels, working groups can provide useful insights. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. 4. the primary wealth, research potential and any other comparative advantage of each region must be taken seriously into account in local strategic plans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, i think it is essential to link the training provided to the dynamic needs of the market, both in terms of the number of trainees and the subject of the training. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union's policy in the field of air transport, mr president, is also based on automatically strengthening the competitiveness of monopoly airline groups in order to increase their profits. in our view, there are two main factors which have a direct bearing on the strengthening of the safety rules for flights: the human factor and the situation, the airworthiness of aircraft. although the trade union representatives have at times officially expressed strong concern about the intensification and exhausting working hours of workers, and the degradation of the training provided for cabin workers and promoted by the relevant regulation, unfortunately these elements are not taken into account. it is characteristic that the exhausting hours of flight deck workers increase the risks to flight safety. another key parameter, for which there is also a corresponding letter dated 8.10.2004 from the graduate aircraft technicians of olympic aviation and a corresponding reply letter - which i have in front of me - dated 18.01.2005 from mr barrot, concerns pre-flight checks. i would like to draw your attention to a very serious matter. in the second paragraph of mr barrot's letter, in reply to the representatives of the trade unions responsible for the airworthiness checks of aircraft, it is stated that 'as regards the pre-flight inspection, the analysis of the current legal situation at european union level (law 2042/2003) confirms that pre-flight inspections are not considered technical'. have mercy! if pre-flight inspections on aircraft are not technical, what should they be? we really think that aircraft inspections should be reinstated and carried out by engineers who are regrouped in accordance with part-66 (aircraft maintenance personnel licensing).
mr president, i have no illusions that anything could change with the finnish presidency. it will continue to pursue the same reactionary, anti-people policy and militarization of europe for the next six months. it's confirmed in her schedule. the first choice is to work together to resurrect the euro-constitution, even though it has been condemned and rejected by the peoples of france and the netherlands. promotion of competitiveness for the greater profitability of eu capital by the harsher exploitation of workers. tax exemptions for capital and new taxes for employees in the context of the development of the european union's tax regulations. the green paper on labour law is designed to make legally disappear all the gains and rights won by the labour movement through its struggles. in terms of relations with russia, she is the most sought-after bride in the competition with the united states. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody in turkey, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in turkey. we can't let that happen. we will support any action by the working class movement against this policy.
in writing. the report proposes new measures to tackle popular struggles at national and european level, and to strengthen cross-border police cooperation at eu international events. in a provocative way, it provides for the establishment of a "calendar of international events" held each year to plan and organise the cooperation of repressive mechanisms in the eu to deal with popular mobilizations. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and the council has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and the council has been asked to take a decision on the matter. the peoples of europe have seen firsthand the murderous action of the eu's repressive mechanisms in gothenburg, genoa and other countries. they face daily the curtailment of their most basic rights and freedoms. the kke votes against the report. it will help to develop a resistance movement by the workers' and people's movement at national and european level to defend the people's freedoms. the european union and its governments have a duty to respect the rights of the peoples of the world, and to respect the rights of the peoples of the world.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr fava and the rapporteur for the council of europe, mr dick marty. the investigation into the discovery of this international criminal must go on and expand, despite the resistance of those who wish to downplay and cover up this scandal. and i am truly sorry that some of my colleagues in this chamber refuse to see the facts and facts and prefer the path of ideological fanaticism and prejudice to that of their colleagues in the same wing of the council of europe. we have an obligation to seek the truth and we owe it to the citizens of europe and to the long democratic and humanitarian traditions of our continent. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action against terrorism, and that it is able to do so in a way that is compatible with the principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. evidence suggests that the heads of the intelligence agencies were aware of the activities of the american agents and perhaps some of the government officials were also aware of and turned a blind eye. it is not possible that in five years 32 planes have flown over a thousand times and nobody knows anything.
mr. president, it is often said that to find the crime, follow the money. in this case, you have to follow the planes. in recent months, a series of seemingly innocent flights between europe and america has highlighted the huge issues that arise when one tries to fight terrorism by ignoring fundamental rights. in the first case, the cia hijackings, over 1,000 us intelligence flights landed and took off from european airports. and yet they have not been subjected to any scrutiny by the competent european authorities, who, even if they did not cooperate directly with them, preferred the doctrine of 'i do not see, i do not hear, i do not speak'. in the second, in a rare case of hasty government cooperation at european level, a perfunctory agreement, known as pnr (transfer of passenger name records), was signed with the us, without not only sufficient proof of the necessity of the measures but without even the most elementary guarantee of binding us commitments to the safe and legal use of our data. the european governments are now obliged, individually and in cooperation with each other, to take all necessary measures to ensure that the illegal flights of the cia will not be repeated. this requires at a minimum explicit instructions to their civil aviation so that at least the planes we know were cia planes and at least the shell companies we know were cia companies are controlled from here on out. and of course, more effective and democratic control of their intelligence services. i would like to thank you and, on behalf of all of us, to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr claudio fava, for his excellent work.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the members who have spoken. their speeches have given me many very useful insights. i can confirm that the european commission is ready to continue working with the temporary committee of this parliament on many of the substantive issues that have been raised. mr ludford touched on the implementation of anti-terrorism legislation by the member states, a central issue which obviously needs to be worked on. as you know, five member states of the european union have not yet transposed the european framework decision on combating terrorism. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the draft agreement on extradition between the united states and the european union. some speakers, such as mr swoboda and mr in't veld, spoke of the possibility and the need to work together for greater security and greater freedom. i fully agree with the proposal for a structured political dialogue with the united states of america on the subject of combating terrorism and at the same time on the subject of safeguarding freedoms. i can tell you that i had already thought about this and that, as far back as last february, i proposed at expert level that this dialogue should be launched, and it has now been launched. i believe that this dialogue can continue, i know that the finnish presidency intends to pursue this subject and i believe that there will be the possibility of an exchange of views with parliament on this overall europe-us framework, on the fight against terrorism and on the guarantees of freedom. i believe, moreover, that the guantanamo ruling of the us supreme court shows how the system of legal control of guarantees and rights in the american democratic system works and i believe that this is a basis of comfort for our joint work. i am also ready to engage in a dialogue with parliament on the lines of restructuring of the intelligence system, including democratic and parliamentary control of the services, although as you know, the competence is strictly national legislation, but i think a political debate on this would be useful. it will also be useful to discuss the use of airspace for non-civil aviation and i can confirm that a reflection is under way on the notion of state aircraft and flights for institutional and state missions; i have gathered some very interesting views on the role of national courts, which have the right to give an answer on individual responsibility when the conditions are right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, mr president, i have a moral and institutional obligation, first of all to myself, to respond to a personal attack which i received from mr catania, the only one of the 54 speakers who asked me for the fourth time to clarify my role as former foreign minister at the time of the abu omar affair. i think that this request, to which i have already replied several times before the libe committee, may perhaps earn mr catania some headlines in the italian newspapers, but i believe that the duty of truth to this parliament would impose on him what is imposed on me: i would like to remind you that the government of the time formally denied knowledge of the abu omar case and did so without any evidence to the contrary, but that according to italian law - and we are not talking about opinions - the minister of foreign affairs, as i was at the time, not only cannot, but must not be aware of the operational activity of the italian secret services. this is information on italian law which mr catania knows but which many of you do not.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 6 july 2006, at 12 noon.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the access of the us intelligence services to swift bank transfer data.
mr president, the swift scandal, combined with the problematic rationale of the recent european court of justice ruling on the otherwise correct overturning of the pnr (transfer of passenger name records) agreement, highlights an extremely dangerous grey area that tends to be created around the use of sensitive personal data to combat terrorism. in particular, any third country, and not just the united states, now seems to be able - even if only in name, citing reasons of its own national security - to determine: first, the level of decision-making in the european union, that is, whether decisions are taken at community or national level; second, what european legislation will apply; and third, the level of access, use and protection of the data of millions of innocent citizens, which are collected and kept - beware! - by private companies, not even by police authorities, and for private reasons. this legal black hole must be closed immediately. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the pillars here cannot be applied: pnr, swift, data retention, all of these private individuals are collecting data, police are using it under the guise of terrorism. there are no pillars. it's one thing.
president of the council. i have listened very carefully to this debate and i can see that we have a strong consensus that civil liberties and data protection issues must also be taken into account in the fight against terrorism. the presidency takes this matter very seriously and, as has been said, the supervision of swift is the responsibility of the belgian central bank and we are also currently awaiting with interest what the belgian authorities will reveal. if these ongoing studies reveal elements requiring legislation at union level or harmonisation of legislation, this will be taken into account in the consideration of draft legislation in preparation. the matter is so important that it deserves to be discussed in the justice and home affairs council, and that is how we will proceed.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the suggestions i have received from the debate. i think it can be said that the swift case has a peculiarity, which has led me to say to you today that the 'first pillar' directive of 1995 on data protection is probably the one applicable. this is because the data transfer took place between swift belgium and swift usa, i.e. between two private branches of a private organisation. that is why my interpretation - except of course what the belgian government authorities will tell us - is that the notification to the data protection authority and the national responsibilities of the competent bodies, in this case, would be there. unlike the pnr case, which mr lambrinidis rightly mentions, where there was a transfer between a private airline directly to a us public body, in this case the transfer is between two private parties. and then it happens that on american soil, according to american law, that data transmitted for commercial reasons is used for security purposes. that's the structural difference. the consequence, as mr lambrinidis has pointed out, is that there is a grey area which must be regulated absolutely. there are, in my view, two immediate possibilities: the first, to be implemented with the help of the council and the presidency, is to adopt swiftly the commission's proposal for a framework decision under the third pillar, aimed at protecting the confidentiality of personal data. it is clear that we would have covered at least one area, the one where data is transmitted for security reasons, for investigation, for the fight against terrorism. the first pillar would remain, namely the transition between two private entities for commercial reasons. a third aspect would be missing: the transmission between a member state and a third state, i.e. not data transmitted within the european union to a third state, but from a single member state directly to a third state. this is a third aspect which i think needs to be examined. if we tackle these three points together, which frankly do not concern a dispute with the united states of america but concern all third countries, we can get past that grey area.
i have received five motions for resolutions1under rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 6 july 2006, at 12 noon. 1 and the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
president of the council. mr president, we need very long-term cooperation with the countries of origin and transit in order to improve the conditions in those countries and thus alleviate the pressure of illegal immigration in particular in the long term. it is clear that in this area of external relations policy, adequate resources and instruments are also needed to be able to exert an effective influence.
president of the council. mr president, the european labour market and the functioning of this labour market system are of course one of the key issues that have a direct impact on immigration policy, and therefore these various elements must be discussed and solutions found. the legalization of illegal immigrants is, of course, a rather complex issue in itself, with a great deal of significance for the individual and his legal security, but large-scale legalization procedures also have their own advantages and disadvantages, and it must be remembered that the effects can be union-wide. in the end, such legalisation is a matter for the national authorities of the member states of the european union, but it is useful to provide information and also to have a political debate.
president of the council. mr president, labour mobility and the availability of foreign labour in the member states of the european union is not only a question of immigration and the labour market but also a question of european competitiveness. the question was whether this was still a matter for the member states. it is of course difficult to see and know in the long term where these policy decisions will go, but it is important to have a political debate on matters which fall within the national competence, because - as i have just said - decisions taken in individual member states have significance and impact also in the wider union.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the integration of thirdcountry nationals legally resident in the member states is a permanent challenge for european societies and a key to strengthening their social and political cohesion. the hague programme on freedom, security and justice recognises the importance of integration policy in promoting the stability and cohesion of our societies. the hague programme also mentions the need for better coordination of national policies. in november 2004, the council and the representatives of the governments of the member states adopted conclusions on the establishment of common basic principles for the integration of migrants in the european union. the common basic principles state that integration is a dynamic, two-way process of mutual understanding and adaptation in which all immigrants and residents of the member states participate. member states are therefore encouraged to take account of and include both immigrants and nationals in their integration policies. close interaction between immigrants and nationals of member states is a fundamental means of integration. the common basic principles state in particular that common meeting places for intercultural dialogue, the dissemination of information about immigrants and their cultures and the improvement of living conditions in urban areas improve interaction between immigrants and citizens of the member states. the common basic principles are based on the council conclusions of december 2005, which took into account the commission communication 'a common action plan for integration - a framework for the integration of third-country nationals in the eu'. the communication was issued in september 2005. the importance of integration in the context of the immigration policy of the community and its member states and the need to further develop action in this area have been recognised in a number of initiatives, including the commission's communication on a policy plan on legal immigration. in the above context, it is emphasised that members of the host society must contribute to creating opportunities for migrants to participate in european societies in different ways. this is mutually beneficial for both european citizens and third country nationals. other community actors and institutions, such as the parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, can also make a significant contribution to the participation of eu citizens in the integration of third-country nationals in the union.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, i would like to ask whether there are going to be structures in place where european citizens can express their views on the integration of immigrants from third countries, so that there can be mutual acceptance and mutual respect in order to better integrate these immigrants into society. does the finnish presidency envisage proposing such structures for direct participation of citizens in such decisions?
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as we are well aware, at present the citizens of all the countries of the western balkans, with the exception of croatia, are required to have a visa when travelling to the european union. the visa requirement, as has been brought up in this debate, naturally complicates travel and increases costs. however, it must be remembered that this is a key element in the control of the union's external borders. i fully understand that the european union's visa system is seen in the western balkans as a hindrance, even a factor in slowing down the process of convergence with the union. the former yugoslav territory still remembers the time when visas were not required. it is clear that the mobility of young people and students, for example, must be facilitated. this will support free access to information, open democracy and social development. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the eu has identified the western balkan countries as potential candidate countries. they have a clear eu perspective, which also means that they will eventually be granted visa-free travel. however, there is still a long way to go before visa-free travel can be negotiated. the visa waiver requires significant administrative reforms by the western balkan countries, including strengthening document security and fighting organised crime and corruption. the european council already at its thessaloniki summit in the summer of 2003 recognised the importance of the visa issue for the western balkan countries. the commission has subsequently discussed with each western balkan country the necessary administrative capacity to facilitate and, in the long term, to liberalise the visa regime. in january 2006, the commission adopted a communication on the western balkans, in which it put forward a number of proposals, including those for visa facilitation under the hague programme. the council is committed to implementing the proposals of the thessaloniki agenda and has also stated its support for the proposals put forward by the commission. an important step towards increasing mobility is the forthcoming regulation on local border traffic of the european parliament and the council, which will make it easier for people living in the eu's external border areas to cross the eu. this is particularly important for the western balkans, as bulgaria and romania join the eu. the commission is also making proposals, at the council's request, to open negotiations on visa facilitation agreements with all the western balkan countries. specific actions would be taken, inter alia, to promote exchanges of researchers and students and to facilitate the movement of other specifically identified groups of persons. visa facilitation agreements are community agreements negotiated separately within the framework of the schengen rules. they are closely linked to the readmission agreements which the hague programme makes conditional on visa facilitation. the union thus also benefits from this arrangement, as the western balkan countries commit themselves at the same time to take back to the eu third-country nationals who have illegally crossed through them. albania is currently the only country with a readmission agreement in force with the union. the western balkan countries have bilateral readmission agreements with many eu member states, so we expect the negotiations at community level to go smoothly. the commission has already made proposals for negotiating both a visa facilitation agreement and a readmission agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. these negotiating mandates are now being examined by the council at working group level. once the council has adopted them, the commission can enter into negotiations. the commission is expected to submit proposals for mandates for the other western balkan countries in july. the working groups shall endeavour to examine the proposals as soon as possible for a decision by the council. in its june conclusions, the general affairs and external relations council hoped that the visa flexibility and readmission agreement mandates would be adopted this year, so that visa flexibility negotiations with all western balkan countries could be concluded by the end of next year. we hope to conclude the first agreements this year. as the finnish presidency, we will try to support this target timetable, which would also make it possible for the visa fee increases coming into force next year not to affect the western balkan countries at all.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the views of the honourable members are all in the right direction, which is the same direction that the european commission intends to follow, and i am very encouraged by the words of the president-in-office of the council. the commission shares the european vocation of the western balkan countries, because it considers them to be a strategic region for europe. we have worked very hard over the last six months with the austrian presidency and we hope that there will be urgent measures that can be taken. these urgent measures will be the subject of an overall package which will be the subject of a political agreement with all the western balkan countries concerned. firstly, there will be measures to facilitate the visa system, and i refer to certain categories: first of all, we want to encourage students, researchers, the business community to move more freely in order to attract investment and to invest. it will be a simplified system in terms of procedures and also in terms of the availability of visas, which, i agree with the honourable members, is currently too restrictive. in the same system of political agreement, we also envisage agreements for the readmission of illegal immigrants. we have already done so in some cases, for example with albania, where the agreement has been signed and has already entered into force. this is a europe-albania agreement on the return of illegal immigrants from albania. it is clear that we are aiming, as the president-in-office of the council has just said, at the rapid conclusion of similar agreements with other states. it is also clear that the concerns of the member states will have to be taken into account. these concerns concern above all the level of security in terms of preventing corruption, preventing and combating organised crime and various forms of trafficking, including, unfortunately, human trafficking in the region. we will ask these countries to cooperate more with europe to improve the conditions for combating organised crime and corruption. in this context, a measure which we believe will be useful in persuading certain member states, which have raised objections in recent months, is to ask them to obtain, as soon as possible, passports which comply with european standards, that is to say, with the security rules for combating the forgery of passports and identity documents. this will help to avoid the circulation of people with false identities. i believe that there is political willingness on the part of the countries in this region. i have personally met all the interior ministers and also the prime ministers of the countries in this region and i inform you that i will be submitting to the commission before 15 july the requests for a mandate to negotiate visa facilitation agreements for all the countries of the western balkans. i will do so for albania. it has already been done for macedonia, because the commission approved my proposal a few weeks ago. all the countries of the western balkans will see our formal proposal to the council by 15 july. the proposal will be announced, i believe, on 15 july at the foreign ministers' council, the first council under the finnish presidency. i intend to give a first briefing on the details of the proposals, if the presidency, as i hope, will consider it, as early as 24 july to the council of ministers of the interior, to whom i will of course hand over the copy of the documents which the commission has approved. i very much hope, indeed i am sure, having spoken with the ministers representing the presidency, that by the end of this year there will be a real possibility of approving as many mandates as possible to negotiate visa facilitation agreements. this will have two immediate consequences: the first is that we will be able to bring into force the visa facilitation agreements and, in parallel, the readmission agreements, by 2007, and therefore in the short term. i hope that the negotiations will be short, if there is, as i hope, the political will. this will mean not only that, from 2007, the western balkan countries will enjoy a visa facilitation regime, but also that these countries will not be obliged to undergo the €60 increase in visa costs, which has already been decided by the council. i am sure that all the countries of the western balkans will fall into this category, and that they will therefore have an administrative, bureaucratic and even a preferential visa regime and, moreover, will not have to bear the increased cost. that is the precise timetable i intend to follow, there is already an agreement within the european commission with mr rehn, who is responsible for enlargement, and so within a few days the negotiating proposal will be on the council's table.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i too would like to thank the minister, representing the finnish presidency, and commissioner frattini for their information. i would like to express my particular concern that, three years after the decisions of the thessaloniki european council, there has been no progress in changing the visa system. and i believe that what the finnish presidency spokesman and commissioner frattini have said today is of course positive, but, commissioner, we cannot wait until the end of 2007 for the process of changing the visa system to be completed. the end of 2007, i'm afraid, will be too late. the problem is not procedural, but deeply political. it is a matter of the strategic credibility of the european union. it is a question of contributing to peace, stability, cooperation and the strengthening of the european integration of the western balkan countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because the visa regime is much more simplified for young people from pakistan and iran to enter the european union, and not for young people from the western balkans. why, commissioner, have the visa fees been increased to eur 60? i understand what you have just said, that it will not apply if the agreements are signed. but i'm afraid 2007 will be too late. i think that the increase should not apply to these countries from now on. i think that the european union must finally send a strong message, say no to ghettoization ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, i am convinced that the smooth integration of migrants into europe is a challenge equal to this successful enlargement of the union. the more than 40 million immigrants in the union today make up one twenty-sixth of the population of the member states. yet, unlike policies to smooth the integration of candidate countries, the european union has in recent years allocated relatively few staff and money to the great challenge of integrating migrants. the eu council, in his honour, explicitly expressed its commitment to the integration of migrants in tampere in 1999. and he reinforced this position at the thessaloniki summit under the greek presidency in 2003. i would also like to congratulate the commission and mr franco frattini personally on the excellent working document on the integration of immigrants which they adopted a few months ago, with an emphasis on the common basic principles of groningen. but the reality still falls far short of the expectations that have been created. unfortunately, the union has long been paralysed by the widespread view that integration is a local matter and that europe as a whole cannot help it. the integration actions are indeed based on local level. schools, businesses, places of worship, and other agencies of a local community carry out the painstaking work of bringing newcomers and natives together on a daily basis. however, integration is a pan-european issue in terms of its impact, especially when it fails. thus, while local, regional and national authorities must define the precise integration measures in each case, member states as a whole must devise effective integration strategies whose fruits will further the common interests of the union. the european union institutions can and must be much more active and, above all, more effective in monitoring and evaluating these programmes objectively. my report stresses that the integration of immigrants entails both obligations and rights for immigrants and for the citizens of the member states. the report's proposals are based on the need to start consultations on ending the political and social marginalisation of migrants and on encouraging their social and, above all, psychological integration, so that they do not feel condemned to be marginalised. the language of the host country, customs, customs and the functioning of state institutions should be taught to all migrants, while the state should provide them with the opportunity to freely express their cultural identity and equal access to education, jobs, housing, etc. the report stresses, among other things, the importance of adopting positive action measures to integrate immigrants into the educational and employment structures of the member states and into the structures of political parties in the member states. it called on the member states to implement immediately, fairly and without prohibitive restrictions the existing directives on racism and xenophobia, family reunification, equal treatment in employment and longterm resident status. it stresses the importance of providing for the right of citizenship for all longterm immigrants, and in particular for the children of immigrants who have been born and raised among us. it proposes that member states appoint a minister with overall coordinating responsibility for integration and an immigrant advocate. should eu countries take in more immigrants? if so, how many and how? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. on the contrary, the answer to the question whether we should seek the smooth integration of immigrants already living and working among us is self-evident. they must become full members of our societies. anything less would indicate that we accept and prefer a society of first- and second-class citizens. such a policy would undermine the social and economic fabric of our societies. in other words, it would be unfair and would not benefit anyone. in conclusion, i would like to thank all the political groups, the shadow rapporteurs and the coordinators, and in particular you, patrick, merci beaucoup, because i know how difficult it was for all of us to promote this report. i thank you all for your important amendments to the committee on civil liberties which have made this report stronger and richer. i thank jannine especially for this. i know it hasn't always been easy for all of us to find the perfect combinations, but we've tried and succeeded with many. thank you again.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have gathered many suggestions from the reports and the questions put and for this i warmly thank the two rapporteurs and all the authors of the other documents discussed today. in my speech i shall try to define the guidelines for the action which the commission is taking, also because all the honourable members know that only six or seven months ago there were many doubts within the european councils about the truly european and non-national dimension of the great challenge of managing migration flows globally. the most important political fact, which is often mentioned but sometimes forgotten, is that, from november to december last year, the european council finally expressed a common voice, that is, it recognized, developing what was the intuition of thessaloniki 2003, that immigration requires a global approach and this global approach can only be european. it is a political step of undoubted importance and we are called upon today to implement the action plan. this action plan is translated into a series of concrete initiatives which you are all familiar with: the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past few months, some of which have been the subject of your reports and questions. for example, one of the key principles for european action is the principle of solidarity between the member states of the union. this principle implies many things: firstly, it means that the member states undertake to support each other if one of them is subject to particular migratory pressure. the second aspect of the principle of solidarity is precisely what mr gaubert's report deals with and which i very much appreciated. it is a report that arises from a proposal i made in 2005 when i realised the need to make more stable the mutual prior information of each member state that legitimately wanted to take initiatives in the field of immigration, when these initiatives have an impact on other member states. the establishment of a consultation mechanism is another way of applying the principle of solidarity. we must not forget that what happens within the borders of each state has repercussions on other states. this is the mechanism of mutual consultation and information. i welcome all the proposals in mr gaubert's report, including additional proposals such as a permanent political dialogue at ministerial level and also the proposal to have an annual report - which the commission is pleased to present to this parliament every year - on the operation of this mechanism. it was said by those before me: "for this mechanism to work, mutual trust between member states is needed". if there is no mutual trust, we can write the rules, but the rules will just stay on paper". it is therefore necessary to exercise political persuasion with regard to the member states, explaining to them that if they do not communicate, if they do not inform the other states in a real spirit of european sharing, then, as the italian saying goes, 'it may go well for one at a time but it will go badly for another'. so it is in everyone's interest to be totally transparent at all times, and that is the spirit of mr gaubert's report, which i share. what are the broad lines of european immigration policy? firstly, a challenge which must be global and european. secondly - and this is the most innovative aspect - the role of the european union on the international scene as a unique actor, for example and above all in the neighbouring geographical areas, i am referring in particular to africa, the mediterranean area and our neighbours in the east: these are the three major geographical areas where europe must take concrete political action as a single actor in order to have a single voice. within this political challenge, what are the things to do? first, to tackle at european level the root causes of immigration. mr lambert has just said very correctly that: "we must transform migration from desperation into migration by choice of people who freely decide to go to live and work in the european union, but who are not forced to flee because their countries are poor, because there is no drinking water, or because the environment is destroyed. so what do we do? to orient european development aid policies towards strategies that address the lack of local development. for example, targeted interventions in the countries of origin of migration flows to promote investment and the restructuring of the agricultural system or the environmental fabric, which is very often devastated and degraded. we are thinking about projects to be financed together with the world bank to use the remittances of legal immigrants and invest them in their homeland - if they want to, of course. but what's the obstacle? very often immigrants do not have access to bank credit and so in this regard, we want to promote credit services more available to invest, for example, in a small or medium-sized enterprise in a home country. we are developing projects for so-called microcredit to help the recovery of many investment points in the countries of origin. this work will have a global political development, represented by the contribution of europe, which i hope will really speak with one voice, at the september session of the united nations, which is commonly referred to as the high level dialogue on migration and development. this session will take place on the sidelines of the united nations general assembly, it is a session which will focus on the relationship between immigration and the development of the countries of origin, and europe will present - by means of a proposal which i will present to the commission a few days before the summer break - a strategic document, the european commission's contribution to this reflection, which is, i believe, the first issue we must address. the second theme is the fight against human trafficking, as mentioned by mr klamt. you will be aware that human trafficking is now one of the main sources of income for unscrupulous organized crime. we now have very clear information on the traffic flows, the origin of the traffickers and even the price charged to each of the desperate people who are being transported without even a guarantee of arriving alive. on average, traffickers charge these desperate people a huge sum, between $1,500 and $2,500 each, without even a guarantee that they will make it across the mediterranean alive. it is clear that the fight against human trafficking must go hand in hand with the protection of victims of trafficking and therefore with the issue of vulnerable victims, immigrant women, children who are victims of trafficking in illegal immigrants. i believe that in this connection, and this is what we must do, we must also consider a return policy as a european action towards those who cannot remain because they have no right to remain on european territory. i believe that european return operations must be organized by setting standards with the united nations organizations for individual respect, not only for the rights but also for the dignity of these people who must be returned, but they must be returned in full compliance with the standards established by international conventions. in this context we are working on readmission agreements. we have very ambitious challenges at the moment, such as concluding readmission agreements with morocco and then with algeria as soon as possible, once again on a european scale, and no longer on a bilateral basis between states, in order to increase this political dimension of europe. the third theme is legal immigration, which i see as an opportunity, and certainly not as a threat. it is clear that in the area of legal immigration we must respect national rules. it is enough to recall, for example, that even in the constitutional treaty we signed in rome, we made it clear that the number of immigrants who can enter each country is determined at national level, but, having said that, i think that common rules on the admission of legal immigrants are necessary and i fully share the opinion of those who said: "we do not ask for and recruit only highly skilled immigrant workers because we risk impoverishing the countries of origin through the brain drain". our intention is rather to promote circulation because it is clear, as some have said, that many immigrants want to return to their country of origin, to their homeland, and we must help them in this. but then europe needs seasonal workers, agricultural workers, workers in many sectors who are not highly skilled but who are useful and so we can limit ourselves to engineers, doctors or researchers, because that would cause impoverishment in the countries of origin. the fourth theme is integration, and mr lambrinidis knows how much i appreciate his work, and particularly this report, because up to now integration has not been considered for what it really is: this is an integral part of migration policy. i dare say this: "it would be irresponsible to welcome immigrants without integrating them because it would only increase their frustration, their sense of isolation". and it is precisely in this connection that our proposals call for a focus on the key areas of civil rights, housing, education and, of course, regular and not illegal work. we have proposed, and are putting into effect, a permanent european forum for integration, and local governments will have an important say in that forum. how long have we forgotten the mayors, the regional governors, the civil society associations? and when we talk about integration, we cannot think only of the capitals of the member states. the european integration forum will deal with this very issue and i hope that parliament will support the adoption of the european integration fund. it is not a fund that replaces national policies, but one that makes them more efficient. the fifth theme is illegal immigration. i am about to promote an initiative which the commission is expected to adopt on 19 july on certain guidelines for illegal immigration. firstly, i believe that a genuine strategy for education and communication should be promoted in the countries of origin. aspiring immigrants do not know what the rules are when they arrive in europe, they do not know the language, they do not know the job opportunities, they do not know the laws of the european countries which they will have to respect and so why not think, and this is one of the proposals, to vocational training courses, to language courses in the countries of origin that europe can encourage and even co-finance to prepare for legal and necessary immigration. it is clear that if we want to defeat illegal immigration, we must defeat black labour, because black labour is exploitation and it is also a factor of attraction for new illegal immigration. the sixth theme is urgent prevention measures and practical support for member states in greatest difficulty. the mission to the canary islands is decided, thirteen member states have agreed to participate, they will provide naval and air assets for patrolling the atlantic coast in front of the canary islands. a second european mission will then be sent to malta to assist the mediterranean patrol. i believe that these are actions which, for the first time, and i emphasize this again, are coordinated by the frontex agency, that is, by europe. it is not the actions of individual member states that are coming together but there is a european agency that coordinates the work. it is urgently necessary to take measures to patrol and not only that, but also to save lives at sea, because the humanitarian aspect of this immense tragedy is that every week in the mediterranean, in the sea of my country, we see people dying at sea and very often we are not even able to recover their bodies. so these are also absolutely essential actions. finally, the seventh theme, aid to the countries of origin and transit of immigrants. we must give them practical help, we must work with them, and i say this in a spirit which replaces the usual tone of international relations with genuine partnership. i am about to attend the rabat conference which will take place on monday and tuesday next week, in morocco. at this conference, for the first time, african countries and europe will meet to work out a joint action plan. i believe that we will then need to create a tool for the constant monitoring of the initiatives we will take in the next few days and that a second meeting will then be necessary, this time with the aegis of the african union. i believe that the future is the african union and the european union through a strategic programme. i think this could really make a difference.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. recently, we have all witnessed the failure of many european societies to integrate immigrants. we've experienced the explosive consequences of the fragmentation of the social fabric. we must therefore take measures at national, regional and european level to bridge the gap between migrants and host societies. the employment committee decided to ask the member states to establish a secure legal regime and a set of rights to assist this development: - sign and ratify the 1990 united nations convention on the rights of all migrants, regardless of their legal status; - prevent social degradation and adopt a set of clear legal rules for all migrant workers; - take measures to promote the education and information of migrants on their social and labour rights; - grant individual residence and work permits and strengthen the information and participation of host societies in the integration process. i am glad that the report by mr lambrinidis adopts many of the ideas of the committee on employment.
mr president, commissioner, in the course of this part-session we have particularly discussed immigration. we have referred to many dimensions and aspects, mainly those relating to the management of migration flows at our borders and within the member states. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. it is the dimension, it is the relationship between migration and development, the relationship between the european union and the third world countries which are mainly countries of origin of migrants and political refugees. our external action at community and national level offers us many opportunities to create conditions for sustainable development in countries and societies affected by extreme poverty, to create jobs, democratic institutions and structures, and to protect human and social rights. these conditions will give the local population hope and a prospect of a better life in their own country. the regional funds, european cooperation, stabilisation agreements, our development action in the framework of the united nations, the good neighbour policy, all of these are excellent tools, but they should be used better, with better coordination and a serious and substantial evaluation of our policies and objectives. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. better cooperation with local actors at all levels should also be achieved. the commission has also been asked to provide the necessary information to the member states on the implementation of the directive, and to provide the commission with the necessary information on the implementation of the directive. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. because women are the most serious victims of all forms of discrimination in developing countries, but also the first victims of illegal immigration when they come into our societies.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mrs carlotti on her report, because it comes at a particularly opportune time in view of the un general assembly in september, which will be discussing the relationship between migration and development. i think it is time to move from words and wishes to deeds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that the september meeting at the un is a good opportunity to link development objectives explicitly with migration and, above all, to make tackling this global problem a measurable objective within a specific timetable. the european union should accelerate the integration of migration into all external actions and policies and, above all, we should consider ways of integrating it into the new development cooperation strategy, the new european neighbourhood strategy. i believe that the euro-african summit will provide an opportunity to discuss all these problems. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
madam president, the achievement of the millennium development goals, the fairer sharing of the benefits of globalisation and the more effective integration of developing countries into the global economic system are major challenges for the world community. no one can doubt the positive contribution of fair trade programme initiatives to the sustainable economic and social development of developing countries. it is well known that the union is one of the most open markets in the world, in particular as a result of the 'everything but arms' initiative in favour of the least developed countries and the preferential treatment of other developing countries. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. a more balanced access and redistribution of resources between competing exporters and small producers is needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of dumping. the union's concessions and development policy must be directed primarily at vulnerable countries, and especially those most in need. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the development of fair trade regimes and the promotion of products that meet high social and environmental standards is of further particular importance due to the absence of such issues from the current world trade organisation negotiations. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr schmidt, on his valuable contribution to the problem of international fair trade law.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
the time for voting is over.
in writing. the so-called stability instrument is part of a wider package of financial instruments (development and economic cooperation, pre-accession assistance, neighbourhood and partnership) intended to be an integrated instrument for the exercise of the eu's imperialist policy in the accession countries, in the countries of its immediate and wider neighbourhood, and throughout the world. by providing 'financial assistance' to third countries, the eu is given the right to intervene in them, under the pretext of dealing with destabilising situations, 'crises' and 'emerging crises', situations which constitute 'risks to the rule of law, law and order, the protection of 'human rights', but also to the promotion of the principles of international law, including support for 'special national and international criminal courts'! this funding will be used in parallel as a means of blackmailing third countries into complying with the eu's imperialist ambitions, but also openly intervening in the internal affairs of independent countries, undermining governments and financing eu elites, as the possibility is established that the funding can be used to "support the development and organisation of civil society... including the promotion of independent, pluralistic and professional media". the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. the interim report on the cia's activities in abductions, transfers, interrogations and torture in european countries confirms the revelations of organizations and the media. the resulting confusion forced conservative, socialist forces to set up a commission of inquiry, to acknowledge known facts, to appear as 'innocent pigeons' in the eyes of the people, creating illusions about the role of the eu. the kke meps abstained, refusing to participate in the theatre of the absurd being played out in the european parliament, because: the eu-us agreement on the cia's unacceptable activities has been signed in athens and now the forces behind it are "protesting" its effects. the governments of the member countries, centre-right or centre-left, knew about and participated in the cia orgy, and the mps of the parties that support them, and that many knew, appear to denounce them. they're making fun of people. conservatives and social democrats have joined the us "anti-terror" campaign, accepted the "preventive war", the destruction of popular freedoms, democratic rights and now they are posing as pontius pilate. the european parliament's report cannot be a washing-up of the political responsibility of the parties which support imperialism. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe. it will grow stronger as the popular anti-imperialist movement grows and the balance of power changes.
in writing. the monitoring of the movement of millions of people's accounts by the us, with the agreement of the eu and member governments, reveals the depth and objectives of the so-called anti-terrorist campaign. it is part of the global and integrated portfolio of the imperialists to control, blackmail and terrorize those who resist them. it exposes the role of the banking system, private and state-owned enterprises in capitalist countries and the ecb, which even violate their own rules for the general interests of the system. the resolutions and calls for "protecting citizens' privacy" and "balancing the fight against terrorism with human rights" by the conservative and social democratic parties that dominate the eu and governments are a monument to hypocrisy. they're the same people who signed these agreements. they are so provocative that at the same time, at the same meeting, they adopted a report and a proposal for a regulation which documents the banking transactions of all eu citizens. the kke meps abstained, refusing to participate in the campaign to create illusions and sanctify the eu and the forces that support it. the kke will contribute to further revealing the role of the eu, which, while trying to appear more sensitive and democratic, will take more harsh anti-people and anti-democratic measures, feeling the popular resistance growing.
in writing. the eu is addressing the issue of migration exclusively within the framework of the lisbon strategy, to increase the competitiveness of its economy, i.e. from the perspective of increasing the profitability of european capital. the commission's declarations on the social integration of immigrants are therefore nothing more than a general wish list, without any practical contribution to solving their acute problems. they constitute a provocative hypocrisy, as migrants throughout the eu are subjected to the harshest exploitation of capital, with poorly paid, uninsured work, denied access to basic social and political rights, and held hostage by the reactionary institutional framework of the member states and the eu that holds millions of illegal and captive migrants. the kke supports the just demands of immigrants for their legalization, the abolition of black and uninsured work, higher wages and salaries, equal pay for work of equal value, upgraded, public, free education and health services, with full civil rights for all. the way to solve their problems is through their joining the working class movement, resisting and developing its struggles against the anti-people policies of the eu and the governments that are responsible for the poverty and misery of local and migrant workers in the eu and around the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, i would like to add, as a major suggestion, to what has been rightly said by the chairman of the committee on international trade, mr barón crespo, that the outcome of the geneva meeting should not weaken our commitment to multilateralism, to organized international economic relations and to a balanced and fair global trade governance. i do not understand, however, why the union is still on the defensive in the agricultural sector. it is known that he has shown a constructive negotiating attitude. the negotiating weight in terms of concessions is borne by other leading actors, both developed and dynamically developing. we must destroy the schemes that some of our trading partners are maintaining. firstly, rural liberalisation is not a panacea for growth. on the contrary, it is expected to benefit only a few competing exporters such as australia, new zealand, brazil and argentina. all recent economic studies agree that the greatest benefits of the current round are expected from the opening up of industrial product and service markets to facilitate trade. secondly, the liberalization of industrial products and services is not only an aggressive interest of the developed countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly, the special treatment of developing countries is entirely legitimate. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. further negotiation is therefore necessary, while fully preserving the principle of a single commitment. i believe that there is still room for international agreement. the doha round must not be wrecked. it is accompanied by top-notch ambition and expectation. in conclusion, i would like to thank in particular commissioner mandelson for his in-depth report on the geneva meeting and to congratulate him sincerely on his negotiating stance.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i too would like to thank the chairman of the committee on international trade, mr barón crespo, and the commissioner, mr mandelson, for the information they have given us. i believe that the failure of the negotiations in geneva last week has created a climate of catastrophism - a climate that has been cultivated. but i believe that this climate should in no way put pressure on the commission and commissioner mandelson to continue the concessions, especially in the agricultural sector. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. we have lost the ability to communicate and i think that is where we need to pay particular attention. our message must be clear and unambiguous. we want a balanced and reasonable compromise covering all the sectors of the doha round. but this compromise cannot be made at the expense of the european union's rural sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, commissioner, i would like you to explain to us what you have been saying a lot lately: what does it mean that the european commission will show conditional flexibility? i am afraid that this is being exploited by our trading partners to put more pressure on the european commission.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate you on the victory of the spanish national basketball team in the world cup. of course, you mustn't think that you have won us, the greeks: we gave you the game because we have ties to your royal family! and that's why we gave you the fight! you spoke earlier about illegal immigration in the canary islands. we have this phenomenon every day in the aegean. the border has not been defined because of relations with turkey. so every day we have multiple such illegal visits to our country. we are a country of 10 million people of which 2.5 million are illegal immigrants: one in four of the country's inhabitants is a foreigner. that's a fantastic number! we are a deficit country - the only country in europe that is in deficit. we have the highest unemployment, we have 2.5 million people below the poverty line. free us from this slavery! and by police action, we do not mean to give as much financial support as possible to the countries from which migrants are leaving so that they can stay in their countries.
mr president, in recent years we have seen a steady increase in the rate of forest destruction by fire, especially in southern europe. in greece we had major fires: in chalkidiki, perhaps the most important and beautiful tourist area in greece, about 60,000 acres were burned. this is a major blow to the environment, tourism and agriculture. it is necessary: first, that there be compensation for the victims. europe is the state, it is the organization of solidarity and it must show it; - secondly, there must be immediate protection against the risk of washing away the land; - thirdly, there must be prevention for the future: and here, we have to look at the issue in depth, how do we plant species that don't burn as easily as pine; - fourth, we have to look at how do we stop ecological degradation, because the greenhouse effect is the cause of increasing fires. it is our duty to protect both the environment and man.
mr president, according to a report in the greek press, the six largest greek banks, which cover more than 80% of the greek banking market, posted net profits of eur 1.6 billion in the first half of 2006. this represents an increase of 64% over the same six months of the previous year. the unprecedented profitability of the sector is, inter alia, a consequence of the high interest rates in the retail financial services sector. as the european commission has rightly identified this sector as a target area of its policy for integration, i would like to stress - and i address this remark to the european central bank - the need for concrete and effective measures to bring retail interest rates closer together at the euro area level.
mr president, 8 september is world literacy day, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union's development aid is part of the global effort to eradicate illiteracy. but there is also internal illiteracy. in coordinating their efforts, the member states and the european institutions shall assist the member states in the field of education. but they should not underestimate the value of preserving the linguistic and cultural identity of the children of european migrant workers. as for the children of the employees of the european institutions, it is necessary to have european schools which are constantly being improved, and for other internal migrants, coordinated care and institutional obligations are needed to preserve their linguistic and cultural identity. the new technologies, the distance learning framework, are helping and the european language proficiency index should not be limited to the five but should include all the official european languages.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, it should first be pointed out that the commission's proposal on the taxation of passenger cars is not a matter for the commission alone, since its proposals are mainly concerned with the establishment of a new system of taxation on the purchase and maintenance of cars. the proposal to be drawn up by the european parliament and included in the rapporteur's report should therefore aim both at reaching a consensus on the completion of the internal market and at establishing fiscal convergence in the field of passenger cars. as a matter of principle, it cannot be disputed, at least by the socialist group, that taxation should gradually be combined with environmental protection and improvement, in accordance with the kyoto protocol. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the principle of equal treatment for men and women is applied in all member states. first, the loss of tax revenue from the abolition of the registration fees could, if the member state so wished, be offset by a parallel increase in revenue from the annual circulation fees in a mild and gradual adjustment over a ten-year period. the commission proposes five years for phasing out, the european parliament proposes ten. secondly, the proposal to introduce a system of reimbursement of registration and circulation charges should a vehicle be exported or permanently transferred to another member state should be accepted. thirdly, a future multi-faceted taxation system for passenger cars must be avoided in order to achieve the objective of harmonisation set out in the general philosophy of this directive. this means that the adjustment, from 2008, of the co2-based toll applications should be considered by the commission and the car industry should be given the opportunity to adapt. consumers cannot be burdened by the high traffic charge due to the high pollution. the cost of adaptation should be borne by the car manufacturers and their adaptation, while consumer organisations should take action on the transparency of the implementation of the directive.
mr president, we must tell the truth: the talks on the car are held under the auspices of the seven oil brothers and the big car companies that control the governments of the big countries in europe and america that impose this regime. you see, car engines have been the same for a hundred years, while the technology for mobile phone engines is changing every month. so why do we have this hostage in this fuel with these derivatives? this is a big deal. the great thessaloniki scientist and inventor, who found a cheap way to split hydrogen, was violently overthrown, as were many other inventors who found another way, another fuel to escape from the slavery of oil. the commission has already made a number of proposals on the relationship between pollution and taxation. it's a good way, if you will. but isn't car insurance the right way to go? because, in an accident, an unsafe car adds to our injuries, which, by getting into hospitals, of course, affect the financial income of others. so the safe car should have less taxation. but that's another point of view. but now i will refer to the greek reality: we in greece have the highest classification fees of any country. both the pasok government and the new democracy government kept the fees high. for example, we have half the income of luxembourgers, so they get 1000 euros, we get 500 euros. they pay the car 20,000 euros, we pay it 40,000 euros. we pay for the most expensive cars in europe! finally, there is justice. there should be a uniform measure. we cannot have the poorest country in europe, with its deficit, paying for the most expensive cars because some people can't find another relationship.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, commissioner, i should first like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur for his work and his efforts to achieve this result of agreement between the institutions. this is a satisfactory result for all of us, because it is an expression of the european union's will to give visibility to the agency for safety at sea and the fight against pollution, to give it the appropriate means and adequate funding. the commission's powers are already considerable and have been mentioned by the commissioner and the rapporteur; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. i believe that in this context, in addition to this assistance, the agency can also play a coordinating role, something that past experience has shown us is needed. the eur 154 million is important not only because it is sufficient but also because it provides a guarantee over seven years. as regards operational assistance, the agency has already chosen the way in which it will act to prevent and combat pollution. it is very important to emphasize that in addition to these areas relating to the baltic, the western approaches to the english channel, the atlantic and mediterranean coasts, which are the priority areas, the agency may, if necessary, take action in other areas. it is also important that the agency has the capacity to deal with all substances. i would like to ask the commissioner whether we can plan an extension of the powers, or give a wider interpretation, so that the agency can act in cases where pollution is not caused by ships, such as the pollution from the great oil spill in lebanon which is now plaguing the mediterranean and is approaching the member states.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, at the very moment when we are discussing the framework of the responsibilities and the financing of the european maritime safety agency for the prevention and response to incidents of marine pollution, there is a huge ecological disaster in the south-eastern mediterranean caused by the criminal bombing of the israeli installations at zige in lebanon. data from the international maritime organization and other relevant bodies indicate that tens of thousands of tons of oil have spilled into the sea and have spread along the mediterranean coastline for over 170 kilometers. the murderous attacks by israel have caused the deaths of thousands of lebanese and palestinians and have had incalculable effects on the wider environment of the region. this is a crime against humanity. the cost of the operation to clean up the area, according to the most conservative estimates of the international maritime organisation experts, is more than eur 50 million, i.e. one third of the seven-year funding budget of the european maritime safety agency to combat marine pollution. i do not mention this as a sign that the clean-up operation will be covered by the european agency reserve, but to give us a better idea of the real cost of such a pollution. the much-vaunted 'polluter pays' principle of the european union is proving to be false and hypocritical, since the european union again makes no reference to the culprits, israel, who have caused this enormous ecological disaster. the european maritime safety agency cannot and should not replace the international maritime organisation and its member states which have the primary responsibility for the protection of the safety of human life at sea and the environment. the european agency needs to focus its action on improving safety of navigation and combating pollution, with particular attention to prevention. the agency should contribute with additional measures and not replace the infrastructures and activities of states but complement their actions in response to disasters. it is necessary to include all forms of marine pollution, in particular pollution by hydrocarbons and dangerous liquids, in the activities covered by the financial contribution. the absorption of eur 136 million of the total eur 154 million allocated to the agency for the chartering of patrol vessels, together with the high cost of satellite images - 1000 images cost eur 1 million - make the risk of turning this agency into a purely bureaucratic mechanism very high. the commission has therefore taken the necessary steps to ensure that the agency is able to meet its new responsibilities.
mr president, commissioner, the ecological disasters caused by maritime accidents unfortunately continue to pose a great danger to europe's maritime and coastal regions, and the capacity of the member states to deal with these disasters is often inadequate. it is therefore important to give emsa, which provides important assistance to the member states, the financial security it needs to cope. it is very important that the tasks are expanded in order to equip emsa with all the effective new means to deal with all forms of accidental and deliberate pollution. the provision of operational assistance to member states should be strengthened by the provision of specially equipped vessels to deal with pollution, as well as the creation of a central satellite imagery relay service for surveillance and early detection. however, the agency also needs to deal with other issues, such as the disposal of recovered oil and aerial surveillance, activities for which additional funding will be required. finally, let us not forget that the agency is complementary to the member states. the commission will be able to take account of the need to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
i believe that the purpose of this debate today is not to express our regret for the phenomenon or to emphasize our solidarity with those affected. i don't think it's of much use to them. what is needed is to discuss the matter politically and see what we can do as the european union. i think that the debate today is finally asking the question of what model of european union we want. we want a european union which is concerned only with monetary policy, with competitiveness, with the internal market - issues which it rightly deals with - or we want a european union which is also present in the great problems of everyday life, present in human suffering. the fires we have experienced this summer in my own country, greece, are one such case. and of course the member states have the initiative in such natural disaster matters. but this is no excuse for the european union not to show its solidarity in a tangible way, it is no excuse for the european union to be absent. the commissioner said that the initiatives taken by the european commission this summer were very positive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but i think the european union needs to have more tools at its disposal. the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and it has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. we have the barnier report: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we must finally move from theory to practice. i would hope that the council's welcome to this report is not just an expression of diplomatic rudeness but a desire for the european union to be more present in such matters.
mr president, this year the fires in the mediterranean have become the usual sad phenomenon of the summer. in some countries, however, the ineffective response of the state apparatus to them was unprecedented. we have to learn from our mistakes. unfortunately, in my country, greece, for the first time in many years, there was a preparation that was clearly inappropriate. two regions of the country, chalkidiki and mani, have suffered untold ecological and economic devastation. this proved to be largely due to poor planning and coordination that resulted in about 50% of firefighting planes being grounded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the forestry sector is not left to the detriment of the environment, and that the forestry sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. in view of the above, what is particularly surprising is that the greek government did not ask - i emphasize, did not ask - for assistance from the european union monitoring and information centre, unlike the spanish government which on 9 august asked for and received civil protection assistance, including firefighting aircraft. as many speakers have rightly pointed out, europe urgently needs a common civil protection force, which parliament has repeatedly called for. but what is the point of striving to create european civil protection mechanisms when some governments so flagrantly ignore them? the newly created european solidarity fund must also be ready to provide assistance. i would ask the commission to use the political considerations at its disposal to activate the necessary assistance for the inhabitants of the affected areas, and the council to bring the rules for activating the solidarity fund into line with parliament's proposals of 3 april 2006 as a matter of urgency. in 2006, the european commission presented its proposal to change the existing community civil protection mechanism. i have had the honour, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, to draw up the opinion in which we propose - and i stress this - that prevention be incorporated into funding. today that does not exist, it is not possible. finally, the commission must exert its influence on the member states so that at least the legislation on land use changes is tightened up and reforestation after fires is enforced.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mediterranean is not left to the mercy of the fires. in my country, greece, over 150,000 acres of forest have been burned. the fires have triggered a chain reaction with huge consequences for the ecosystem and the economy, tourism, agriculture, livestock and beekeeping. the risk of flooding makes it imperative to protect the forestry character of the areas and to prevent them by any means of building. in welcoming the initiative for a european parliament resolution on the fight against forest fires, i would like to stress that such an issue, which systematically affects almost all the countries of the european south every summer, requires serious preparation and a responsible approach by all the actors involved. the firefighting response is clearly necessary and i would therefore like to stress the need for the european union to reinforce the affected areas. but it's not enough. the main issue remains prevention and not just putting out the fire and its consequences. timely action, good preparation, adequate equipment, experienced and ready-to-act human resources and prompt and proper response by responsible governments are the necessary requirements for a burning issue for european citizens.
mr president, i am pleased to have with us today commissioner dimas, who is particularly sensitive to natural disasters. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we note that each year the fires are getting worse, despite the fact that we have more and more planes to fight them. and that's because we've changed, we're changing, we're making the planet's climate worse, and so it's intensifying the greenhouse effect. in my country, greece, chalcidice and mani, there was a real catastrophe. in halkidiki, one of the most beautiful places - perhaps the most beautiful - and one of the most important tourist destinations in greece, 60,000 acres burned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the recent floods. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must consider reforestation with fire-retardant trees which do not burn as easily as pine trees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we do not stand by our fellow citizens who are suffering, what kind of europe of solidarity are we talking about? if we are not generous to those who are destroyed, then don't be surprised if the people soon won't follow us. if we do not stand by the world that has been destroyed, then we will be without the world's trust and such a europe certainly has no future. we need to look deeper than the fires.
member of the commission. mr president, i certainly share the desire of the chairman of the committee on international trade that this very regrettable development in the negotiations should be a temporary halt, rather than an indefinite suspension. i welcome the fact that he and other members of this house are meeting other parliamentarians from wto member countries to review this matter. the more we can gain a broad understanding of what is at stake and what the problems are, and the more we can spread that knowledge amongst the players in the various wto countries – rather than keeping this knowledge to a very tightly-knit circle of negotiators – then the better off we will be. i will certainly pursue that objective when i visit washington dc later this month to meet with leading figures on the hill. the last time i discussed the doha development agenda with some of the members of this house was in geneva in late june. first of all i would like to say how much i appreciated your presence there, your networking activities and the way in which you played an interesting and useful role among the negotiating parties. we will need your backing in the future in our efforts to convince our wto partners to resume these negotiations, and i very strongly commend the approach taken by the members of this house. at the end of the week i will travel to rio de janeiro at the invitation of the government of brazil and the g20 group of developing countries. this will be the first chance to review at ministerial level what happened in geneva in july, to discuss our respective positions and to assess the possibility of how and when we can move forward. in the weeks following the suspension, all sides have expressed a commitment to seeing the round succeed. nobody is saying, on the face of it at any rate, that they are no longer committed to it, and doha certainly needs that level of commitment. in all our actions and statements we need to top up confidence in the round and the process and to reassert the values of multilateralism and the economic benefits of a wide and ambitious deal. however, the rhetoric has to be matched with political leadership. what we are faced with is a lack of what one might call ‘realistic ambition’. all sides are exporting their domestic constraints into these negotiations. perhaps that is inevitable, but it is not or should not be allowed to become an excuse for failure. yet even in the most difficult and seemingly intractable areas of negotiation, the positions on agriculture are not that divergent. they are not so far apart that they are irreconcilable. they dictate that the eu lift its average tariff cut close to that requested by the g-20 developing countries. the eu signalled in geneva that it was willing to negotiate on that as part of a balanced package – if others too are prepared to move forwards and show the same sort of flexibility we ourselves are demonstrating. if we are to move in the direction i have indicated we could, then in the right circumstances, this would represent a substantial shift from our original offer of a 39% average farm tariff cut, which is already much higher than the cuts accepted in the uruguay round. these would be the steepest farm tariff cuts ever accepted as part of a multilateral trade negotiation. nobody could describe this as ‘doha-light’. to these can be added the subsidy cuts flowing from eu reform, which would see eu producers withdraw dramatically from key global export markets such as milk and poultry, and the contraction of the eu grain market as demand for animal feed falls. if one puts all that together it amounts to a major new market access package for competitive agricultural exporters such as the united states, australia and other members of the cairns group. it would potentially downsize european agriculture by up to usd 20 billion per year. to dismiss this as insignificant, as some have done, is either a crude negotiating posture or a failure to do the necessary maths. in return for those cuts, the eu is looking to the united states to match it in cutting trade-distorting farm subsidies, which the developing world now rightly regards as the condition and catalyst for any final doha agreement. the united states has offered significant cuts in the so-called ‘amber box’ trade-distorting subsidies, from usd 19.1 billion down to usd 7.6 billion. this sounds good, and is to be welcomed. however, the united states has also proposed an increase in what it is allowed to spend in other categories of trade-distorting subsidy, while rejecting the idea of directly reforming those subsidy programmes so as to ensure that they no longer distort trade. if one adds together the three types of proposed trade-distorting support that the united states wants to keep, one actually arrives at a potential new ceiling of usd 22.7 billion, which is more than the united states currently spends. in other words, by the end of the doha implementation period, us trade-distorting payments to farmers could actually go up as a result of what the us tabled in its offer last october. it is understandable that the us’s trading partners have found that unacceptable, especially given the sweeping cuts that the us is demanding from others, in terms both of subsidies and tariffs. quite rightly, developing countries are insisting on an effective reduction in us subsidies, and the eu supports that. unless there is a shift in the us position, advanced developing countries such as brazil and india will not be prepared to offer greater access to their markets for industrial goods and services, and that is the crux of the eventual deal we are seeking. that deal will be hard to reach. i do not underestimate the difficulties that will arise in the negotiations we are yet to have with the advanced developing countries on industrial tariffs. however, it is the stand-off on agriculture, which represents only a fraction of trade for developing and developed countries alike, that is preventing the doha negotiations from addressing trade in manufacturing and services, which is where the vast bulk of the potential economic gains from this round lie. we will only achieve closure on doha if all the parties involved make the effort to sell an outcome on its merits across all areas of the negotiations. these include not only agriculture and farm tariffs, but also manufacturing, services and rules. all sides should realise that a realistically ambitious and achievable outcome, far from being a ‘doha-light’, would actually yield deep-seated structural changes in farm policies and create new trade flows in goods and services on a scale unmatched in any previous trade rounds. in other words, there is an awful lot already on the table, as mr lamy has repeatedly pointed out. what is being lost in a continued stalemate – let us be clear about this – is being lost first and foremost by developing countries. it is they who are losing new trade opportunities. even more importantly, they risk losing out as a result of a weakening of the multilateral trading system. we on the eu side will try to do as much as we possibly can, in any scenario, for the weaker and more vulnerable developing countries, without seeking to divide the wto membership. in particular, we will keep our promises on aid for trade, and we will maintain our efforts. some will ask how it is that suspension of the dda will affect our broader trade policy stance. the answer is that our commitment to doha will remain paramount. nothing can replace the wto. firstly, it is based on equality and the rule of law, rather than on raw power. secondly, some benefits can only be achieved in a multilateral context, such as new disciplines on farm or fishery subsidies, a new agreement on trade facilitation, new disciplines for anti-dumping tools and better and clearer rules on regional trade agreements. these are examples of areas where any number of bilateral agreements could not even begin to achieve the sort of improvement and strengthening of trade rules and the trade system that we are seeking. thirdly, these are the only form of negotiations in which smaller developing countries can punch their collective political weight. finally, the dispute settlement system itself is one of the cornerstones of the wto system and a feature unique in international law. there is no doubt that any erosion of confidence in the multilateral trading system as a whole would in the long term also critically affect that dispute settlement system. bilateral and regional deals are therefore not an alternative to multilateral negotiations, but rather an add-on and a complement that helps to address in greater depth a reduction in tariff and non-tariff barriers, as well as establishing disciplines in areas in which wto members have decided – at least for the time being – not to negotiate collectively within the multilateral system, be it in relation to competition rules, government procurement or the labour dimension. we are looking at several negotiations in this context. some are already in progress, while others will be launched when the conditions are ripe. mercosur, the gcc and central america are in the first group and we are also looking at ukraine, india, korea and the asean countries as potential partners for new initiatives. let me conclude by saying that i and the commission remain firmly committed to a successful outcome of the multilateral round and that i want to work closely with you in this house to achieve that goal. that remains my priority. the commission will also shortly present soon two communications – one in october on external aspects of our competitiveness in europe, and one on trade relations with china. these will tackle other key issues of our future trade policy. i am keen to discuss both of these with you in the coming weeks, and look forward to doing so. as a team i believe we should continue to work together in the future as well as we have done in the past – for europe’s sake, but also for the benefit of the global economy and in particular for the most needy developing countries. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, there is no doubt that the cost of the failure of the doha round is high. it will be increased in the event of a final shipwreck. among other things, costs are identified: firstly, the runaway benefits for the world economy, growth and employment; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the aid scheme. secondly, the undermining of progress in certain areas of the negotiations, areas of particular importance to the developing countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that the stakes in a complete failure are clearly greater than in reaching an overall agreement, however less ambitious. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has taken a constructive and responsible attitude. it has made substantial offers, abandoning many of its targets since the beginning of the round. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the excessive use of the dollar, and that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the excessive use of the dollar. we, as the european people's party - european democrats, remain committed to multilateralism. commitment to the multilateral trading system makes a decisive contribution to the security, transparency and stability of international trade. it also contributes to diffusing the growing economic interdependence over international political cooperation. the breakdown of multilateralism carries with it the risk of sectorial trade conflicts and the revival of regional trade strongholds. the successful conclusion of the multilateral trade negotiations should therefore remain - and this has been rightly emphasised by both the commissioner and the chairman of our committee - the top choice, the top priority on the union's agenda. at the same time, bilateral and interregional relations with other important partners must be strengthened in a complementary manner. the stability of the world trade system requires, in my view, a new impetus to the relationship of trade interdependence and shared responsibility between the european union and the united states of america. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, i want to say right from the start that i fully agree with the approach of the commissioner, mr mandelson, and the sensitivities he has expressed. there is no doubt that our main objective must remain the successful conclusion of the doha round negotiations. it will be in the interest of the european union and the member states. but this success cannot be achieved at any cost. nor can it be achieved by unilateral concessions on the part of the european union. i believe that the time has come to answer a crucial question of strategic importance: can the institutional structure of the world trade organisation, as we have known it since its inception in 1995, serve the european union's strategic objective of a democratic multilateral trading system? i am afraid that, on the basis of our experience to date, and in view of the failure of the doha round negotiations, this cannot be served. the world trade organization is currently producing more crises than it can solve. i therefore consider it strategically important that the european union should take the initiative in a very ambitious democratic reform of the world trade organisation. i also consider it strategically important that the european commission should present a comprehensive trade policy strategy for the development of bilateral and regional trade relations. that's exactly what the united states does, mr. mandelson, and you know it: the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the doha round and the development of bilateral and regional trade relations. we must, and must, do the same. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the european union must not be left behind in this great strategic stake.
member of the commission. mr president, this has been a very useful debate because it has focused our attention, it has provided insight and it has given me guidance, which are the essential roles of parliament vis-à-vis the commission. i am a new commissioner and do not know what has happened in the past or what precedent has been set, but i feel instinctively that the information-sharing, consultation and dialogue i have with this parliament and with the committee on international trade is very strong. it is certainly more wide-ranging and frequent and of greater depth than i was used to as a minister in my national parliament. i welcome the depth and strength of those contacts and am slightly surprised by the criticism that has been expressed. i do not know whether it is one representative of parliament or of the committee on international trade as a whole, and i hope it is not. the commission consults parliament on all main trade policy orientations on the basis of the westerterp procedure which, as we know, provides for the possibility of a debate in parliament before the opening of negotiations on any trade agreement, as well as for information from the council before the conclusion of any such agreement. we do so also on the basis of the stuttgart declaration, which states that parliament should be consulted on the conclusion of all agreements – even ones covered by the then article 113 – that have an important bearing on the community. our commitment to this relationship is shown by the fact that we send the committee on international trade copies of all the policy documents that are under discussion in the council’s article 133 committee. there is no legal obligation on us to do this. we do it because it is right and because it helps underpin our relations. no doubt we could do even better in the future, but to characterise what we do at the moment as ‘poor’ or ‘insufficient’ seems inaccurate. a number of the points raised relate to legitimate concerns over the impact of these negotiations – both their direction and suspension – on developing countries. i should make it clear that developing countries do not conform to a ‘standard size’ state of development or set of interests when it comes to the negotiations. there are different developing countries with very different interests and very different needs. our job is primarily to ensure two things: firstly, that all developing countries benefit and gain from these negotiations and, secondly, that the weaker, more vulnerable and less-developed among them receive the greatest direct assistance, not least in terms of capacity-building, aid for trade and the putting in place of a full duty-free and quota-free system that enables them to access rich world markets. in other words, we operate a system of proportionality: proportionality vis-à-vis what we expect developing countries to contribute and the effort we expect of them in bringing these negotiations to a conclusion, and proportionality also in terms of what we give and how we support and underpin their development. the countries that are in greatest need and have least to offer are quite rightly those which are, and will remain, our priority in these negotiations. it is important to stress this because, unlike some of those who have spoken, i passionately believe that a good doha deal can contribute to development and to fairer trade, through the way in which we operate special and differential treatment between developing countries, the way we allow carve-outs for commitments to developing countries to protect and enable the development of infant industry, the way we provide for longer implementation periods for developing countries so that they can prepare for change and, in particular, the way that we grant special access to the least-developed countries and attention to their capacity needs. we shall continue to adhere to that standard, as you would expect us to do, throughout the negotiations. what is important is to have not just access for developing countries to the markets of the developed world, but also much greater access for developing countries to the markets of other developing countries. what is important is south-south trade, especially given the extent of duty-free and quota-free access that we in europe already give to developing countries and particularly the acp countries, as a result of which 75% of agricultural exports from africa come to europe, as do 45% of those from latin america. in fact, we are the most open and fair-minded trading bloc in the world. let us remember that fact, whilst also reminding ourselves of what we can do better in the future. the greatest and earliest gains for developing countries will come from increased trade opportunities with other developing countries. it is therefore south-south trade that we must not lose sight of when delicately and sensitively addressing the issues of tariff reductions and the much-needed multilateralisation of ‘everything but arms’. others who have spoken have suggested that far from giving too little for and to developing countries, the european negotiating position has consisted of giving far too much, too early and showing far too much flexibility. well, we in europe conceived the doha round. we were primarily instrumental in launching it and we have nurtured it throughout. after cancún we were instrumental in putting it back on track, through the framework agreement, in 2004, and i do not apologise for putting an end date, in hong kong, on the elimination of our export subsidies. this was a commitment we had already made, assuming, of course, that we reach the end of these negotiations and that other countries act similarly in eliminating the components of their export subsidisation. i make no apology, and am not actually primarily responsible for the future of the common agricultural policy, although i would point out that i do not as yet see a consensus emerging in favour of its abolition. in the event of a doubtful outcome to the doha negotiations, we will have to look very carefully at what happens to the future of export subsidies, because that is linked to another point that has been raised in this debate – i.e. whether or not we will be more or less vulnerable to litigation at the wto in cases brought against us on agriculture should a deal not be reached in the multilateral negotiations. if these negotiations do not succeed, i agree that it is likely that there will be an upsurge in cases brought to the wto, especially concerning agriculture. we in europe can view this possibility with relative equanimity. we have reformed our common agricultural policy because it was right to do so for our own purposes and needs, as well as for the needs of others within the international trading system. to the extent that we have now implemented that reform, and will continue to do so, we are protected from litigation at the wto. however, not all wto members are in the same position and i certainly do not exclude the big agricultural exporters – for example brazil and argentina – trying the judicial road if they see that the political and negotiating one is blocked. however, others are more vulnerable to that than we are in europe. before i make one final comment about timing, let me just say this about the wto itself. everybody – including the present director-general of the wto – agrees to varying degrees that the wto would benefit from some institutional and procedural reform, as others have commented on during the course of this debate. the sutherland report provided some interesting ideas in this regard. however, we need to be clear in our minds on this. the present impasse in the negotiations is not due to an institutional problem but to a political one, and no institutional improvement could break the present deadlock. that is something which requires political will and an adjustment of attitude and policy on the part of certain wto members. that brings me to my last point, which relates to when these negotiations can restart. quite simply, we will have to wait until the mid-term elections in the united states are over in november before we can entertain the idea of a serious resumption in negotiations. i will be working to that end.
member of the commission. madam president, on behalf of the commission i would first of all like to express our thanks to the two rapporteurs, mrs gröner and mrs angelilli, for the excellent job they did. i have to tell you that i was very happy to fulfil the request of my fellow commissioner, mr frattini, to replace him, at least at the beginning of the debate, because this is a very important subject and one which is close to my heart. i also want to tell you that the commission is firmly committed to the daphne programme, which sets out to prevent and combat all forms of violence against women, children and young people. we know that parliament also values it very highly. daphne will be ten years old, but what the commission is proposing is already the third version of the programme. during that period its success has been widely acknowledged. it has served to finance a great many projects which have helped to achieve progress in the fight against violence. the attachment to daphne felt by parliament and many sections of civil society is reflected in their suggestion that the commission should stop presenting daphne measures and action to prevent drug abuse under the same programme heading. as you know, the commission has taken parliament’s wishes on board and on 24 may it put forward two separate programme proposals. although daphne ii runs to the end of 2008, it is essential that daphne iii be adopted by the end of the year so that the new forms of action provided for by the proposal for a decision, as well as the budget appropriations, which are much higher than in the past, can be used right from the beginning of next year. i am looking forward to today’s debate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, we must recognize that with today's independent report the committee on women's rights and gender equality, in proposing the specific programme to combat violence against children, young people, women and high-risk groups, is correcting in the right direction the proposed decision on the overall programme which, in addition to tackling violence and violent reactions between people, also promoted drug prevention and public information within the framework of the general programme 'indigenous rights and justice'. the rapporteur, mrs gröner, the chairman of the committee, mrs záborská, and all the members of the committee, almost unanimously, sensitively identified the objective of protecting the most vulnerable groups of our fellow men from violence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are protected. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. the committee's amendments in the majority of cases build on the conclusions of the evaluation of the two previous programmes, daphne i and ii, which were generally considered to be successful. as we consider the financing of daphne iii to be satisfactory under the agreement on the financial perspective, we should expect the results of the actions to be spectacular and to eliminate violence from civilized european society, not just by 50% as the rapporteur proposes, but as far as possible completely, with the systematic work and cooperation of the authorities, local bodies, organisations and civil society. the whole action is expected to be based on the tripartite approach of 'prevention by constantly updating information, tackling the root of the problem, treatment and care for victims and rehabilitation and dealing with offenders'. but let me note that the success of the programme also depends on avoiding the fragmentation of interests and avoiding involvement in the wider field of crime. the european people's party therefore does not support amendment no 69. positive results are also expected through transparency in the involvement of non-governmental organisations which must have a reputation for action and a guarantee of their positive contribution to the sterilisation of the wounds of violence. such bodies are the european federation for missing children, which includes 19 organisations, and the european network of child advocates, which is represented in the member states. we hope that the success of the new programme will ensure the viability of the programmes after their funding has expired and that we will be able to ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs gröner on both her report and her continuing efforts to strengthen this programme. as we all know, if this programme is not implemented to the extent proposed in mrs gröner's report, we will not be able to limit, either communicatively or in practice, the phenomenon of violence which is present at all social levels, a violence which is widening its social fabric and is constantly spreading to large social groups which are now confronted with it, and for this reason i think the european union should intensify its efforts. i would like to stress that the commission has been right not to merge the daphne iii programme with the drugs programme, a constant position of the socialist group and mrs gröner. however, i would also like to point out that, when reading the 2007 budget, we were surprised by the council's position which reduced the community funds for daphne iii, contrary to the commission's proposal. if we are not hypocritical towards the victims of violence against migrants and refugees, children and infants, we should stimulate and increase the budget for daphne iii because this policy of cuts is in complete contradiction with the commitments to further strengthen and upgrade the programme and to ensure the effectiveness of its actions. in order to be effective and to constitute an eu priority, a policy to combat violence against women, children and young people should be accompanied by adequate planning and organisation of actions and adequate resources for their implementation.
madam president, the very fact that we are talking in 2006 about violence against women shows that we are in a state of decline. two and a half thousand years ago, in the athenian republic, in the time of socrates, there was no crime, there was no violence against women. it was considered unacceptable. and after two and a half thousand years, we have this violence, this unstoppable violence against women. so measures must be taken. i don't know if the daphne program is enough or if it needs something more. suddenly, the penalties are getting tougher. there are no harsh punishments for a man who rapes a woman. we have more female prostitution today in 2006 than we had 50 years ago after the war. today, half of the women who come to our country, to greece - which is not a rich country - from the former eastern countries are married off. that's a crime. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat violence against women, including the introduction of a new system of social security for women. we must fight drugs effectively. my country is number one in heroin deaths. and it's the poorest country in the eurozone. we must therefore look at effective prevention and effective punishment for those responsible.
mr president, i wanted to explain that our opposition to amendment no 68 on street children was not about the category itself but about the categorisation of the victims, which the commissioner also stressed. i would also like to point out that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my intervention concerns the amendments to the gröner report.
in writing. the commission's proposal to abolish the registration fees for passenger cars and replace them with increased annual road tolls is at the expense of workers and the popular classes and serves only the interests and the increase of profits of the automotive industry, the single internal market and the increase of anti-people indirect taxes imposed by the eu and governments under the pretext of emissions and the kyoto protocol. the false reductions in initial prices will be offset by the diversification of the pricing policy of the car manufacturers and the fluctuations in vat. at the same time, member states will replace their revenue from the classification fees with increased annual circulation fees. the new tax-saving measure against workers also imposes the principle of a tax on emissions, since the annual taxation of passengers will be based on their emissions. the measure, while clearly ineffective in tackling air pollution, will directly lead to an increase in tax revenues and sales of new cars to replace old ones, further burdening the family balance. we are opposed to the report because the proposed measures, instead of protecting consumers, increase the profits of the car manufacturers, instead of protecting the environment, burden it with an increased number of vehicles, instead of protecting the people's income, they base their withdrawal on the altar of the stability pact.
mr president, we must admit that we have not done very well on the welfare state. the truth is that a few years ago, we put too much on without having the foresight to see that people's life expectancy is increasing. back then, 40 years ago, a heart attack was tantamount to death; now, a heart attack is treated with a simple routine surgery. we also did not think a few years ago, ten years ago when we signed the world trade agreement, that our own product is burdened by welfare costs while the product produced by indians and chinese, who make up half the world's workforce, is not burdened by welfare costs. the result: chinese products are flooding europe, our own businesses are closing down and so tomorrow we will not be able to offer this welfare state. the truth is this: we're either going bankrupt, or we're not as safe as citizens. this is the reality. we must therefore see how we can deal realistically with the situation. we're fooling the world! we won't be able to be consistent. now we're talking about getting capital from the employers. but employers are kneeling before the products of the chinese and indians. so we need to know what reality is. technology had to show us the way. forty years ago, when i was a kid, we would go to the fields to harvest and there were 50 of us for two acres. now it's a machine with a single operator. jobs are being lost to technology. so how will we today secure that standard of living? we have to find ways that are not visible through these thoughts that we're processing. we must realize that we were wrong when, ten years ago, with the world trade agreements, we did not take account of these parameters: their cheap products which today are drowning the market and do not give our products the chance to be on the shelves of shops. this is a big mistake and we're gonna pay for it. and to tell the european citizen the truth that we will not be able to make the chinese european but, unfortunately, we will make the european chinese!
mr president, i would like to welcome the commission's statement on greenhouse gas emission trading schemes. climate change has major economic and social impacts. consequently, pollution must be made costly. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a way that is consistent with the objectives of the directive. there are firms that submit declarations certified by specialized bodies and firms and others that do not have certification. the commission therefore has a great responsibility to safeguard and strengthen the credibility of the trading system and we call on it to take the necessary initiatives to shield the new system from such distortions. i propose, with a view to the evaluation of the second national plans for 2008-12, that the european commission take the necessary measures to prevent the excessive generosity of emissions granted by member states to certain undertakings. and i also ask the commission to ensure that the methodology is strictly applied so that the emission factors are not applied to the total combustion plant but to each combustion plant.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i should first of all like to point out that the commission has no direct competence in the area of bankruptcy legislation. nevertheless, this area is particularly important for small and mediumsized enterprises and the commission is therefore trying to play a mediating role here. we have made sure that best practice is made public and have encouraged member states to introduce best practice. the commission sees its work as focusing on preventing insolvencies and promoting restructuring, not on winding up companies. we are working on more business-friendly rules for non-fraudulent insolvencies and finally we are dealing with the question of support for a new start, that is to say, the question of second chance. the european charter for small enterprises points out that some insolvencies can occur even if the initiative is responsible and if entrepreneurial risks are taken. accordingly, a review of national insolvency laws in the light of best practice is required. various steps have been taken in this regard. in spring 2001 a seminar on business failure was held in noordwijk. the main issues were the improvement of bankruptcy laws and the prevention of insolvencies. the study bankruptcy and a fresh start, which collects data on the legal and social consequences of business insolvencies, was published in mid-2002. this study forms the basis of the commission's best project 'restructuring, bankruptcy and a new start' of 2003, which focused on two key issues: how far does national insolvency law prevent a company from continuing to exist and from starting over? how does the stain of failure affect the chances of success in the relaunch of failed businesses and the entrepreneurial spirit in general? the results of this project were presented in a report which was intended to support the trend in european policy towards changing the legal framework of bankruptcy laws. the main recommendations and benchmarks ranged from emphasising the usefulness of external advice in preventing insolvency, to the importance of current and reliable insolvency laws in facilitating conciliation and restructuring, to the importance of a clear distinction between fraudulent and non-fraudulent bankruptcy and the corresponding allocation of different legal consequences. the report has indeed contributed to a strengthening of the pan-european effort to reform insolvency law. in response to some comments on the green paper 'entrepreneurship in europe', the commission extended the entrepreneurship action plan in 2004 to include a focused action on business insolvency with three specific objectives. first, the commitment of the member states to implement the recommendations of the final report of the expert group on restructuring, bankruptcy and new start. secondly, better understanding of business failure, thirdly, promotion of preventive measures for companies in the danger zone. in relation to objectives 2 and 3, the commission is currently developing an information kit and self-assessment tests for entrepreneurs to identify early business risk factors when the prospects for remediation are still good, as part of the multiannual project 'stigma of failure and early warning tools'. on 28 march 2006, the commission organised a conference in brussels on 'insolvency and a new start'. this conference focused on methods of preventing insolvency, combating the stigma of a failed enterprise and promoting a new start after non-fraudulent business insolvencies. there are positive signs of implementation of these priorities at national level. the national reform programmes submitted by around one third of the member states under the lisbon strategy - which also includes greece - included plans for the reform of national insolvency law for 2005.
madam president, thank you very much for the full answer and for the details of the action taken by the commission and the council. i would like to ask whether the european union's international obligations are contributing to the insolvency and sudden failure of businessmen.
member of the commission. we have discussed this matter, in terms of procedure. for instance, almost a year ago when i was in turkey after the opening of the accession negotiations on 3 october 2005, we had an in-depth exchange of views on the matter with the relevant committee of the turkish grand national assembly. since then, we have raised this issue at various points, including in the context of the association council this spring. in our view, and according to the turkish authorities, this should be part of the so-called ninth reform package which is still pending as a whole and which should be adopted without any undue delay by the turkish grand national assembly and, in part, by the turkish government. this is certainly a critical precondition for accession to the european union and we have made it very clear that turkey cannot join the european union without respecting this very fundamental principle.
member of the commission. mr rübig has come up with a very interesting idea. we are using all the data and analysis provided by agencies such as the one he mentioned in vienna. we are also using data from different human rights organisations. i will look into this matter but, as i understand it, we are already using analysis provided by that agency. we use a lot of analysis and data provided by bodies such as the council of europe and the osce, as well as agencies and other think-tanks.
commissioner, it is well known that the halki school has been closed for several years. are you doing anything to get the halki school back on track? for there is a danger that the ecumenical patriarchal throne will not have persons in the future to elect the next patriarch. do you have something in mind to tell us?
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on the falsification/counterfeiting of medicines by mr thierry cornillet, on behalf of the alde group (o-0039/2006 - b6-0310/2006).
i have received six motions for resolutions (see minutes) pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 7/9/06 at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the report by john bowis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on improving the mental health of the population - towards a mental health strategy for the european union (2006/2058 (ini)) (a6-0249/2006).
on behalf of the pse group. the commissioner, the promotion of mental health is an issue that concerns not only the mentally ill and their families but above all society as a whole, as we all may at some point find ourselves faced with some form of mental disorder which can cause significant economic and social burdens. the debate today on the report by mr bowis is particularly important, and i should like to congratulate him on his excellent work. this is the launch of the public consultation on the establishment of a mental health strategy in the union. action is needed to prevent, diagnose and treat early mental disorders affecting part of the population in order to limit the individual economic and social consequences. at the same time, it is necessary that these actions aim at improving information and developing appropriate attitudes and skills in order to safeguard mental health and combat the stigma attached to the mentally ill. i would also like to stress the need for continuing training of primary care and health professionals on mental health issues to ensure that they are dealt with in the best possible way. i also believe that it is necessary to apply personalised methods of promoting mental health, taking into account the specific needs of target groups such as people with disabilities. and based on the fact that outcomes are better when people with mental disorders are treated in the community, while, conversely, long-term stay in mental institutions can worsen their condition, we should support their deinstitutionalization.
mr president, according to the world health organization, mental health is essential to the well-being of individuals, societies and countries and must be addressed globally on a new basis, with a new understanding, creating new hope. with this report we are guided by the data of the world health organization and are launching for the first time a systematic effort to promote mental health. families of sufferers who provide material and emotional support to their affected members suffer, as do sufferers, the negative consequences of the stigma and discrimination that accompany these diseases. the support of professionals is therefore necessary to meet their obvious needs, while information and systematic combating of stigma are essential components in the treatment of mental illnesses. i consider it equally necessary to investigate the mechanisms and causes of these diseases and to improve their treatment, including the development of new therapeutic methods. i would like to stress here that the most important difference between these diseases and most other serious diseases that can even cause death is that they disrupt brain functions, such as memory, reasoning and consciousness, i.e. those functions that are inextricably linked to the personality of the human being. this personality is eroded and may eventually be destroyed in several of these morbid conditions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. in conclusion, i would say that, keeping in mind that prevention, early detection and good practice in terms of treatment significantly reduce the individual, economic and social consequences, i believe that by endorsing the excellent report by my colleague mr bowis, we are embarking on a course which will give mental illness the highest priority it deserves, leading to a more effective response to this modern scourge.
mr president, commissioner, allow me to congratulate the rapporteur, mr john bowis, because with his systematic work and the result of this report, he has highlighted the importance of mental health and the policies we must put in place. it is clear that the public health strategy must include mental health. and this, both for reasons of personal well-being and for reasons of social cohesion and social peace and progress. "a healthy man is healthy in body" was a saying used by the ancient greeks to prove that mental and physical health are integral components of a healthy man. this saying has all its timeliness and significance in modern times. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. in this context, i would like to stress that the gender dimension must be given particular consideration both in research and in the prevention and treatment of psychopathological conditions. research shows that a number of particular biological conditions and especially social conditions affect women. the gender dimension must also be taken into account in the training and information of nursing staff. in general, information is needed for society and the families of those affected, because in many cases women with psychological problems are treated as particularly vulnerable people and not as people who suffer and need special attention and care. we must therefore protect both the people affected and their environment, because we will also make the environment more capable and more confident of the role it is called upon to play in dealing with the problems of its own people. in conclusion, let me refer to the victims of war. the serious psychological problems they are facing must be the subject of our development aid and humanitarian aid and, in general, of aid for the reconstruction of the regions, because the reconstruction of the regions requires above all the reconstruction of the souls of the people.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate commissioner rehn on his honesty and courage in his position on the council's position on the 2007 budget. the european union cannot be effective and credible without community resources in the balkans. the council's proposal to reduce community resources in the 2007 budget is also unacceptable in my view, and cannot be accepted. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. the european union has a very important role to play today. and it has a role in determining the final regime. we all believe in, and support, a peaceful, democratic, multinational and european kosovo. but we must also support serbia in the context of the european strategy as defined by the thessaloniki council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the logic of unilaterally imposing a solution on kosovo may prove counterproductive. the european union must not repeat the mistakes it made in the 1990s. it is a matter of common ground. in conclusion, i would like to mention the issue of serbia, which is of particular concern to me because various views have been expressed by colleagues here. there can be no peaceful solution to kosovo, no peaceful balkans with stability and security, without a democratic serbia within the european union. in this respect, i consider the council's decision to suspend the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement to be a major political mistake for the european union. the negotiations must begin immediately and, of course, we must see the conditions for cooperation with the international criminal court fulfilled in the process. the serbian people must not be punished for the traumatic past of the authoritarian milosevic regime. today we must give serbia a perspective, otherwise we will be supporting the most extreme nationalist circles. i shall end with the situation of minority rights in kosovo. all the latest reports by the un secretary-general, the un human rights committee and non-governmental organizations describe a dramatic situation for minorities, and in particular for the serb minority in kosovo. we are talking about respect for resolution 1244 of 1999. we are talking about the implementation of the standards. we must finally move in that direction.
madam president, the plight and misery of the peoples of the former yugoslavia is the result of foreign intervention, of the unjust and dirty war waged by nato with the participation of many countries of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the targets of this war are visible today. it was the disintegration of yugoslavia, its partition, and this you achieved by imposing foreign occupation in bosnia-herzegovina and kosovo and by creating protectorate states. the european union has also made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. the creation of a protectorate state, an independent state, kosovo, with a huge military force and a large american base, is therefore being promoted so that you can control the region and change the borders. we believe that the only solution is for all foreign troops to leave the balkans and for the peoples of the region to solve their own problems. and i would like to end by telling you to look back at history: as the balkan peoples drove out foreign invaders, so they will drive out new invaders.
the committee on international trade has adopted an opinion on the proposal. madam president, first of all i should like to congratulate mr ilves on the very important work he has done on this important resolution which reflects the current state of relations between the european union and albania and highlights all the important problems and challenges facing the albanian government and the albanian political forces. the fact is that the signing of the stabilisation and association agreement opens up a new path for albania towards europe, towards the european institutions, with the ultimate aim of joining the european family. we must always remember this, as the european strategy adopted in thessaloniki says, and i believe that the european union has every strategic interest in strengthening this european perspective of the balkan countries, despite the fatigue of enlargement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr ilves has pointed them out. i would like to make two or three points in particular: the question of fighting corruption. of course, we all agree on that. the current albanian government should not, however, use the fight against corruption as a pretext for settling political scores with the opposition forces. it is a serious issue that we have experienced in albania before. the second issue is the need to proceed immediately with the reform of the electoral system and the modernisation of the electoral rolls. it is very important because it will help to normalise political life and to consolidate a democratic political system. the third issue is respect for the freedom of the media and of course the prevention of interference by the government in their operation. i would like to point out here - and i am also addressing mr rehn - that in recent days there has been a marked increase in government interference in the media operations of the albanian democratic opposition, namely the socialist party: i am referring, mr rehn, to the top channel television network which is being blocked by the albanian authorities. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. finally, respect for minorities. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the greek minority plays an important role and is a treasure for the democratic integration of albania. and, of course, the functioning of the orthodox church and the social and spiritual role of archbishop anastasios must be facilitated.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. madam president, if there were an observer from asia, africa or south america here today, and he were listening to this debate, we would be asking him a lot of questions. the european union has also been involved in the fight against drug trafficking, and the european union has been involved in the fight against drug trafficking. at the same time, we hear all the rapporteurs saying, "yes, albania must join the european family". these look a little weird. but they are a reality that we must examine. i would like to start with what mr rehn said, that there is a consensus between the commission and the council. there has not always been a consensus, commissioner! in october 2002 the commission said 'no, no association negotiations! " the council unilaterally imposed the decision and that is how the situation developed to the point where we are today. i mention this for the sake of restoring truth and history. we greeks are neighbours of albanians, and as you know, a neighbour knows his neighbour better than someone who lives elsewhere. what's the story? the story is that albania imposed on itself the cruelest dictatorship. while the peoples of eastern europe considered stalin a dictator, albania considered him very democratic and followed mao tse tung. this has left a mark on the dna of the people and, in particular, on the leadership. it 's been 16 years . 16 years of democracy! and yet, the central temple in the city of premeti is not returning to christianity. they still keep it as a trading house. 16 years later! a country of europe! a country, madam secretary, only 500 kilometers from austria. a church that for many centuries was a temple of orthodoxy is not being returned and is still being held as a trading house. what answer can be given to this? isn't it a fact that something is wrong in this country? we are talking about a country which last year - not earlier - just last year, took two months to produce electoral results! i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the elections in albania were held on 2 july and the results came out on 2 september, which means that the structure of democracy is not working well, that something is wrong in the public administration in this country. there are greek contractors in albania who do not recognize as authority the legitimate government of mr berisha today, or mr fato yesterday, but the mafia. because if they don't pay their mafia taxes, they blow up the construction sites. there are greek companies that have invested many millions of euros and, precisely because they could not stand the mafia which imposes its own heavy taxation, they abandon the construction sites and the machinery and leave. one in three cars checked by the greek police at the border is carrying hashish. that's the ratio. so is it possible to have such a country which cannot build its state? i agree that we should all try to help this country find its way. but if we consider it to be mature, i'm afraid we're in trouble. it's not ripe yet. and we come here, the civilized people of europe, the representatives of the peoples of europe, and we decide not to include serbia in the union but to include albania. and we are not putting serbia because mrs ponte does not want it, just as mrs ponte did not want croatia, and if austria had not vetoed turkey last year, croatia would still be outside the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. isn't that the truth? we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report. isn't that the reality? the commissioner has just now admitted, elegantly but in substance, that this is why serbia is not joining the european union. so we have to face the facts: that this is a country with increased crime that the government cannot control. and while the government may have the intention of controlling it, it is unable to do so because it is beyond its capabilities. the trade in children is also out of control. in the year 2006, we have child trafficking, if that's even possible! there is a very large amount of drug trafficking and, of course, above all else - and this is a political issue which i believe will be controlled with guidance - we are witnessing an extreme chauvinism which is not confined to kosovo or skopje, where we saw the unrest a few years ago, but is also moving at the expense of greece. the president of the hellenic republic paid an official visit and was provoked by the mobs and there was a great deal of trouble and incidents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when a country lacks a free press, it lacks basic goods. so we have to be very careful before we get ourselves into trouble. this country needs education and hard care before it joins the european union.
mr president, the stabilisation and association agreement with albania is a creative coincidence between the desire of that country to be more european and the desire of the european union and its member states to integrate albania more fully into european structures. the agreement extends the european project for security, stability, democracy, the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights to the western balkans region. a plan for good governance, respect for minority rights and the consistent cultivation of good neighbourly relations. a plan for economic reform, development and modernisation of infrastructure, open to cross-border cooperation and regional, economic and political integration. the european parliament's motion for a resolution reflects reality, it records shortcomings and it draws out the prospects. the challenge of the new, more dynamic relations between the european union and albania is the gradual qualitative adjustment of albania to the european acquis of principles, values, rules and behaviour. it also consists in strengthening public institutions, enhancing technocratic efficiency and closing the trust gap between reform-minded actors and the citizens of albania. the challenge is to bridge the gap between formal acceptance and actual implementation of the european acquis. in the context of the adjustment process, administrative, police and judicial modernisation is at the forefront of the fight against organised crime and corruption; the maximum participation of civil society in the political process and the establishment of mechanisms for the sustainable and transparent functioning of the market economy. my own view is that we are moving in the direction set by mrs pack and mr posselt, but, adding a spirit of good neighbourliness, we are supporting the new framework for relations between the european union and albania with a view to accelerating the pace of adjustment. the benefits that are expected to result both for the albanian people and for the union itself are obvious. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. and a deviation, an excursus from the discussion of the albanian issue and a link to the previous section on kosovo. i would like to put a clear question to commissioner rehn, the guardian of community legality, as a member of the commission: there is the recognized principle of respect for fundamental rights. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the peoples of the world are respected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, i have no doubt in my mind that albania must have a european perspective. it is positive for this country and for the wider region of the balkans and south-east europe. if we isolate albania, we condemn it to remain a state in which it will flourish, and from which crime and corruption will be exported. i do not think that such a policy is in the interests of anyone. on the contrary, through a political approach and through the stabilisation and association agreement, we are giving albania incentives to move towards respect for human rights, economic reform and the strengthening of the rule of law and democratic institutions. it is true that in recent years, despite obstacles and difficulties, albania has generally moved forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. however, it is also true that at the same time there are too many problems in this country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to focus on three specific issues which i consider to be of crucial importance and which i believe can be overcome and resolved with the cooperation of the european commission in particular with albania. the first is albania's compliance with the provisions of the council of europe convention on national minorities. there is progress so far in relation to the establishment of a state committee for minorities, the granting of permission, for example, for the establishment of a private greek-albanian school in himara, etc. but there are other issues, commissioner, such as the translation of legislation into minority languages, the inscription of local traditional names, the increase in staff dealing with minority issues, etc. i believe that the commission should deal with these issues directly and make an objective record of them in its annual report to be published in october. the second issue concerns the census of the population: an objective census of the population which adequately records the size of minorities and does not raise doubts as to its accuracy. the third point i would like to stress is the restoration and compensation of assets. because although the law on this matter has been passed since 2004, there is a problem of lack of transparency, abuses and procedural anomalies. in particular in the himara area there is a serious problem with the property of the greek minority. the european union has a duty to help albania to achieve its objectives, and the european union has a duty to help albania to achieve its objectives. and it is the responsibility of the european commission to put into practice what is contained in the text, by putting pressure on and working with the albanian authorities.
president of the council. first of all, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that all the institutions of the union, including this parliament, have a strong and broad commitment to the european perspective of the western balkans. one of the most important practical measures to strengthen this perspective is of course the visa flexibility agreement, and we support the objective that these negotiating mandates for the visa flexibility agreement could be adopted by the council as early as the middle of this year and that these negotiations could be concluded with all the countries of the western balkans within the next year. as has been amply highlighted in this debate, much has already been done in albania to strengthen the european perspective, but much remains to be done. it is one thing to draw up legislation, but it is another to implement it, not to mention cultural changes, which usually take even longer. it should be noted once again that the council expects albania to step up its efforts, in particular in the field of media freedom, restitution and compensation, administrative development, protection of minorities and ensuring that the forthcoming municipal elections are held in accordance with international standards. the change that albania has already experienced and will experience is not easy, and that means that there is a lot of work to be done. the key to the solution is largely in albania's own hands.
member of the commission. mr president, i believe that there is broad agreement in this house on how welcome this new step is for albania and for our policy on the western balkans. it is true that more resolute and determined reform efforts must be undertaken by albania, as well as efforts to build up properly functioning institutions and a democratic culture. i agree with the rapporteur, mr ilves, that this provides albania with a golden opportunity to reform the country in line with the rule of law and all democratic principles. like mrs pack, i also noted the tense situation in the country over the summer and the parliamentary boycott by the opposition. i am, however, pleased that a new political agreement was reached last week, reflecting a new consensus on media and electoral reform. i take this as a sign of the increased maturity of albania’s political culture, and this must be pursued further in the future. i was asked what the commission’s position is on the progress in electoral reform in albania. the commission has underlined, both to the government and to the opposition, the need to restart discussions without delay in the ad hoc parliamentary committee on electoral reform. we have reiterated that reform discussions should take into account the recommendations of the osce’s office for democratic institutions and human rights, following last year’s parliamentary election. i agree fully with mr hatzidakis that the stabilisation and association agreement helps us to coach the country towards european standards as regards electoral reform. there is also a question about the magnetism of the european union and what our view is of any possible application for membership from albania. on behalf of the commission and the union, i have made it clear to albania’s political leadership and to the general public of that country that a sustained track record of successful implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement, as well as a tangible track record of reforms and their implementation on the ground, must be established over time before any consideration of further formal steps towards the european union is possible. implementation, implementation and implementation should be the name of the game in albania now as regards its european aspirations. this concerns especially the need to fight organised crime and corruption. the government of albania has demonstrated a strong will to make serious progress in that field. efforts have to be sustained and in such a way that they do not violate democratic and fundamental rights. the commission will report on albania’s progress in the context of this year’s enlargement package in october or november. i am very glad that the european parliament has invested a lot of time and energy in monitoring and pursuing political dialogue with albania. i am sure that together we can achieve positive results in terms of coaching albania towards its european future. i fully agree with the members who have underlined the importance of visa facilitation for the countries of the western balkans, including albania. the commission made its proposals for the negotiating mandates for the western balkans on visa facilitation in july. i am very glad that the finnish presidency intends to secure the adoption of those mandates before the end of this year. albania already has a readmission agreement in place, so i sincerely hope that a visa facilitation agreement can be negotiated swiftly and then soon implemented. it would be good for civil society and business – particularly small and medium-sized enterprises – and for students, researchers and all citizens. it would contribute to the europeanisation of albanian civil society, which is our common goal.
i would like to inform you that written statement no 38/2006 by carl schlyter, paulo casaca, karl-heinz florenz, mojca drčar murko and caroline lucas on the banning of seal products in the european union has received the signatures of more than half of the members of parliament and will therefore, in accordance with rule 116, be forwarded to its addressee and published in the minutes of the sitting of 26 september 2006.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
voting time is over.
in writing. the kke votes against the report on the european social model, produced by the epp/sdp group, which in the most cynical way reveals the nightmare future that european capital is preparing for workers. the political and ideological expressions of capital are developing a huge propaganda campaign, using the problem of unemployment and attaching threats to demographic ageing, the "risk of collapse" of social security systems, in order to present the urgent need for the "reform" of existing social protection systems. the promotion of capitalist restructuring, within the framework of the lisbon strategy, requires the complete demolition of all the workers' conquests (which were also below the level of popular needs) through the struggles of the workers' movement and the pressure of the existence of the socialist camp. thus, the maximum possible exploitation of the working class is promoted through the complete de-structuring of industrial relations and the generalisation of flexible forms of employment, the de-structuring of pension, health care, welfare and social protection systems (unemployment protection, maternity protection, housing, etc.), the abolition of the public and free nature of public services. the only thing that will remain in place will be the lowest possible level of protection against absolute deprivation, to avoid social explosions.
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, the recent tragic events in lebanon and the deterioration of the situation in the palestinian territories have brought the international community face to face with the impasse in this sensitive region and its implications for world peace and security. and this concerns us particularly as europeans, since the economic, political or ecological consequences of the crisis directly affect the member states of the union, while at the same time hampering the common plan for peace, security, prosperity in the region and the creation of a free trade area by 2010. the european union has therefore vital reasons to pursue peace and development in the region. the commission's intervention must have a greater impact on the peaceful settlement of these problems. the developments in the region have once again shown us the complexity of the situation, which the european union, because of its proximity, its historical and partnership relations with the countries of the region, knows better than any other power. so today, for all its weaknesses, the european union is less divided than it was in the iraq crisis and more aware of the need for joint action. it demonstrates this by its willingness to implement the security council resolution, the need to clarify the content and role of the peacekeeping force and its participation in that force. it must also work for the immediate lifting of the blockade on lebanon so that its political, humanitarian and development intervention can be made more effective. and it must also support the lebanese government, which has been hit by both recent events and the long syrian occupation, and at the same time strengthen democratic institutions and the evolution of the political system into a secular system where creative forces are freed from narrow religious boundaries and operate on the basis of parties and programmatic statements. such a political and social development will bring hezbollah, which remains a myth and a mystery, closer to lebanonization, transparency and participation in solving problems.
mr president, i had decided to start my speech differently, but i will now begin with this: i would like to ask mrs ferrero-waldner to read in le point the article she has written on israeli-palestinian relations, particularly the serious problem of water supply in the palestinian occupied territories because of the israeli practice. the magazine speaks of the apartheid imposed by the israeli authorities on the palestinians over water. what has the council been doing all this time ? last february, he took the decision to freeze financial aid to the palestinian people. on the contrary, israel continues to refuse to pay the palestinian authority the duties and taxes without being pressured, without any action being taken by the european union. i believe, and this is an invitation to the finnish presidency, that the european union and the council of ministers should take a decision to lift the economic sanctions on the palestinian people as soon as president abbas has formed the new government of national unity in palestine. this will be an incentive for the palestinian people, an incentive for the moderate democratic forces of palestine and the forces of hamas to be integrated peacefully into the democratic life of palestine.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his interest in the progress of the amendments to the working time directive and the directive on temporary agency workers. after considerable efforts by the previous austrian presidency, reaching agreement on the working time directive is one of the key objectives of the finnish presidency. the directive should be rapidly followed up by a common solution to comply with the judgments of the court of justice of the european communities in simap and jager. the presidency will therefore make every effort to ensure that the council reaches a compromise solution as soon as possible, including on the outstanding opt-out issue. the directive on temporary agency workers is another complex and politically sensitive issue. as you know, the differences in labour market structures and practices have led to divergent views between the member states and it has been difficult to find the right balance between adequate protection for workers on a temporary basis and the development and growth of the market for companies providing temporary work. member states have recently renewed their commitment to the lisbon objectives of more and better jobs, as reflected in their national reform programmes. the council considers that these objectives can be achieved by respecting the different practices and traditions of the national labour markets. the last time the matter was discussed in the council was in june 2003. since then, the various presidencies have held discussions at different levels to ascertain whether positions have changed. so far, there has been a split of opinion and it has not been appropriate to include this matter on the agenda of future council meetings. as the finnish presidency, finland is looking into the matter and is also looking for input from the commission, which stated in its communication on the screening of pending draft laws that it reserves the right to reconsider the proposal as the debate on other future proposals develops. the presidency is well aware of the importance of the european parliament making progress in this area. we are aware of the position on this matter in the first reading vote on the services directive. if the commission makes the necessary contribution during the presidency, we are prepared to work constructively to find a solution acceptable to all member states.
president of the council. the commitment of the presidency, mr president, is that it will work very actively to find a solution to the working time directive. the fact that interpretation of the working hours of doctors, for example, is causing considerable problems for the member states is another incentive, and it would therefore be very important to find a solution to this directive. but it is too early to judge whether we can achieve the desired outcome.
president of the council. mr president, i am not quite sure whether we are aware of the financial times article, but we are certainly aware of the general developments in many ways, and as i have already pointed out in the recent or original reply, it is also because of the developments in the member states that it is important to reach a solution both in the case of the working time directive and in that of the case of contract workers.
president of the council. mr president, this is certainly one of the things that is worth discussing and that can be raised in the trilogue, but at the moment, in fact, the solution is being actively sought between the governments of the member states.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth emphasizing at the outset the broad scope of the european youth pact. the needs of young people must be taken into account in all relevant policies. many actions, for example in the fields of training and the removal of obstacles to mobility, can be important in improving the employment of young people. the question of the member of parliament is particularly concerned with how the finnish presidency intends to support the commitments of the member states' governments to improve youth employment. member states shall be responsible for the design and implementation of their employment policies, including youth employment policies. member states are also responsible for most other policies in this area, such as education policy. however, the presidency can play an important role in bringing matters to the fore, especially when it comes to organising the work of the council of ministers. the council, which will meet in december under the finnish presidency, is to deal with a number of issues directly related to youth employment. a report by the employment committee shall be submitted to the council, examining the member states' national reform programmes, including their employment policies. as early as last year, the employment committee's review concluded that all member states were addressing youth unemployment in line with the youth pact and were broadly mentioning measures to build appropriate pathways to employment for young people. the link to the second priority, investment in intellectual capital, had been developed very well, inter alia by promoting the transition from education to working life. finland expects that this year the member states' employment policies will also pay attention to youth employment and the means of improving it. e youth employment will certainly be a major topic in the discussions on demographic development and increasing productivity through new and better jobs to be held at the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council on 1 december. the finnish presidency of the council will deal with two issues directly related to improving youth employment. first, improving lifelong learning opportunities is a matter for everyone, including young people. secondly, the finnish presidency will seek to propose concrete measures to improve access to information services for young people and to provide quality information on issues of relevance to all young people, such as employment. special attention will be paid to the most vulnerable young people. the march european council invited the member states to involve young people and youth organisations in the implementation of the european youth pact. the finnish presidency is to discuss at council level the launching of a structured dialogue with and between all actors in the youth field, including young people and youth organisations. in summary, the improvement of youth employment is on the council's agenda in several contexts during the finnish presidency. finland encourages all member states to continue to pay attention to the european youth pact and to the various ways in which youth employment can be improved.
mr president, thank you for your full answer and for the prospects it opens up. part three of the youth pact provides for measures to reconcile family and working life for young people so that new families can be created in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment, and it is therefore proposing to extend the programme to include the following areas: does the finnish presidency intend to present to us at the end of its term the positive results of its work in the area of work-life balance?
mr president, commissioner, according to the official figures of the chinese national bureau of statistics, the growth rate of the chinese economy for the whole of 2005 was revised from 9,9% to 10,2% due to the faster growth of industrial activity and the service sector. the central bank also decided to raise the minimum foreign exchange deposit limit from 3% to 4% with the ultimate aim of limiting the supply of dollars, as the country has foreign exchange reserves of up to eur 941 billion. chinese products, due to their low cost and exchange rate, have a comparative export advantage. china is the world's largest consumer of electricity and the third largest importer of oil, which determines its energy policy and economic development at international and regional level. it is a picture of development which for europe and the united states is a delusional dream. the eu must not, however, regard china's emergence in world trade and the economy as a threat, but as an important new market offering new potential and significant opportunities for economic development and strengthening the european market itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i think that your reference to the policies and tactics of the european union is well received by the european parliament and, on behalf of the socialist group, i would like to congratulate the commission on this political move. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres and the establishment of a european network of information centres. the recent announcements by the chinese government to increase the capital that foreign investors are entitled to hold in domestic enterprises, as well as the draft anti-monopoly law, are particularly positive steps in this direction. the commission's future strategy should not be based on colonial logic or 'trade war' practices, but should protect the interests of european citizens, businesses and workers by promoting cooperation and dialogue with the chinese authorities.
mr president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and to point out that it is a well-known fact that the food crises which have come to light in recent years have created a feeling of insecurity among consumers, with the result that a strong tendency is developing in the market to demand products of high quality and increasingly certified. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. the promotion and implementation of eco-labelling schemes will increase environmental awareness among consumers. and in this way, environmental responsibility is encouraged by making producers more aware of the environmental impact of fisheries and aquaculture. what is needed today is to ensure that a single labelling system is developed with the information and cooperation of all the parties involved, based on the same basic principles and conditions, in accordance with the guidelines of the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao) and the guidelines drawn up by the international organization for standardization. i would also like to stress that public health and the sustainability of fisheries should not be limited to the content of a labelling system. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in fishery products, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a step in the right direction.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs fraga estévez, on her excellent work, as always. i would also like to congratulate the commission on the launch of a dialogue on eco-labelling. products bearing such a label indicate that the catch was produced in accordance with a specific set of environmental rules and that the production method has no negative impact on the environment. it is very important to ensure that the eco-labels are reliable. it is a way of protecting fish stocks, but it is also a way of protecting consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the form of a directive. this effort will be a win-win: consumers, because safe and healthy products will be supplied; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to grant aid to the following types of undertakings: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, since the exploitation of its resources will be carried out in an ecological way. in closing, i would like to make a brief statement: first, labelling should be voluntary; secondly, the labelling must be transparent so that no one can question its reliability. thirdly, the marking must be carried out by an independent authority; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. woe to us if we ignore them! we must sit down at the same table, consult them and make them understand that the effort is in their own interest. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area.
mr president, the question of the transfer of personal data of european citizens via pnr is a matter which has naturally been of great concern to parliament. given the seriousness with which counter-terrorism and fundamental rights issues must be treated, can anyone tell us what exactly this informal meeting of some member states' ministers in london in the middle of the summer, with the participation of the european commission, was about, a meeting at which, it seems, serious new counter-terrorism measures were also proposed? by whose authority was it done? who called this meeting? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. secondly, as regards the pnr agreement itself. we are asking you, mr vice-president, as you have expressly undertaken, to inform us of its contents, whether there are any substantial changes and, in particular, whether the voluntary commitments of the united states are becoming binding. you said here, "they could become binding", you didn't say, "they will become binding". the united states has in recent days given the strong impression that it is avoiding negotiation, that it is threatening not to sign a bilateral agreement and instead to enter into even worse bilateral agreements on pnr with the member states. he's blackmailing us, you know. why do you tolerate this blackmail from a country which yesterday admitted to operating secret prisons around the world in violation of every concept of international law? finally, mr vice-president, please tell us about the history of the european pnr which you seem to have discussed in london. what does that mean ? why is it necessary? why is it proportional? it is a very important step, and i am sure that the commission will take it. how would he have prevented the british or danish citizens now accused of being would-be bombers? how would he have prevented 9/11 or the london or madrid attacks? the european parliament must therefore be informed immediately. no one here denies the need for counterterrorism policy and cooperation. but the law is clear: in a democracy, measures must be necessary, effective and proportionate. the national parliaments and the european parliament must have a say.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, it is regrettable that the european court of justice has not ruled on the substance of the question put to it by the european parliament, and that is why we are in this complicated situation today. we are now called upon to provide a solution under time pressure, because if no solution is found by 30 september then more than 100 000 european passengers a week are in danger of not being able to travel to the united states. i also understand that the recent events in london have increased the interest in some member states in the transfer of data. but i would like to stress that our common objective of safeguarding public safety is self-evident. but the method we use to achieve it will also determine the quality of our societies and will indicate the level and maturity of our civilization. an effort should be made to limit the information that may be requested to what is strictly necessary and with the clear exception of sensitive personal data. but in any case, on such a serious matter, there should be close cooperation between the institutions, with the active - i repeat - active participation of the european parliament and in particular of the committee on civil liberties. and that, at all levels of the negotiations. i accept mr frattini's position that he will keep us informed. but that's not enough. the european parliament cannot be called upon to cover decisions which have already been taken. the european parliament has an obligation to be actively involved in all these sensitive issues. i think that we shall vote for the view expressed in the report by my colleague.
mr president, the debate on the protection of personal data is always a theatre of the absurd. why would you do that? there is an annulment of the decision by the european court of justice and the report and the commission are basically proposing the same agreement, exactly the same, which has been annulled. secondly, the handing over of transaction data from millions of citizens by swift is denounced and at the same time, in the same plenary session of the european parliament, a report is adopted which legitimizes this handing over. thirdly, the existence of secret prisons is being denounced by those who have been in government, who have signed agreements with the united states of america and who are coming into the european parliament and protesting. fourthly, there is a debate on the protection of personal data and democratic rights, and at the same time parliament approves the setting up of a giant electronic filing system with biometric data, schengen ii system, etc. the more you talk about protecting individual rights and individual freedoms, the more the european union is destroying them. and this is a mockery of the people. the so-called 'anti-terrorist campaign' has one objective: to terrorize the people and subjugate them, but we believe that it will not succeed in the end!
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for me personally, but also for my colleagues and the committee on culture and education, because after almost a year of work, i have the pleasure of presenting to the house my report on the protection of europe's natural, architectural and, in general, cultural heritage in rural and island areas. for centuries, with simple materials and means, the inhabitants of the countryside and islands of europe, obeying the basic rules of human scale and the gentleness of the natural environment, have managed to create a built heritage of great aesthetic value. this humble heritage, whose protection and promotion is not only a cultural duty but also a development imperative, has been seriously damaged in many european countries by the responsibility of governments, as a result of social and technological developments, excessive economic exploitation and over-construction, which have led to the deterioration of the landscape and the destruction - especially on the small scale of islands - of the marvellous balance between the natural and built environment and, on the other hand, to the destruction of highly productive agricultural land. my report aims to make concrete proposals for the protection, enhancement and long-term management of this rich heritage of europe's countryside and islands for the benefit of the quality of life of all european citizens. the proposals in the report are addressed to the european union, the member states, local and regional authorities and european citizens who are called upon to take concrete measures to preserve and promote it. because of the limited time, i'll just focus on a few of them: firstly, it is necessary for the union to have a comprehensive strategy for cultural heritage. this will be achieved if the european commission, when drawing up its legislative proposals, considers thoroughly the impact of the proposed legislation on culture, cultural heritage and in particular the folk architectural heritage created by the hand of the folk craftsman over the centuries. in this way, actions in favour of heritage will be integrated into all union policies. as community programmes in the field of culture do not provide sufficient funding, additional resources for heritage conservation should be sought in other community instruments: the common agricultural policy, the structural funds, and the community initiatives leader, urban and interreg, which are to be integrated in the next financial period into the new financial instruments of cohesion policy and the cap. in addition, using community funds, member states should encourage alternative sustainable tourism, which can be a factor in protecting and promoting the architectural heritage of housing estates that have retained most of their character. the culture programme, with its limited budget, has also largely supported projects promoting cultural heritage, but excluding funding for restoration. however, there are other actions which could be funded under the new culture 2007 programme. in particular, a network of architecturally significant settlements from different member states with a population of up to 1000 inhabitants could be created under the multiannual cooperation projects of the programme. these settlements will carry out cultural activities in accordance with the traditions of each region in order to strengthen cooperation between the architecturally and culturally remarkable settlements of europe and to give them the opportunity to highlight their local peculiarities, customs, customs and traditions. the european commission is also called upon to create a new european institution for small, valuable traditional settlements, similar to the 'cultural capitals', where one or two interesting settlements will be selected each year for restoration and rehabilitation interventions and cultural events throughout the year. in order to highlight the architecturally significant housing estates in europe, we also propose the creation, within the framework of the 'european union prize for cultural heritage', of a new category of prize to be awarded to the best overall restoration of a traditional housing estate. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe's built environment, which is made up of sub-assemblies of different architectural styles and periods, is being seriously altered by the over-construction of buildings, and by the existence of incompatible structures which do not correspond to the particular architectural characteristics of the historical area in which they are located. the member states must therefore provide incentives for the partial or total withdrawal of such buildings, while at the same time it is necessary not to support with community funds projects which have been shown to result in the destruction and alteration of important elements of the cultural heritage. finally, the report also proposes that the european union establish a 'european year of cultural heritage' to raise awareness among european citizens of the importance of cultural heritage, regardless of its european, national or local dimension. in conclusion, i would like to thank in particular the secretariat of the committee on culture, the experts who have worked with me and, of course, my colleagues in the committee on culture.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate my compatriot, mr seefunakis, on his very good work. the cultural heritage, commissioner, is an important element of the identity and historical development of the peoples of europe. the protection and preservation of these sites is therefore of particular importance for the education of the younger generation and for respecting european identity, which, apart from its european dimension, is a fundamental value for european citizens. we all find that the spotlight is on the big cities where the most famous monuments are located. however, it is a fact that the european countryside, which represents 90% of the european territory, is suffering from neglect and economic decline. special care should therefore be taken to protect and promote the natural and architectural cultural heritage of island and other rural areas of europe, as these areas retain their characteristics largely unchanged. all actors active in the cultural field must ensure that europe's cultural heritage is preserved and exploited, while respecting the traditional rural environment and ensuring a balance between the population and the environment, and raising awareness of its importance among citizens. the restoration and preservation of forgotten monuments in the regions of the member states could also contribute to the development of rural tourism and, by extension, to the population of the countryside. finally, the recognition and preservation of the common cultural heritage is therefore an important legacy for future generations.
the rapporteur. i would like to propose a change to the second part of paragraph 19 with the following oral amendment: 'multiannual plans to promote well-preserved traditional settlements, possibly with a population of less than 1000 inhabitants; "
in writing. the kke votes against the unacceptable joint resolution signed by representatives of all political groups. the eu has endorsed the nato-us "new middle east" plan, which has led to the war against lebanon, which it calls a "conflict" and blames on israel. in attempting to present the eu as a level playing field, it equates the perpetrators with the victims, and blames the resistance of the peoples against the imperialist policies of israel and the united states. it approves resolution 1701, welcomes the deployment of european occupation troops, and urges the disarmament of popular forces which have heroically resisted the unjust war of aggression. in this way he is consenting to the implementation of the imperialist plans. it blames the palestinians without denouncing their genocide by israel. it does not mention the recognition of a palestinian government or the release of thousands of lebanese-palestinian prisoners in israeli prisons. welcomes the eu's occupation of the middle east, which does not guarantee peace for the benefit of the peoples, but will only exacerbate the situation in order to implement the nato plan for control of the region; the political forces which sign this declaration have a huge responsibility towards the peoples, the popular forces and organisations which have been fighting for years and giving rivers of blood. in this struggle, the kke expresses its solidarity by calling on the peoples to strengthen the struggle against us-european imperialism.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the forestry sector is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. the de-classification of forests and forest areas leading to land use changes, the legalization of large encroachments are, at least for greece, a major cause of fires largely due to arson. the moral author of these crimes is the policies of commercialisation, privatisation and exploitation of forest land for other activities, thus sacrificing important lungs of life on the altar of profit and burdening the environment considerably. in greece, it is even being proposed to change the relevant article of the constitution which protects forests, that is, what is left of them, especially around the big cities and in the developing tourist and residential areas so that there are no obstacles to the implementation of this anti-people anti-environmental policy. the lack of resources and staffing contributes to criminal policies, and the political responsibilities of the eu and governments and the inhumane and anti-environmental consequences of their policies are immediately apparent. the need for compensation and assistance to the victims is both great and immediate. but even more so is the need for a different policy.
mr president, many times our reports to the european parliament concern complaints, complaints about bad procedures in the services, but also political protests and references to current events. today let me refer to a special act of humanity and sensitivity: the decision is that of the well-known catalan football club, barcelona, which this year for the first time, instead of an official commercial sponsor, will display the unicef emblem on its shirts, at a loss of several million euros. with the agreement of the barcelona shareholders and the united nations, unicef and its work will therefore be promoted by the spanish club for five years; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of sport, and that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of sport. as practice has shown, sport, when combined with other social or cultural activities, can bring people together, as we are doing today in the european parliament.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, today is a special day for the european parliament and the committee on culture and for the three colleagues, mrs prets, mrs trüpel and mr beazley, who are the rapporteurs on three separate reports on education in the european union. the mobility of european citizens in the field of education and training contributes significantly to improving the quality of their knowledge, broadening their experience and skills, while at the same time being a unique tool for mutual understanding and a better knowledge of the different cultures that make up europe. it is true that in recent years, thanks to the spread of existing training programmes for mobility, such as comenius, erasmus, and leonardo, the mobility of young people in europe has increased considerably. however, there are still numerous other obstacles which make mobility difficult. even today, the number of young people crossing the borders of their own country to participate in an educational programme remains at relatively low levels. this is linked, among other things, to various practices and omissions by member states which directly or indirectly restrict the mobility of european young people. the european quality charter for mobility, if properly implemented by the member states, can make a significant contribution to removing barriers by providing adequate administrative support to people on the move, including, inter alia, adequate pre-departure preparation, provision of information and assistance, social security, residence permit, housing, transfer of scholarships and loans to the host country. it is also particularly important that the experience gained through these programmes be recognised upon return to the country of origin. particular attention should also be paid to ensuring equal opportunities for participants. in this context, the use of the europass should also be encouraged. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs prets, and the other rapporteurs in particular, because thanks to her work the european mobility charter will be put at the service of the european citizen more quickly.
it is true, mr president, commissioner, that europe has faced many challenges and serious threats in its history, such as unemployment, poverty and job insecurity. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the solutions should be sought away from the notion that competitiveness is achieved through the devaluation of labour. respecting european values and our social sensitivities, but also focusing on knowledge, we can pursue a development path, bearing in mind that the globalisation of economic activity, social progress and environmental protection are based on the continuous development of new skills and the use of new technologies. if we upgrade research centres to be pillars of innovation and professional experience, we will make lifelong learning efficient for the benefit of all. the new skills of workers must be subject to common european evaluation criteria, thus broadening the possibilities for their exploitation. in this context, and with due regard for the specific characteristics of the various occupational sectors and the specific features of the various regions, we must define in a clear, explicit and comprehensive way the axes and perspectives of the european qualifications framework, centred on knowledge as a social good and not as a commodity. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate mr mann.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr camiel eurlings, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on turkey's progress towards accession [2006/2118 (ini) ] (a6-0269/2006).
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr eurlings on his excellent work and report. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in turkey and the turkish government's position on the matter. in fact, the eurlings report is not just a warning, a message to turkey about the steps it must take and the obligations it must honour in order to continue on its european path. but it is also a reaffirmation of the principles on which the european union was built, principles from which we have an obligation not to deviate. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will take a decision on it. the same applies when it speaks of institutional reforms, when it speaks of the peaceful settlement of disputes, when it calls for the signing of the ankara protocol to be honoured and for that protocol to be applied immediately. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, every country, every people that forgets or does not reconcile with its history, at some point has problems. so paragraph 50 that refers to the tragic history of the armenians, the pontic greeks and the assyrians does just that. it calls on turkey to do so. this paragraph is the result of a broad consensus and must remain as it is. it must therefore not be altered in one direction or another by amendments which have been tabled. finally, mr president, i would like to remind those who consider the report to be too rigid that there are democratic citizens in turkey who want a modern turkey, a developed, progressive and european-oriented turkey, and who are fighting for this against the established institutions known to all. they need a message which we will give by voting for the eurlings report.
mr president, the kke members will vote against the eurlings report. firstly, because we are opposed to turkey's accession to the european union for the same reasons we were opposed to greece's accession, and not for cultural reasons. secondly, because this report, like others, is like a tire. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. thirdly, because in serious and controversial points concerning turkey's position on international law the report is exhausted in wishful thinking, repeating the same wishes but without proposing any concrete measures, such as the existence of 40,000 turkish occupation troops in cyprus and the fact that turkey is defiantly ignoring the un decisions and resolutions, with a blunt denial of recognition of the republic of cyprus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i'm not going to. turkey continues to defiantly ignore all these decisions and you continue on the exact same course. fourthly, why do we fundamentally disagree with the implicit reference in paragraph 51 to border disputes between greece and turkey and also with the helsinki conclusions referring them to the international court of justice ... (the speaker is interrupted by the president)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it would be a serious mistake in euro-turkish relations either to belittle the important progress achieved by playing down turkey's negatives or to create an idyllic image by concealing reality. there are forces in europe which follow one view or another for their own reasons. the european union is not prepared to accept the newly elected president of the council of ministers, who is the only one who has been elected by the european parliament. it is time that our message was clear and consistent with the decisions that have been taken. the ninth reform package adopted by the turkish government should be welcomed as a positive element. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the statement by the turkish vice-president, mr mehmet alisehir, to the turkish daily news that his government does not intend to allow the operation of the theological school of halki is indeed worrying and troubling. the demands of the ecumenical patriarchate in constantinople and the demands of the greek minority in imbros and tenedos remain, i am afraid, unresolved. mr president, as commissioner rehn has said before, the principle of pacta sunt servanda in international law must be respected. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union. we must remain firm in support of the strategic objective of turkey's accession to the european union. the european union is also committed to the development of the turkish economy, and the turkish government is committed to the development of the turkish economy. the european path can guarantee the stability and development of turkey. but turkey must overcome the phobias and syndromes of the past. the syndrome of the treaty of sèvres. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's an indicator of democratic maturity and self-confidence for a country. the demand for recognition of the historical traumatic past in the conflicts with the armenians and greeks of the pontus region should not destabilize turkey's national stereotypes. the amendment we have tabled does not impose any new conditions on turkey. we are opposed to the recognition of the genocide of the armenians and the ponts as a political condition.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs jöns, on the effectiveness of the project. the community's progress programme is a very important tool for achieving the objectives of the lisbon agenda in the field of employment and social policy. the importance of this instrument is reflected in the consensus of all the institutions of the european union. it should be stressed that the reference to full and equal access for persons with disabilities to all activities financed by progress contributes to the achievement of the main objectives of the programme, namely combating discrimination and social integration. at the same time, however, i would like to stress that i consider it particularly important to make provision for any compensation for additional burdens - financial or otherwise - arising from disability, in order to ensure the equal participation of disabled people in the programme's activities. finally, i would like to stress the need for the ngos of people with disabilities to be involved at regional, national and european level in the processes provided for in the programmes, which are aimed at transferring good practice and exchanging information to raise citizens' awareness of integration and social protection.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, over the last seven years we have seen the development of instruments such as the european arrest warrant or the transfer of prisoners, which are aimed at strengthening mutual trust between national judicial authorities and at developing a policy leading to the convergence of criminal law. we now approve the commission's decision to set up a new system whereby member states can take into account in criminal proceedings previous convictions against the same person handed down in another member state of the european union. previous convictions handed down in other member states will have the same effect as if they had been handed down in the member state in which the new criminal proceedings are to be opened. i would therefore like to add something else to the arguments mr dimitriou has put forward for the necessity of the measure. that this makes perfect sense because previous convictions shape the perpetrator's personality and play a role in serving a sentence. in conclusion, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his amendments, which have succeeded in reconciling the views of the council and the commission, which were very ambivalent on some key points. finally, i would like to express my hope that the finnish presidency's statement will not remain a mere statement but will become a reality. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i can only express my satisfaction and my warm congratulations to the rapporteur for the fact that important issues highlighted by the european parliament have been accepted by both the council and the commission. i could mention, in relation to the original text, the upgrading of the guidelines of the principle of sustainable development in the interventions of the structural funds and the cohesion fund, equal treatment of men and women and non-discrimination on the basis of sex, race, ethnic origin, religion, disability - with emphasis on accessibility for people with disabilities at all stages of the preparation and implementation of programmes and projects - emphasis on the urban dimension, on the interconnection of cities and rural areas, and on broad partnership. we believe that the success of the programmes depends on the involvement of all the parties concerned - at regional and local level - and in particular the social partners and local authorities, in their planning and implementation. achieving the objective of economic and social cohesion in the new programming period is a real challenge, at a time when inequalities are increasing in the enlarged union and resources for the implementation of cohesion policy are being reduced. the strategic guidelines are an important tool for more efficient and targeted allocation of resources. at the same time, they reinforce the strategic content of cohesion policy and create the framework for its synergy with the lisbon strategy. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. in the new programming period and in view of the mid-term review, cohesion policy will have to prove - let me say - its need for existence and continuity. all these and other qualitative features introduced by parliament, either in the regulations or in the guidelines, will be what will help it to achieve its objectives. member states and regions should take them into account when drawing up their national strategic reference frameworks and operational programmes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, with mrs krehl's report, which i would like to congratulate on the work she has done, we are finishing the legislation on the structural funds for the period 2007-2013 and we are moving on to the practical implementation of the legislation. the question is: is the legislation we have voted for the best? the answer is no! in my opinion, it could be a lot better. but given the balances in this union - of which our countries are members - the european union of 25 states, i can say that it is the best possible. and so we now have the challenge of not only seeing how the 308 billion for the cohesion budget will be absorbed by the member states and the regions, but also how all this money will be used. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs is a very good one. where will the money go? what are the priority areas? and it is, of course, perfectly right that cohesion policy is linked to the lisbon strategy, which is also clearly expressed in the guidelines. it would perhaps have been better if it had been linked in a clearer and more concrete way, or if the lisbon policy had been given a narrower definition to cover some sectors - truly cutting-edge - for the european union's economy. anyway, now is the time for responsibility. it is time for the commission to take responsibility, it is time for the member states, and especially the ten new member states, which will have to take a quick lesson in how the community support framework works, and it is time for us to take responsibility for the controls. we're not done for the day. i'd say it starts today.
mr president, commissioner, we did not need a united states intelligence committee to tell us that the war in iraq would increase rather than reduce the threat of terrorism in europe and the world. the european union must not be surprised if it is revealed that secret prisons, the flexible interpretation of the geneva convention, the monitoring of thousands of telephones, the suspicion of every european traveller, the treatment of the millions of immigrants living among us not with integration measures but with repressive measures, are not only giving terrorists an excuse to convert, but are above all measures that undermine the sense of security and democracy in the heart of europe itself. the european parliament is not naive or romantic in matters of counter-terrorism. it has been too late to demand tough measures to deal with all these murderers. but it also insists on the application of european law and the protection of fundamental rights. the balanced and firm stance of parliament, however, seems to be bothering some eu ministers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. among them, unfortunately, is the greek minister of justice, who should be much more careful after yesterday's revelation that the greek government had secretly agreed in 2004 with the us to facilitate the transfer of thousands of data - not only greek but european citizens - during and after the olympic games in athens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but in europe there seem to be some who want to draw the line and say that democracy does not count here.
mr president, we have all realised that it is now imperative to move towards a common response to terrorism, organised crime and illegal immigration. more specifically, on migration: coordination of the structures involved in managing migration flows and simplification of decision-making procedures using strengthened majority voting are necessary. the need to respect solidarity and fair burden-sharing between member states, even those not facing migratory pressures, should also be emphasised. we must also stress the need for cooperation between all of us in the effective control of the external borders. particular emphasis should be placed on better management of europe's maritime borders by creating a mediterranean coastguard to prevent human tragedies and control migration flows. finally, it should be understood that the unilateral legalization of illegal immigrants is not only not a solution, but creates greater migratory pressures and unpredictable developments. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products, the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products and the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. the kke votes against the report because, despite the improvements it proposes in the european commission's proposal for a directive, it accepts in essence its basic philosophy as a whole, which is none other than the unlimited and practically uncontrollable possibility of the prosecuting authorities and repressive mechanisms not only of the eu member states but also of third countries (say the usa), even private individuals (!) to collect, process and exchange among themselves all the personal data of every eu citizen, including data concerning his political and trade union activity, his ideological, philosophical and religious beliefs! the eu's giant "cover" mechanism is now targeting every eu citizen, allowing the collection and transfer of personal data of any person without even being suspected of any act, simply for reasons of public order and security!! the right to privacy and the protection of personal data is effectively abolished, since the proposed directive on the so-called protection of personal data establishes exceptions to this protection as the rule, simply and unchecked by the invention of public security reasons, while data protection is the exception, which is almost impossible to enforce.
in writing. the report is moving towards the harmonisation of the rules of criminal procedure and the 'communitisation' of criminal law at eu level, in the context of the implementation of the hague programme for the creation of a single 'safe area of freedom and justice'. the committee also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament and the council are able to take account of the views of the european parliament and the council on the future of the union. in this way, eu law adds another tool to the effort to impose on national criminal laws the eu's supranational regulations which define the behaviour which it considers to be punishable. it is another step towards tightening the noose around individual freedoms, it targets the action of the mass popular movement and creates the conditions for the militant activities of the movement to be characterized as punishable. the kke opposes the report and calls on workers to step up their action, through the labour and wider popular movement, to defend democratic rights and popular freedoms.
in writing. public services, with their separation into economic and non-economic services, are targeted by big capital in order to commercialise the satisfaction of basic needs and increase the profitability of the public sector. the eu is strengthening its prohibition of state aid under the pretext of protecting competition, and is promoting the full liberalisation and privatisation of services in order to allow the penetration of large capital. in the context of the single market and the stability pact, member states sell off the wealth of the people by strengthening the plutocracy. the eu says capital-efficient services must be sold off. the effects of this policy will be particularly painful for the workers. thousands of jobs lost, working conditions worsened, living standards fell. the consequences for all users of these services, and particularly for the lower classes, will be particularly negative. the consequences are already apparent in services which have been 'victims' of capitalist restructuring and privatisation policies. the committee voted against the resolution which accepted the separation of the economic and non-economic services of the ecsc and encouraged the sale and commercialisation of these services. it sympathizes with workers who are fighting for better and cheaper public services for the benefit of the people's living standards and not for monopoly profits.
in writing. i voted in favour of the eurlings report on turkey's progress towards accession to the european union. i am in favour of turkey's european perspective. the turkish authorities must, however, act swiftly on the commitments they have made in accordance with the copenhagen criteria. the european parliament rightly insists on turkey's practical compliance with european standards and rejects the washington-london axis's push for a la carte discounts, especially for turkey. i am particularly pleased that amendments seeking to degrade the cyprus problem have been rejected and that amendments by the european united left which stress the need for a political solution to the kurdish problem have been adopted. the turkish leadership must implement the commitments it has made through a specific road map. it is inconceivable that a country which wants to join the union should not respect european principles in practice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, unfortunately the war in lebanon and the conflict in the middle east have absorbed international attention and international news in relation to the tragic developments in darfur, this humanitarian crisis, this genocide, ethnic cleansing and war crimes. we have the un security council resolution 1706, which we all of course call for to be implemented. but, ladies and gentlemen, in resolution 1701 on lebanon we had the international mobilization for its full implementation. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be the sole arbiter of the world's problems, and it must not be allowed to continue to be the arbiter of the world's problems. i believe, commissioner, that the european union has a moral responsibility, not just a political and strategic one, to take initiatives. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. on october 20th we have the summit. it is also necessary for you to take an initiative on behalf of the european union in the security council so that there is a common position of all the members of the security council on the solution of the problem, on the final implementation of resolution 1706. and because we have to be frank, there is an obligation to take initiatives on the chinese side as well. china is one of the countries responsible for prolonging this impasse, this crisis. the arab league has the same responsibility. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the new treaty, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the new treaty. the council has already taken a decision on the matter, and i hope that the commission will take it up with us in the near future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has been very active and very good. i can assure you that the council is not indifferent to the situation in sudan and darfur. we all agree that the developments have been very worrying and that we must do everything we can now and in the future to improve the security and humanitarian situation in darfur. everything that can be done, or at least a great deal of it, is done all the time. we will maintain active diplomatic contacts with the various parties and third countries in order to obtain the widest possible support for the un resolution and its implementation and to be able to increase pressure on the sudanese government. the eusr has an important role to play in sudan in ensuring that all parties on the ground commit themselves to this peace process, otherwise a lasting peace cannot be achieved. it is very important and positive that the african union has shown through its own amis mission that it is strongly committed to resolving this crisis. that is the commitment that the european union has supported and continues to support in supporting amis, for example through logistics, material assistance, planning and other similar activities. the african union has decided to increase its peacekeeping force, the amis operation, by 4,000 personnel, bringing its total to 11,000. once a un operation is launched in the region, the easiest way to support its acceptability in the eyes of the sudanese government may be to build the operation on the basis of african and asian forces. it should also be remembered that the other neighbouring countries in this region have a very important role to play in border and refugee issues. the human rights situation in that region is very worrying, as has been brought out in this debate. the european union has raised these human rights issues by including them in the agenda of the un human rights council which is now under way. as regards the case of genocide, and particularly the term, it should be remembered that the international criminal court is currently examining the question of genocide and the european union is supporting the work of the court. there is no single key to solving the question of darfur and sudan, but it is very important that we proceed efficiently, on a large scale, in a coordinated manner and in good cooperation through all possible channels.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with the conclusions of the minister, who represents the presidency. i think that no one in this house has any doubts about the catastrophic scale of the darfur tragedy, nor can there be any doubt that it is, in essence, a genuine genocide. but today's debate touches on a much more general political issue, one of the greatest importance for this parliament and for the institutions of the european union in general, namely the role of the european union as the promoter and defender of fundamental rights outside its own borders. we often ask ourselves whether the european union can and should - i believe it can and should - be the bearer in the world of the fundamental rights of respect for human dignity first and foremost, a human dignity which is completely erased by the tragedy of darfur, but to do this the great political debate we have to face is how europe can take these values beyond its borders and defend them if we have interlocutors like the sudanese government, which tolerates and encourages fundamentalism and the harshest and most horrible measures taken by the militias. well, many of you have said, quite bluntly, "let us go with soldiers and weapons, let us apply article 7, let us bring a military force that will forcefully put an end to this catastrophic situation". i am well aware that this is one of the possibilities provided for in the international treaties, but i wonder: 'we europeans have often spoken of ensuring, precisely in promoting human rights in the world, the so-called ownership principle, in other words we cannot impose, by deciding here in strasbourg or brussels, what is the right way to go for another country or for another continent.' we must work with local institutions, and in my view the first recipe is to work with the african union, strengthening its role, ensuring that it is given concrete help, that we do not see a europe in the distance and then suddenly there to promote with soldiers and weapons a role that, if anything, the african union must strengthen and empower. this is the first step, as the presidency has just said, and the second step will be logistical aid on the ground. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. how can we ensure that humanitarian aid actually reaches the people who need it, the suffering population, the ngos on the ground who risk their lives? so logistical support on the ground is another area where we as the european union can make a difference. the third step, and some have remembered it too little, is how to work with the arab league. in many parts of the world, we are confronted with the sensibilities of islamic or arab countries, which in some cases are our strong allies, for example in the fight against terrorism, and in other cases show such a heightened sensibility that they advise us to reach agreements before we intervene. what's the difference between darfur and lebanon? the difference is that lebanon had the agreement and the soldiers went as peace-keeping because the lebanese government and the israeli government together agreed. the sudanese government continues to refuse. do you think it is possible to intervene unilaterally without a decisive role for the arab league? do you not think that in that large population which unfortunately supports the most fundamentalist ideas in the world, such an action, without a strong role for the arab league, would send an extremely negative signal of strengthening the extremists and fundamentalists, who would have an additional propaganda argument? the third recipe is the arab league. we are working to encourage the arab league to disengage from the sudanese government, to withdraw its consent and support; and that's partly what's happening, as you know, and we need to work more in that direction. there is another theme that someone has brought up: "but if the government in khartoum does not listen to the calls of the international community, what happened?" i have always been of the opinion that military action, even if humanitarian intervention is justified by article 7 of the treaty, is still an extreme ratio. there are other intermediate steps, and in this connection i have heard someone evoke the "no-fly zone": it is a measure that could be explored, adopted and proposed. you know that if we were to propose to the security council an article 7 action, china, whether we like it or not, would probably veto it and so nothing would happen. so i ask myself: "isn't it better to work on an initiative, perhaps not decisive but useful, like blocking the overflight of planes, which bring death, which bomb, which strike? " this is another real possibility. i shall conclude with two points. the first: president barroso and his colleague louis michel will go to khartoum. they will send a strong message to the highest authorities of the sudanese government that the european union intends to take strong diplomatic action, but also on the ground, to help the suffering people. the message will reflect on the isolation sudan would face if it continued to refuse to listen to the international community, which would be devastating to sudan itself: there is no point in khartoum being isolated from the rest of the international community, and that would, ladies and gentlemen, remove the alibi for president bashir to maintain such a negative attitude. another very important point on which the commission will be speaking will be the role of women and children. we talk about it a lot here in europe, we deal with victims of trafficking, forced prostitution; we have identified a european road map for children's rights. it is clear that we cannot turn a blind eye to the rights of women and children outside europe in a dramatic case such as that of darfur. so i personally hope that this parliament will make a firm stand in its action on darfur precisely for the special protection of women and children who are, as always, the most vulnerable victims.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr sajjad karim, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the economic and trade relations of the european union with india, [2006/2034 (ini) ], (a6-0256/2006).
mr president, india's size and dynamic growth rate make it an important trade and economic partner of the union. india is the only large and dynamic economy in asia where the european union maintains a leading position in terms of external trade and foreign investment flows. however, the bilateral barrier is uneven, as india is only the union's 10th largest trading partner. however, it should also be underlined that india is the largest beneficiary of the generalised system of preferences with preferential access to the union market. despite the spectacular expansion of bilateral cooperation, the volume of trade and investment is falling short of existing potential. the results of the exploratory contacts for a bilateral trade and investment agreement are, in my view, a positive development. the implementation of the agreement, however, requires a strong political will on both sides. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this context, the high import duties and the extensive technical barriers maintained by india should, inter alia, be addressed. issues of common interest, such as more effective protection of intellectual property and geographical indications, are also of particular importance. finally, an important component of the broader strategic partnership is further support for synergies in the field of science and technology. the commissioner also mentioned that the prospects for strengthening the union's intra-regional relations with the south asian association for regional cooperation should be explored and broadened. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate mr karim on his creative contribution to the work of the committee on international trade and the european parliament in general.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mr karim on his very important report. but, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to touch on another matter. we are all of course in favour of developing a strategic partnership with india. india is a powerful emerging economy, a new geostrategic hub in the wider region of asia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must have a common strategy, which transcends the individual national interests of the member states. the recent case of mittal-arcelor shows that we must not follow this division between the interests of the european union at european level. india, as we said, is a very important player. but we have to look at the other side. india has now signed a nuclear energy agreement with the united states, which creates a new framework and a new balance of power in the asian region. we must ask india to sign the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. it is very serious for our future relations with india. on the other hand, we must realise that india has a serious share of responsibility for the failure of the doha round in the world trade organisation. it is india that is abusing the anti-dumping rules, it is india that is abusing social and environmental dumping. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. mr president, thank you for your comments, from which it is clear that we all attach great importance to comprehensive relations between the union and india. only last week, on 19 september 2006, the eu-india high level trade group finalised its report to the 13 october 2006 eu-india summit and concluded that an expanded trade partnership should be developed through the negotiation of a broad-based trade and investment agreement. this forms the basis for the high level trade group's recommendation to the eu-india summit. it augurs well for an agreement at the summit that there is a strong case for launching bilateral fta negotiations and that the parties are ready to take the necessary steps to start negotiations. the areas forming the basis of bilateral eu-india relations, as covered by the three eu-india subcommittee meetings, range from economic policy, dialogue and cooperation, including on industrial policy, science and technology, finance and monetary affairs, the environment, clean development and climate change, energy cooperation, information and communication technologies, civil aviation, maritime transport, space technology, agriculture and marine policy, customs, employment and social policy, business cooperation and development cooperation, to trade and investment and the bringing together of peoples and cultures. many of those areas will no doubt form the subject of discussions at the eu-india business summit on 12 october 2006 and the political summit on 13 october 2006, with a view to making progress in all areas of eu-india relations. it is in our mutual interest to build on a rich history of experience and partnership with india. the issue of the free trade agreement with india presents us with a number of possibilities. an agreement with india would present various advantages, such as the consolidation of the european union's privileged position in an important and growing market. india is the only major emerging economy with the european union as both its largest trading partner and its largest investor. whilst there have been sizeable reforms, access to india's market is still very restricted, with applied tariffs in certain sectors at over 30% and many caps on foreign direct investment (fdi) in the services sector. the reduction of tariffs for eu companies and the liberalisation of trade in services would secure access to a rapidly growing market and thereby contribute to competitiveness. a secondary benefit would be to lock in india's economic reforms to the advantage of its and the region's long-term economic growth. the visibility and economic benefits of an fta with the european union would support india's programme of reforms and provide a more stable investment climate. the doha development agenda does not preclude bilateral free trade agreements, and the conclusion of such free trade agreements does not and would not prejudice the completion of the doha development agenda. the european union and india remain committed to the rules-based multilateral trading system. the successful outcome of the dda multilateral trade negotiations remains their foremost trade-policy priority. india and the union will continue to collaborate closely on mutual interests and to play leading roles regarding the dda. in the speech which commissioner mandelson delivered in berlin on 18 september 2006, he indicated that the central strand of the october trade policy review would argue that the eu should seek to build on and complement its commitment to the multilateral trading system with a new generation of bilateral free trade agreements with key growing markets. while europe continues to be highly competitive in global export markets, european companies are losing ground in the highest technology products and the fastest growing markets. in rapidly growing regions such as asia, the european union is underperforming. there is now a case for new bilateral free trade agreements designed to deliver more open markets. ftas can build on wto multilateral liberalisation by addressing areas, such as trade and services, public procurement and competition policy, that are not yet fully addressed by wto rules. in this respect, the deepening of eu-india bilateral trade relations supports the larger multilateral trading regime. finally, as many of you have said during the discussion, strengthening eu-india relations represents a great hope: that of reducing the wealth gap existing in that country, of improving the conditions for workers and ensuring better standards of protection for all workers, in particular for women and children, and of improving the quality of life of the indian people in general which, as has rightly been pointed out, is still such that 190 million people live on less than usd 1 a day.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon. the house will be able to take part in the conference of presidents, open to all members, at which the lebanese prime minister, mr siniora, will be present to exchange views on the situation in the middle east. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
madam president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done on his report. as is well known, the fisheries sector makes a major contribution to the economic and social well-being of coastal and island regions and to the maintenance of their cohesion. it also contributes to the supply of fishery products with high biological value, to the employment of a significant number of workers in sectors related to fishing and to the preservation of local cultural traditions. i think it is appropriate to set up a community programme to support small-scale coastal fishing and fishing by traditional means. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. in conclusion, i would like to agree with the rapporteur that eco-labelling could greatly facilitate the diversification of fishery products and be an essential trade incentive for sustainable fisheries.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report. the fisheries sector is in a bad way and is shrinking. it is estimated that over the last 10 years fishermen have been decreasing by 4 to 5% a year, vessels have been decreasing by 20%, catches have been decreasing by 28%, the only thing increasing is the cost of catching. i would like to point out that since 2004 the cost of fuel has increased by 100%, while the income of fishermen has fallen by 25%. support measures must be taken. i am glad that the commission is the first to recognize the need for support measures. i am not happy because the measures it provides for are not sufficient. we must make use of all the possibilities for support from the community budget for the remainder of the financial year 2006. there must be tax exemptions, otherwise fisheries undertakings will not be able to compete with undertakings in third countries with three times the operating costs. increase the amount of compensation, increase the period of aid to 12 months. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the environment, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the marine environment. in the long term, the replacement of engines without reducing their power must be encouraged. the sea is full of dangers. we do not want our fishermen to drown, so they must have new and safe machinery for their own protection. support coastal fisheries in view of their important social role. to take measures to combat marine pollution and illegal fishing to protect fish stocks. finally, the fisheries sector must be saved because fishermen are an important part of european tradition, culture and civilization. i also remind you that they offer healthy food to consumers.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. today we pay a high price because our diet is made up of products that are largely unhealthy, many of which are laden with various agrochemicals. we must adopt the mediterranean diet using products that are low in fertilisers and pesticides. organic products are coming to provide better nutrition and that is why they have been growing in recent years, which is very right. the european union, in its desire to protect the consumer, has put in place sound production rules and strict controls, and i think it is doing the right thing. i have some doubts, however, about organic products imported from third countries, that is, whether they are produced in accordance with the standards applied in the european union. the certificates accompanying organic products from third countries must always refer to the consignment in question. third country undertakings producing organic products for export to the european union should be audited annually. the european union wants organic products, but for the sake of consumer protection and equal competition with our own farmers all these checks must be carried out, otherwise we will not have any effect. we are simply helping the supermarket chains to get richer at the expense of the health of the consumer and at the expense of european farmers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today the european parliament, with the ransdorf report, which i congratulate, is sending an important and concrete message: that nanotechnologies, with their amazing potential and development prospects, are at the heart of the european union's development policies. our researchers in this field are not inferior to any other. on the contrary, it could be said that they are the world's first today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. public-private partnerships are needed. universities, research centres, industry, businesses, banks, they should come together and work closely and with vision. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. they're going to change the world as we know it. ladies and gentlemen, nanotechnology and nanoscience will be to the 21st century what the internet was to the 20th. we cannot afford to relive the european paradox of the past. in the past, the internet, a purely european idea, was best exploited by america. it is time for us as the european union to show that we are not only capable of developing new ideas, but also of putting them to use for the benefit of the european citizens.
in writing. 70% of organically produced products imported are imported under import licences. the checks are based on documents and not on-the-spot sampling. this procedure is rightly criticised. this raises the question of ensuring that organic products placed on the market with the eu-wide organic label must have been produced in accordance with the principles and provisions of regulation (eec) no 2092/91 without exception. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'organic' in the definition of organic products. the community regulation governing the conditions for the production of organic products in the eu countries is much stricter than the codex alimentarius code. we also agree with the proposed regulation on the production, labelling and import of organic products. however, we disagree with the statement that certification can be done by accredited private bodies with reasonable certification fees. we believe that the public interest cannot be effectively protected by private bodies, even if they are accredited by and are monitored by the respective state bodies. the public interest is better protected by public bodies providing certification free of charge to organic farmers, as a free service, an incentive to develop organic farming.
in writing. the fisheries sector is important both in the food chain and in the local economic development of areas. in particular in remote areas such as the aegean islands in greece, survival depends on fishing while contributing to the preservation of local cultural traditions. in recent years, problems, especially in coastal fishing, have been numerous and have been contributed to by the mca, the vessel withdrawal programmes, the reduction in selling prices by fishermen - without any reduction for consumers - and the increase in costs due to oil. the result is that the industry is in crisis, incomes are falling dramatically and areas are becoming deserted. the commission's communication identifies the industry's difficulty, but the solutions it proposes are unsustainable. not only do they not solve problems, they will create more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is proposing instead a 'reduction in fishing effort' and 'fleet adjustment'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing industry is not left behind. this policy of the eu and governments is reprehensible, because it creates cartels in most sectors, exploiting producers and consumers.
member of the commission. mr president, i am speaking on behalf of my colleague, commissioner ferrero-waldner, who is unable to be here this afternoon. i want to thank you for giving me this opportunity to report on the successful outcome of the sixth summit of the asia-europe meeting held in helsinki on 10 and 11 september. the summit was attended by all 39 asem partners, including the commission, 35 of them at head of state or government level. the very high attendance testifies to the great importance attached by partners to the asia-europe relationship as asem enters its second decade. foremost among the deliverables of the summit was the decision to admit bulgaria, romania, india, mongolia, pakistan and the asean secretariat to asem. the opening to south-east asia is an historic development which will significantly reinforce asem’s collective weight in promoting multilateralism and advancing shared policy goals in the international arena. under the overarching theme of ‘global challenges – joint responses’, president barroso stressed the borderless nature of the challenges and threats facing today’s world and the need for a concerted response. global issues such as terrorism and health threats could only be tackled through the multilateral international system, with the un at its core. to preserve an open and fair multilateral trading system, it was essential to resume the doha negotiations as soon as circumstances permit. however, appropriate economic, education, employment and social policies had to be adopted to improve society’s capacity to adjust and enhance social cohesion while pursuing productivity growth. the development of a knowledge society was another essential element in ensuring sustainable growth and global competitiveness. the president joined other partners in giving strong support to intercultural and interfaith dialogue. harmony in diversity was possible, and there could only be zero tolerance for intolerance. the president shared with others deep concern at the progress of climate change, and called on partners to work together to achieve efficient, clean and sustainable energy use and the reduction of emissions. it was significant that the summit was able to adopt an ambitious declaration on climate change, containing a common undertaking to fully implement commitments under the united nations framework convention and its kyoto protocol. leaders engaged in really open and frank discussions on major regional developments including the korean peninsula, burma/myanmar and the middle east. in the presence of the burma/myanmar foreign minister, member states expressed deep disappointment at the lack of progress towards democracy in the country since the hanoi summit in 2004. looking forward, the summit adopted a declaration on the future of asem, identifying areas on which asem should focus its work to prepare for the next summit in beijing in 2008 and beyond. in addition to the bilateral summits with the republic of korea and china, president barroso had meetings with the president of indonesia and the prime minister of singapore, and commissioner ferrero-waldner met the foreign ministers of vietnam, thailand, indonesia and the philippines. much of asem’s value lies in its ability to bring into play all relevant stakeholders. the president of the asia-europe parliamentary partnership addressed the leaders at the summit for the first time, and representatives of ngos, business communities and trade unions also met alongside the summit. the helsinki summit has given asem a fresh vitality as it enters its second decade and, with the enlargement, an even greater capacity to influence the international agenda. the commission will continue to fulfil its role in seeking to realise the forum’s full potential.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank commissioner mccreevy in particular for the information he has given us on the helsinki summit. the emergence, ladies and gentlemen, of asia's geo-strategic and geo-economic role and the dynamic emergence of strong emerging economies are shaping the new international framework within which the european union is called upon to address the serious political, economic, energy and environmental challenges posed by globalisation. today, ladies and gentlemen, asia is the dynamic presence in the international system, influencing it and helping to shape the new power relations of the 21st century. it is not by chance, however, that the new un secretary-general will come from the asian region, even if only symbolically. the need for the european union to make effective use of the new asian environment is therefore becoming more urgent today, as the european union is preparing to take on the challenge of the new asian environment. the institutionalisation of annual summits contributes to dialogue and multilateral cooperation in areas critical to the future of humanity, such as peace, security, energy, the environment, economic and social development. in this respect, the helsinki summit was a success, reaffirming some of the basic principles of multilateral cooperation and identifying the key priorities for meeting new international challenges. but we must not, ladies and gentlemen, be under any illusions or have any great expectations, because the european union does not have a comprehensive common strategy for asia, with policies and mechanisms to influence developments. the sum of the national strategies of the member states does not constitute a solid basis for a common european strategy. in addition, the strong asian countries - beyond the framework of general declarations - have already formulated and are consistently pursuing their national strategy agenda in the fields of energy, trade, and the resolution of international and regional problems. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i would like to stress in particular that the eu may have a positive statistical record in its economic and trade relations with the countries of asia, but this cannot hide the unpleasant reality of the negative balance for asia in the protection of human rights, democratic freedoms, the defence of the principles of tolerance and diversity. the recent coup in thailand and the democratic deficit in many asian countries confirm this. moreover, the rise of islamic fundamentalism poses risks to wider stability and security. i have the feeling, mr president, that at every summit there is a glut of wish-lists and a lack of clear commitments and objectives to be achieved. the european commission could therefore give us some ideas on the operational follow-up to the summits and the institutional restructuring of eu-asia relations which is necessary in my view.
mr president, i listened very carefully to what both the minister and commissioner frattini said. the two sides agreed that the agreement reached had positive elements for europe. my view is that the views that prevailed were american. i have three specific comments on this interim agreement. firstly, it is stated in the agreement, and mr frattini has also said this, that the number of data transferred remains unchanged, but that agreement leaves open the possibility of including new data on those who are 'freequent flyers'. i think that this report is open to many interpretations. the commissioner can explain to the house what is the situation? secondly, the transfer from the pull system to the push system has been accepted, but this means that the airlines will have to upgrade their own systems. the commissioner can tell us who will bear the cost of this transfer to the new system? i'm afraid the cost will eventually be passed on to the passenger and the ticket. thirdly, i am concerned about the retention of the term 'adequate' used to indicate the degree of protection of data. really, who decides that this grade is adequate? are the assurances given by the american side sufficient? the commissioner can tell us what guarantees we have for the effective protection of data? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the new deal must be more balanced than this one.
mr president, the temporary pnr agreement with the united states continues to treat as non-binding the us unilateral undertakings for the proper use and protection of personal data in the form of a protocol. why? and how is it possible that the european council in this case concluded an agreement that seems more flexible on us obligations than even the agreement that a mere private company, swift, was apparently able to negotiate with us authorities for the unacceptable transfer of banking data? swift, for example, has claimed that it can in real time block any us search if it violates the causes for which it has been agreed. the pnr and swift cases reveal a dangerous political and legal black hole in the protection of our fundamental rights. a third country invoking exclusively reasons of its own national security can apparently impose upon europe, including directly upon private companies, the level of access to, use, and even protection of, data. this is clearly unacceptable, and, while the whole eu pillar structure has de facto collapsed in these two cases, the council insists upon denying parliament the role of an equal partner in fighting terrorism and in protecting fundamental rights. what is now urgently needed is a comprehensive and democratic european approach in cooperation with all our partners on a global level to deal with these issues in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, i too subscribe to the objections raised by mr barón crespo to the commission's attitude in such crucial debates. the question of anti-dumping duties on footwear has divided the member states of the union. it also showed conflicting interests between manufacturers on the one hand and suppliers and consumers on the other. we, as the european people's party - european democrats, remain committed to multilateralism, to open and balanced international trade. but i consider the arguments against the adoption of these measures, namely protectionism in favour of industry and passing the cost on to european consumers, to be misleading and unfounded. ladies and gentlemen, it must be made clear that the imposition of tariffs is a justified measure of legitimate trade defence. or, if you will, a derivative protective measure. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the application of the anti-dumping measures in force. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of tariffs. did consumers benefit from the decrease in import prices after liberalisation? obviously not. as the commission itself confirms, there was no benefit to the european consumer, as prices remained stable or even slightly increased in some cases. the european union must send a clear message: we must not allow the european union to be the only one to do this. yeah, the competition. not in its obvious or hidden distortion. the union is and will remain an open market to partners who respect the rules and disciplines of the multilateral trading system.
mr president, the recent decision by the council of ministers to impose anti-dumping duties leads me to two crucial points. the first concerns the effectiveness of the common commercial policy and the mechanisms it has in place to defend european interests. unfortunately, once again, china as a member of the world trade organization continues to dump through its state policy. the european commission, for its part, continues to monitor this practice as a neutral observer. we have vietnam on the other side, which is also continuing to take dumping measures, while at the same time it wants to become a member of the world trade organization. i believe that the european commission should also send a message to the vietnamese authorities if they wish to join the world trade organisation. the second point, mr president, is more serious and relates to the very future of the european union, to the defence of the european fabric of production. in europe there are not only consumers whose interests we must defend, of course, but also workers who lose their jobs and are left unemployed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i too agree with the previous speakers that the reconstruction agency for the balkans has indeed played a very important role, not just initially in the dispatch of humanitarian aid, but mainly in the reconstruction and strengthening of democratic reforms and in the consolidation of democratic institutions in the western balkan countries. this role was particularly strengthened and, in a sense, legitimised by the decisions of the thessaloniki european council in june 2003 to support the european perspective of the balkan countries, a support which we must constantly renew with acts and decisions. of course, this role was made more effective by the choice of thessaloniki as the seat of the service, due to its geographical proximity to the area and due to its knowledge of the area. as we have seen, the agency was created at a difficult time for the balkans. i am afraid that today is also a difficult period, we are at a dead end in the negotiations on kosovo, so we need - and here i am appealing to commissioner rehn - to pay particular attention and to move immediately to the new responsibilities in the local commission delegations in the capitals of the western balkans, so that there is no vacuum. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. i would also say, commissioner, that you should be flexible, not dogmatic, even in the event of negative developments in the balkans, so that provision can be made now for the extension of the service in thessaloniki for a short time, even beyond december 2008, depending on local developments. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the process of reconstruction in the balkans is not a technocratic process. it is a deeply political process, which is why the european commission should regularly inform the european parliament and i agree with my colleague mr kacin that periodic reports should be made on the functioning of the local authorities.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. mrs jeggle is a sensitive, capable and excellent mep. the great indian leader gandhi said that when man treats animals well, he shows his humanity and his higher feelings. i therefore agree with everything mrs jeggle suggests, without any doubt. i would like to point out, however, a delicate and important point which has to do with the farmer, which has to do with man. i am not referring to pets, cockfights, dogfights, where i agree with the rapporteur, but i am referring to farmed animals. if the measures in the report are implemented, which i agree with and support, then our farmers will have a higher cost of production and we will therefore have to either support them financially or find ways of controlling the lifestyle of animals raised in third countries and imported into the european union. otherwise we'll never get anywhere. the european livestock industry will be reduced by unfair competition and we will prove that we are hypocrites and not animal lovers and that we have no sense of proper solidarity in the ranching class. i would also like to stress another point. i would like to see more strictness on the subject of hunting wild animals. so many of our mountains, so many of our forests are now without wildlife because there is rampant, predatory killing of animals. and this isn't just about animals. the whole ecosystem of the mountains and forests of europe and the world is being disrupted.
member of the commission. thank you for your contributions to this debate. i will inform my colleague, commissioner fischer boel, about the concerns you have raised. all these points are being considered and discussed at length in the framework of the preparation of the forthcoming fruit and vegetables reform that is just around the corner. i shall do my utmost to respond to some of the issues you raised. mr tabajdi’s question centred around the idea that the commission should introduce support for producer organisations that sell soft fruit to the processing industry. another point he made concerned support for producer organisations that sell soft fruit to the processing industry at a time when existing schemes are being reviewed in the context of the reform of the sector. the commission considers that the introduction of such a support scheme would be inadequate from a technical point of view. it would also be untimely and would not be in line with the principles behind cap reform. ‘the commission should devise and implement measures restricting excessive imports of soft fruit, in particular those which apply dumping prices’. it is true that some of the difficulties faced in the sector of strawberries for processing originate from low-priced imports of frozen strawberries from third countries. yesterday, the commission presented to the member states and the anti-dumping and anti-subsidy committee a proposal to impose provisional anti-dumping measures on imports of frozen strawberries from china. the procedure for adoption by the commission is under way. in the other subsectors, imports from third countries either play a marginal role – for example as regards blackcurrants and sour cherries – or have decreased in the last years – as is the case with raspberries, for example. in the case of frozen raspberries, poland has increased its market share in the last few years, at the expense of imports from third countries. mr siekierski, you were asking about support schemes for grouping producers: these exist both in the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables and in rural development legislation. in its report on the situation in the sector of soft fruits and cherries, the commission has indicated that, in the framework of the reform of the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables, the commission may propose specific additional support for member states with low levels of organisation, and this is being looked at in the context of the preparation of the reform. mr siekierski, mr wojciechowski and others want to include soft fruits on the list of sensitive goods and bring them under the special safeguards clause and the entry price system. the special safeguards clause was introduced in the uruguay round for products that had tariffs. in the case of fruit and vegetables, this concerned products under the reference price system. it is no longer possible to increase the list of products covered by the special safeguards. similarly, the entry price system applies to products that were previously covered by the reference price system. there is no possibility of including soft fruits under the entry price system.
the agenda includes the joint debate on the report by kinga gál, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a fundamental rights agency of the european union (com ((0280/2005) - c6-0288/2005 - 2005/0124 ((cns)) (a6-0306/2006) and the report by magda kán kovács, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision authorising the european union agency for fundamental rights to carry out its activities in the areas referred to in title vi of the treaty on european union (com ((0280/2005) - c6-0288/2005 - c02-0125/2005) (cns)) (com (2005) 0286 - c02-0280/2006).
mr president, president borrell will be visiting athens next week as part of an official programme. i would ask the president to take a moment - if only half an hour - to fly across parliament where the parthenon is. there he will find that some of the finest creations of the greatest artist of all time, phaedia, are missing. the english have them. they're in the british museum. it is inconceivable that these works of the parthenon, which is one of the seven wonders of the world, should be outside the parthenon. i would therefore ask president borrell to visit him, to see this hideous sight and to advocate with us for the return of these sculptures that the british derisively call 'marble'. they're the parthenon sculptures. i repeat: one of the seven wonders of the world which has been 'carved out' has had parts removed from it which now adorn the british museum. i appeal to all civilized people to return the sculptures to the place where they were created. in the acropolis area! a place all civilized people should visit.
the balance of the union's policy towards the countries of south-eastern europe, with a focus on the western balkans, shows both positive and negative results. following criticism of the union's further enlargement strategy, which also covers the western balkans, there is a feeling that the european institutions' capacity to listen to the region has been reduced. i believe that in the context of parliamentary diplomacy we have a responsibility to make the union's strategy more coherent, transparent and effective, so that the southern dimension of european policy becomes more visible.
mr president, on 29 august the un secretary-general, mr kofi annan, presented to the members of the general assembly a report by the expert paulo sérgio pinheiro on violence against children. the report, mr president, describes in the darkest of colours the phenomena of violence and exploitation of children in the world and highlights the serious violations of children's rights. it is a text of awakening for the collective consciousness of humanity and activation for the defense of fundamental human principles and values. i believe, mr president, and i take advantage of the presence here of commissioner frattini, that this un text should be discussed in the institutions of the european union, and in particular in the european parliament, in conjunction with the recent communication from the european commission on a european strategy for the rights of the child. the european union, mr president, must take the lead in developing a common set of binding rules for all member states to protect the rights of children.
mr president, media reports have revealed the prosecution and possible dismissal of a uk airline employee for wearing a chain around his neck with a cross the size of a five-cent coin. we are talking about democracy, freedom and justice, principles which must be consolidated in the applicant countries as well. we want to give europeans, and indeed all the inhabitants of the world, the assurance that they will not be persecuted for the sake of freedom of expression - whether that freedom is represented by speech, or by the external environment - and much less for their religious beliefs. in my country, 80% of the population is baptized and carries the cross all their lives. how can we ask the acceding countries to respect religious freedom if we do not protect the possibility of such a simple religious expression? i hope the commissioner will take some action.
mr president, a report by an american strategic analysis and research company has revealed that greek cypriot and greek soldiers, who have been missing since the turkish invasion of northern cyprus, have been used as experimental animals in the industrial laboratories of the turkish army during the years 1984-88. given that turkey not only continues to occupy the northern part of cyprus, but also that it has never provided information and data on the missing, and given that the drama of the relatives of these missing has been going on for three decades, i would ask parliament to take the initiative and demand that turkey provide all the information it has on the missing - however harsh it may be - in order to put an end to this drama.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i rise to speak because i wish to express my dissatisfaction and concern about the future of europe. i have always considered that one of the main objectives of the european union was to protect children. the aim is to ensure their education, their health and, more generally, the development of their character and personality. i am very disappointed that the netherlands has founded a party of pedophiles. a party whose main objectives are to legalize sexual contact between adults and minors over the age of 12 and to legalize the possession of child pornography for personal use. in a europe which is ageing, in a europe where the institution of the family is constantly being weakened, in a europe where morals and customs and traditions are being relaxed, the founding of this party is like a bomb on the foundations of the european edifice. i ask everyone to stand up. i propose that the european parliament should ask the finnish presidency to abolish the paedophile party. if we want a european union with a future and a future, we must first and foremost protect our children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have just returned from a visit to lebanon with feelings of optimism about the new situation in the region but also with a greater awareness of the challenges that concern us all. life in the south is coming back. residents are returning to quickly repaired homes, their own or relatives' until restoration is done with the help of the government and donors, among whom hezbollah plays an important role. the presence of the lebanese army and unifil forces gives security and satisfaction to the civilians and it is important to say that it gives visibility and appreciation to the european union. the implementation of resolution 1701 does not appear to be threatened, but the balance is fragile and must be protected for the sake of peace in the wider region, as must the support of the lebanese government to enable it to make the appropriate reforms in the economy, society and political system. in addition to defending the rights of citizens, i would also like to stress the need to protect cultural treasures ... (the president interrupts)
the question is, mr president, commissioner, how effective the schengen agreement has been so far. did he stop the islamists in madrid? did it stop the islamist fanatics all over europe? did he stop them in london? so why apply it? when we can't guard europe. tell me, is there a coast guard in the aegean? here, you have not defined the borders of europe. two thousand people try to enter greece every day and as many in spain. so we make it easy for them. as soon as they enter greece, they enter italy, austria, germany, france. we are making it easier for them by withdrawing the internal borders. what do we get ? and we go to the second generation. what do we offer the citizens? echelon that monitors their phones, cameras that also monitor them, schengen that takes their personal data. we are therefore creating a democratic deficit without any benefit in return. i shall of course vote against this forced adaptation to the democratic oak.
mr president, schengen ii is not about reinventing the wheel, for better or for worse. the schengen area already exists in europe for freedom of movement and security. we owed solidarity to the new member states and we owed solidarity, which we are providing, given that the commission announces that the system will not be ready for several years. but with schengen ii we also had to ensure that fundamental rights would be better protected than with schengen i. thanks to the european parliament's amendments, schengen ii contains more detailed data protection rules, provides for community control and responsibility for the operation of the system, control by the european parliament, jurisdiction of the european court of justice, prohibits access to third countries, and provides for active control by the european supervisor of national data protection authorities and greater transparency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the protection of the environment. what do you mean, "clear evidence that someone has committed a serious crime"? we're talking about the possibility of police overreach. the commission will hopefully try to harmonize this in three years' time, but you must, commissioner frattini, fight it. finally, we have no data protection in the third pillar. the council promised parliament that it would do so, and it did not. are we kidding around? we are passing a measure here which, for the police and other authorities, concerns the sharing of private data. the council is refusing to introduce this data protection measure, but is pressing us to adopt this proposal. i am grateful to you, mr president, but you can be sure that if we do not have this framework decision immediately, parliament's voice will be heard much more loudly.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i think that the majority of speakers have mentioned the major problems facing the second generation schengen information system (sis ii), and a minority of them have mentioned the legal basis. i shall therefore speak about the legal basis and the major problems raised by the functionality of the system, but before that i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr coelho, once again for working closely with the european commission, and not just with the council, to reach a good compromise on the legal basis, which i will mention a little later. several of you have spoken of the delay in implementing the second generation system. as usual, i will be frank with you: i think that the game of always looking for the culprit instead of solving the problem is not helping. why would you do that? because the member states, and particularly those from which the speakers who have spoken here come, are very well aware of the reasons for such a delay. the member states have already examined the revision of the implementation deadlines on several occasions, which will be submitted for approval to the council in december. one of you mentioned 2009. i cannot guarantee final approval by the council in december, but the commission's proposal is not for 2009 but for june 2008 to have a second generation system in operation. as for the delays, i repeat, they are due to purely technical problems in connection with the operation of the sites. the central site, in strasbourg, where we are, has been delayed. but they are also linked to contractual procedures in several member states, particularly in the new member states. in addition, the member states almost unanimously, or at least by a very substantial majority, requested additional time to test the technical connections of the national systems to the central site. it was the member states who asked for three months' extension, not the council or the european commission. the council and the commission have committed themselves to reducing or even making up the delay. i can tell you that a working party, working in conjunction with the commission and the member states, has been set up to monitor the implementation of the revised plan which i proposed, which the member states have examined and which they will approve in december. we're evaluating some temporary solutions. the portuguese proposal, which has been called sis plus, is only a temporary solution to try to reduce the time and cannot in any way be an alternative to sis ii. i could also take into account, and i say this here in parliament, the financial impact of the delay on the new member states. i say that and i confirm it, but on one condition: that the applicant member states themselves do not fall behind in, for example, contractual procedures. and i can tell you, in all honesty, that to date, only slovenia would be technically able to meet the initial deadline of october 2007. a few words now on the legal basis. as regards the proposal before parliament, i can say, as mr coelho himself has rightly said, that it is a good result for the european union. the effectiveness of control by police authorities would be enhanced, resulting in more security at external borders, while maintaining an appropriate level of protection of personal data. i sincerely hope, as many of you do, that the council will finally follow up on the political commitment of the austrian and finnish presidencies, i mean the agreement on the proposal for a framework decision to integrate data protection into the third pillar in order to have a complete system encompassing security and protection of fundamental rights. parliament, the council and the commission have shown that they are able to work together to reach a balanced compromise. the new member states are rightly calling for the abolition of checks at their external borders. the fact that a real area of free movement for all citizens of the union has been secured in a relatively short time is one of the most visible results of the enlargement of the european union. finally, any delay due to the legal basis will affect this major political outcome for europe, which has been a priority objective in the accession treaty.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report i have had the honour of drawing up on behalf of the committee on women's rights is intended to help deepen our debate and political action on the issue of migration by introducing the female migration dimension. this is becoming increasingly important as in the enlarged european union there is a steady increase in women from different parts of the world who migrate either individually, as independent economic migrants, or as part of their families' movements, but also for other reasons, representing a proportion that approaches - because we never have clear statistics - 54% of all migrants. today we all realise that our goals of development and social cohesion are directly linked to the management of migration flows, to the exploitation and integration of migrants into our societies. the feminization of immigration, if i may use that expression, is therefore a new challenge which must be studied and taken into account in all our policies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the report makes reference to the problems faced by immigrant women. these problems are related to discrimination in the labour market and in education and, more specifically, in the recognition of qualifications and professional skills, and are problems that result in unemployment and poverty. it also refers to cases of human rights violations, such as cases of violence and sexual exploitation, which we have repeatedly discussed and condemned in the european parliament. we also want to shed light on the problems faced by women in some immigrant communities, where they are victims of cultural and religious stereotypes and are therefore marginalised. even worse are the cases of forced marriages and honor killings. the main thrust of our report and the resolution we are proposing is to protect the rights of immigrant women and to integrate them better into the labour market and into social life. this means, first of all, the application of the acquis communautaire on the elimination of discrimination, the prevention of trafficking victims, the provision of family reunification and the rights of women as accompanying members. the report recognises the right of member states to decide on the number and the rules under which they accept migrants on their territory. in this context of national legislation, we therefore support respect for women's rights, their family rights and, in particular, the rights of children, in accordance with international treaties and protocols. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we recognize that accession is a complex and two-way process. so alongside this framework of welcome and respect for the rights of women migrants, which we must implement with good coordination and the best use of all our policies, we must work seriously with the countries of origin and the migrant communities in our societies to prepare the proper integration of migrants and, above all, of women migrants, because they are the ones who know least about their rights, as well as the benefits and obligations that flow from these rights. these have to do with language, with our principles, our values, with career opportunities, with the possibilities of participating in their children's education system. the european union must not be allowed to continue to be a mere spectator, but must be a voice of the people, a voice of the people, a voice of the people. i would like to thank all the political groups whose participation has enriched my work and helped us to propose a text that is coherent, respects subsidiarity, the community and international legal systems and includes, with a bold and profound approach, the real problems and the real challenges.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report and her strong position on the environment committee's demands on life+. the key is to ensure sufficient resources for the natura 2000 programme. that is why i wholeheartedly support the request to add another 50 million euro to the life+ budget. if we leave the 50 million on the sidelines, with just a political commitment - as the council is asking for - we will have no clear guarantee. i also support the environment committee's request that 55% of life+ be allocated to nature and biodiversity, which is a key issue in the effort to achieve the european union's objective in this area. the additional 100 million euro agreed in the budgetary perspective is certainly worth committing at a rate higher than the 40% proposed by the council. if the percentage remains at 40%, this will in fact mean a proportional reduction in the relevant funding for biodiversity compared to the previous financial perspective and this is unacceptable. finally, i agree with the rapporteur who is opposed to the commission's proposal to allocate 80% of the resources to the member states, thus giving them a blank cheque. the resources of life+ are not to fill budgetary gaps in the member states, but to promote joint european projects. commissioner, you are well aware that in our common home the money often goes to payroll costs and not to protect the natura 2000 network. we want a strong european policy, we all in the european parliament want more europe for the protection of the environment. if the commission wants it, why does it not support it against the council?
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the proposal to transfer 80% of the supposedly insufficient funding for life+ to the member states would mean that all european added value would be lost and, above all, would give member states a blank mandate to pursue - possibly - national objectives. we therefore call for efficient and transparent management, under the control of the european commission, of major projects with european added value. finally, in the event of no agreement, i consider it particularly important to support the joint proposal which will allow the financing of activities which should be covered by this programme from 2007. i would like to congratulate mrs béguin on her very positive report.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank the members for their very positive contributions and for the acknowledgement that the initial proposal – adopted by the commission in september 2004, with the help of parliament – has been improved considerably. what we have to strive for is a balanced solution. in this respect, i will try to facilitate an agreement between the council and parliament. with regard to the amendments, i am aware of 31 amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and a further amendment introduced since last week. the late amendment, similar to what happened in the budget debate, encourages me to believe that parliament wishes to help find a solution to the funding gap that the late adoption of life+ will create. while the budget question will ultimately be solved by the budgetary authority, the commission will do all it can to facilitate an agreement that, with your support, will provide funds to dg environment throughout 2007. turning now to the 31 amendments on life+, i will divide them into four distinct blocks. firstly, on the delivery method, the commission cannot accept the group of amendments opposing delegated programme management. secondly, on allocation of funds, the budget, ring-fencing etc., parliament has tabled an amendment aiming at adding the whole eur 100 million extra to the life+ instrument. if parliament and the council were in agreement to allocate that amount to the life+ programme, i would welcome the opportunity to see the programme expanded. parliament also calls for at least 55% of life+ funds to be allocated to the nature and biodiversity component. the commission cannot accept this amendment, since it would reduce the flexibility needed by several member states to tackle other pressing environmental concerns. the 40% in the common position is a minimum and nothing prevents member states spending double that figure on nature and biodiversity if they so wish and can justify it. thirdly, with regard to comitology issues, the amendments seeking greater involvement by parliament during the various phases of programming and introducing the regulatory procedure with scrutiny would be acceptable in principle. lastly, with regard to a series of amendments seeking clarification, greater transparency, etc., on questions such as the application of the aarhus convention, cross-border projects, specific reference to the impact of climate change on biodiversity, the role of the commission in supporting integration, etc., my view is that these amendments could be acceptable to the commission in principle, subject to some drafting changes. i should like to repeat what i said earlier, namely that we should continue working together to find practical solutions, especially on the implementation method for life+. in addition, together we need to solve the 2007 funding gap. i am heartened by parliament’s good wishes in that respect. we need a funding instrument for the environment in order to spend our eur 2 billion budget. i am therefore willing to help find a practical compromise between the council and parliament on these issues and i am willing to help facilitate such an agreement.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the rapporteur, mr papadimoulis, for the excellent report they have produced. the commission proposal to recast the 2001 council decision on the establishment of a community civil protection mechanism has taken account of the request of both the european parliament and the council to strengthen the instruments and capabilities in the field of civil protection in europe. it aims to strengthen the mechanism with the experience gained from previous emergencies. it provides the basis for further developing cooperation in the field of civil protection by improving and strengthening existing work in this field, as well as launching new activities. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. in particular, the financing of equipment rental and transport rental costs. very often we are faced with situations where aid is available but there are no adequate means of transporting it to the disaster site. the result is that aid is either delayed or not at all. in emergencies affecting several european countries at the same time, such as forest fires in summer, floods in spring or even possible simultaneous terrorist threats across europe, member states may find it difficult to provide assistance to other member states because of their own needs. the commission has therefore proposed that a safety net be set up at community level so that we can rent the necessary transport equipment. the commission is of course aware that the european parliament understands the importance of the benefits to be derived from these reforms and expresses its gratitude for the support it has already given to the proposed new financial instrument. as the barnier report underlines, enhanced cooperation in the field of civil protection will result in better protection for both citizens of the european union and residents of third countries. it will ensure that the community as a whole can provide more coordinated and effective and more timely assistance to any country affected by major disasters. i should remind you that the proposal on the leasing of means of transport and equipment was part of the proposal for a new financial instrument on which parliament gave its opinion earlier this year. the negotiations which followed in the council proved to be very difficult. we therefore call on all members of the european parliament who want to see this proposal go ahead to do everything they can at national level to support it, otherwise we will not be able to achieve the enhanced cooperation in the field of protection policy that parliament has requested.
the rapporteur. mr president, in recent years we have experienced the tsunami, hurricane katrina, earthquakes in pakistan and indonesia, but also in the european union member states have often been confronted with major floods and storms, with forest fires, maritime disasters and industrial accidents. the impact of these tragic events is enormous not only on human lives but also on the economy. the citizens of the european union are therefore right to demand a more effective response, improving the european union's emergency response capacity is a priority for the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. among these is the recasting chosen by the commission, which is the least ambitious option, because it introduces a limited number of improvements to the council decision governing the civil protection mechanism. so could the commission tell me why it has chosen this less ambitious option, despite repeated declarations by the european council and resolutions by the european parliament for further strong development of the community's civil protection system? the main weaknesses i have identified in the commission's proposal for a restructuring concern, firstly, the transport of rescue teams and equipment. today each member state is responsible for organising the transport of its own civil protection assistance. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. in 2005 alone, in five emergency situations, member states were unable to send experts and equipment because they did not have the means to get aid to where it was needed. the commission, i think, needs to do more to tackle this problem. secondly, the development of a european rapid reaction capability. at present, community civil protection assistance is provided by the member states on a voluntary basis. this is not enough to create a european rapid reaction capability, as the european parliament is calling for. in its communication of 25 april 2005, the commission proposed the creation of dedicated 'stand by modules' which would be mobilised following a simple request from the competent european authority. i ask why the commission did not include its own proposal in the recast. the third problem is early warning. the european commission's ability to respond to natural disasters also depends on the existence of early warning systems, the new wording states that the monitoring and information centre based in brussels must be linked to the systems of the member states and international organisations. good, but not enough, because right after the earthquake that caused the tsunami, the governments learned, but the citizens never learned. an appropriate legal basis should therefore be established in the council decision to develop early warning systems under the mechanism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. other member states work continuously through the community mechanism, other member states prefer to work with the united nations, other member states work with both and other member states with neither. this fragmentation and lack of coordination is in complete contradiction to the ambitious declarations of the european council. as rapporteur, and together with the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups, we tabled amendments which were adopted almost unanimously by the committee on the environment. these, in the broadest sense, concern the provision of information to citizens, the integration of civil protection measures into educational programmes and advertising campaigns, land management and use to promote prevention, the definition of terms in accordance with the agreed international vocabulary, the inclusion of public health, the use of military means on an auxiliary and voluntary basis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. in january 2006, the president of the european commission and the president of the european council asked michel barnier to study the role of the european union in responding to crises. the result was a very detailed report with interesting suggestions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like the commissioner to tell me how the commission intends to use the barnier report. the price of not having a united and effective europe in crisis management is very high and that is why we must move forward more efficiently and with stronger coordination.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the council decision now before us, with our amendments, is the product of a long preparatory process and of the experience gained in recent years in dealing with natural and man-made disasters. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are therefore called upon today to strengthen and shield the union so that it can respond to this demand from citizens for effective intervention in the fields of prevention and rapid response to natural and man-made disasters. this is the manifestation of the practical solidarity between member states which will further strengthen the sense of belonging to a community and thus further strengthen the european consciousness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. an effective early warning and response system is based on the following four components: the identification and assessment of risks, their continuous monitoring, the warning and communication mechanism and, finally, the preparedness, i.e. the capacity to react and provide assistance. i would like to stress, as the rapporteur has done, that the amendments we have tabled concern issues such as the rapid alert system, intervention units from the participating states, guidelines on how to respond and inform citizens, best practices for dealing with situations and, finally, mutual consular assistance for the identification of contact points between member states. i would also like to say - and i think it should be accepted - that we should also pay particular attention to the public health sector because disasters are usually accompanied by risks to public health, whether they come from lack of food or water or from epidemics, and therefore this component should also be included in the proposal. finally, i would like to say that, as our rapporteur has said, the barnier report is an excellent report which must be taken into account, because otherwise it makes no sense why all this excellent work has been done. i think that together with our own proposal today we will have an effective instrument. i would like to conclude by thanking our rapporteur for his excellent work. i'm not going to let you get away with this.
mr president, the protection of european citizens from accidents and natural disasters is directly linked to their economic and social security. in recent years there has been a large increase in natural disasters, which has also led to a large increase in requests for assistance from the civil protection mechanism by the governments of the member states. civil protection is a complex system comprising prevention, intervention and, finally, rehabilitation. the overall remarkable suggestion by mr papadimoulis on the proposed recasting seems to me to have improved the council's proposal in such a way that it will strengthen the union's supporting and complementary actions when they are needed. i am, however, in favour of continuing training of the parties involved and consider that there is a need to increase public awareness, particularly in high-risk areas, and thereby to improve prevention and preparedness in these areas.
the debate in the european parliament and the resolutions tabled on the 50th anniversary of the counterrevolution in hungary are another organized attempt to falsify history, to intensify anti-communism. the celebrations of the representatives of capitalism, the presence of the secretary general of nato, the president of the commission and other imperialist leaders at the event in budapest, are the best testimony to the goals of the counterrevolution in hungary, the overthrow of the socialist system and the restoration of capitalism. the publication of official documents proving the active involvement of imperialists and the organized support of counterrevolutionary forces is the best response to those who distort the facts and call it a popular uprising. the common and identical cries of the people's party, the socialist party, the liberals and the greens for democracy and freedom attempt to sanctify capitalist barbarism and present it as a one-way street for the peoples. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the left forces are taking on great political responsibilities with their attitude. while they are aware of the subversive and aggressive role of imperialism in the former socialist countries, its murderous role towards all popular movements, they adopt imperialist propaganda in the name of 'objectivity'. they do not treat the facts as a class issue by giving an alibi to imperialism.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate the relevant parliamentary committees on their initiative to discuss today the subject of breast cancer, since it is a widespread and constantly increasing risk to the health of women and men, and at an increasingly young age. the effects on the organization of personal, family, social and productive life have already been noted. the community strategy is therefore called upon today to respond to the present circumstances, as well as to emerging trends and challenges for the health of citizens, and to use all possible means to achieve the significant reduction targets it has set. breast cancer is a disease in which proper screening plays a vital role, as the statistics we have and heard today show. but that means modern logistical infrastructure and skilled personnel. the europe against cancer programme, together with all the other possibilities of the structural funds, research programmes, etc., must respond to these challenges. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the member states, together with regional and local authorities, therefore have the duty to ensure that prevention, monitoring and treatment are available to all citizens in every corner of their territory. this is particularly important for the new member states, all the more so because we are immediately welcoming two more new members to our family. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of healthcare and to improve the quality of life of patients. many interesting initiatives have been developed in different countries and even networked at european level. we must support their work, especially in the new member states, and enable the exchange of good practice and added value for the health of citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i know that parliament as a whole shares my concern about the media programme, a programme which has proved its worth and has been with the european audiovisual sector since its inception. we are in the fourth generation of this programme and the fact that we have stuck to the basic structures, while innovating on specific elements that are linked to technological progress, shows that the programme has proven itself, that it is important, that it is unanimously recognised by the professionals and that it is essential for the future of our audiovisual creation and heritage. mr president, i welcome the constant support of the european parliament and in particular the constructive and unwavering support of its rapporteur, mrs ruth hieronymi. the recommendation for second reading marks a further step towards an early entry into force of the programme in 2007. parliament has done its job, now the final decisions have yet to be taken at council level. i hope that this will enable us, from next year onwards, without any clashes or creating a vacuum, to give the audiovisual industry the benefit of this aid which is indispensable for several reasons: firstly, for the cultural diversity of europe, secondly for the creation of european works and, finally, for the health of the content industry. i, for my part, will, as in the past, support the adoption of this decision, which will be a crucial step for the future of european audiovisual.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, today's proposal for the adoption by the european parliament of the common position on the decision to implement the programme to support the european audiovisual sector is the result of the personal perseverance and systematic work of many people, but in particular of the rapporteur, mrs ruth hieronymi, whom i, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, warmly congratulate, and of the initiator of the media programme, mrs reding. in cooperation with the european commission and the council, we have been able to finalise the text of the media 2007-2013 programme, which gives great added value to the development of the european audiovisual sector, which, in addition to its economic benefit and importance and its expected contribution to the growth of employment in the european union and the competitiveness of the audiovisual industries, also has great social and cultural value. the audiovisual sector has today enormous potential to combat gender stereotypes and to shape attitudes and behaviour in european societies based on traditions, unchanged values and respect for the dignity and uniqueness of the human person. thanks to the european parliament's contribution to strengthening the pre- and post-production stage of the majority of european audiovisual producers, the new media 2007 will continue to highlight their importance for the promotion of cultural dialogue, linguistic and cultural heritage. we also hope that, in the context of globalised competitiveness and the strategic objectives of lisbon, a european content industry will emerge that is respected, strong and diversified in order to exploit and make accessible european values, paying particular attention to the promotion of the less widely spoken languages. ... (interrupted by the president)
mr president, commissioner, today is a particularly important day for the committee on culture and education, as the reports by mrs hieronymi, mr graça moura, mrs gröner, mrs pack and mr takkula on the multiannual programmes for the audiovisual sector, culture, youth, education and european citizenship are about to be adopted in plenary. and congratulations to all our colleagues on the committee. despite the delay in approving the programmes due to the difficulties in reaching agreement on the budgetary perspective, we believe that the resources allocated, although insufficient, will allow these programmes to continue to offer their services. in particular, the media programme can play an important role in improving the competitiveness of the european film industry by financially supporting the development of audiovisual works, the training of professionals in the field and the promotion of the distribution and circulation of european works. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the development and promotion of european films is crucial for the preservation of cultural diversity and for economic growth and employment. unfortunately, the great wealth of linguistic and cultural diversity in europe is also a cause of the major structural problem of the audiovisual market. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a public place is a very good one. media 2007 should help to address the lack of cross-border circulation of european works.
mr president, in any country of the european union if you watch television and don't see the news, you think you are in an american state. american culture is the norm. this culture of violence, crime, rape and so on, that is so repulsive, that it is so easy to get into our homes. we must protect the european family from this culture, which does not suit us. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the tv is nitroglycerin in the hands of the one who controls it. he gives the food that he desires. and i'll mention euro news, which is funded by us, which a while ago called all italians mafia for something that happened in football. and euro news comes along and makes its own policy, saying "macedonia", against the european union calling this state forum, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is an important question if we are to succeed in a crucial issue, because it shapes opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i don't know the history of poland, just like a pole doesn't know the history of greece. we're a family now. knowing where each one's "spook" comes from. who we are and where we want to go. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the development of strong and adequate disaster prevention and response mechanisms is essential for the protection, assistance and relief of those affected by natural disasters and for the response to environmental disasters. in greece, the inadequacy of such mechanisms was again revealed in the recent floods in several areas. in particular, the greek governments' policy on disaster prevention and recovery (flood protection, seismic shielding) and relief for the victims is seriously flawed. a transnational civil protection mechanism can help to respond to natural disasters. it should not, however, be a substitute for the extension and strengthening of the member states' own mechanisms. similarly, civil protection mechanisms cannot function to conceal liability arising from the wilful causation of environmental disasters. the creation of mechanisms to deal with disasters caused by deliberate action or negligence (as proposed) gives even greater scope for unrewarding business action, with devastating effects on the environment and public health. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the action of recent years confirms that the struggle against "terrorism" aims at the suppression and manipulation of the popular movement - the class trade union movement. the 'prevention of terrorism' through monitoring mechanisms that are proposed to be strengthened leads to further restrictions of basic democratic rights.
the budget proposal, mr president, is entirely in the service of the european union's anti-people, reactionary policy. it is part of the new financial framework for 2007-13, cut and sewn into the measures to strengthen european capital. the 2007 budget promotes the anti-labour strategy of lisbon and the single market, while cutting resources for many regions, such as greece, reinforcing inequality and disparity with the prospect of not even being included in the poor cohesion fund. it is reducing funds for agriculture drastically, completing the implementation of the anti-agricultural revised cap, sending a new number of small and medium-sized farmers to the caucasus, and at the same time cutting hundreds of jobs. this is the modern spirit of the european union: intensification of work, mass unemployment, wages and starvation pensions. we have, of course, drastic cuts and further privatisation in public health and social security systems. however, resources for competitiveness, industrial policy innovation and entrepreneurship are increasing by 98%, as is funding for measures on employability, temporary work and class cooperation. it's called social dialogue. it is a class budget, unjust and condemned by the popular strata, because it brings inequality, injustice, poverty, more exploitation for the workers and more profits for capital. that's why he's a waste.
mr president, the european union is the most ambitious project in history. but this project is funded at a minimum of 1% of gdp. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's preliminary draft estimate was only 1%. the council has reduced it further to 0.98%, we have increased it to 1.04%. the council is doing everything it can to reduce the union's financing, the commission is not doing everything it can to defend it and so the european parliament is left alone in this role. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we rejected that proposal. the destruction of european farmers is not a policy of development or of european unification, it is simply a policy of ruin. a delicate political issue now: we have re-introduced the amendment on the restoration of christian churches in northern cyprus. the vote on this amendment will demonstrate europe's respect for its cultural heritage and will strengthen the implementation of european principles for peaceful coexistence between different religious and ethnic groups. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this cannot go on. we must discuss all the basic options with the council in advance before the decisions are taken which we are then called upon to finance. and to get our message across to the council, we cut the 2007 budget for the cfsp by 50%. i would like to say at this point, mr president, that mr seles was clearly right, but the minister would be wrong if she really believed that what we were doing was what she called 'logic of tactics'. i hope that the council will now reconsider its position.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. the council has instead adopted an accounting logic for reducing appropriations and the commission has adopted a fearful attitude. how will the lisbon strategy be implemented? how will the structural funds programmes be completed? with 425 million euros less ? how will the rural development policy be implemented? by the sham transfer from pillar one through the voluntary fluctuation mechanism, or the commitment to the reserve as proposed, of rural development resources until the commission decides and gives an explanation for the voluntary modulation? how will the union's role in its external action be strengthened, in the balkans, in palestine, in migration? with the cfsp cut by 50%? how will europe compete with america in research and competitiveness? we cannot set political priorities and not have the necessary budgetary instruments to implement them. we are becoming unreliable and this is undermining the future of the european union.
member of the commission. the proposed regulation on international roaming costs applies to all european member states, including the new member states. in october 2005, the commission created a website where all the prices were published, in the interests of transparency, including those in the new member states. these prices are to be reviewed one year on, in order to see how they have evolved in the different member states. as i have said, i am going to regulate with the help of the european parliament and the council, which are the legislators. in a few weeks’ time, then, the website will have been updated and you will be able to see whether overall prices in the different countries have gone down and what the trends have been during the last year.
member of the commission. the honourable member is correct: the greek electronic communications market has unfortunately suffered from a very long delay in the transposition of the regulatory framework. it should have been in force in 2003. it was only completed in greece in june 2006. we have seen very clearly that where the framework is not in place there is no competition. where there is no competition there is less investment. that is one of the problems in greece. on a more positive note, eu structural assistance in greece provides substantial co-funding for investments aimed at promoting speedier adoption of ict in greece and, in particular, for broadband internet in schools and public organisations in remote, island or mountainous areas. cohesion funds in greece also permit projects for the acquisition of informatics equipment in schools or public organisations in the regions, including remote, island or mountainous areas. as you also know, greece has started the implementation of a major project aimed at extending broadband access to those greek regions outside athens and thessaloniki which do not yet have that connection and, under normal commercial circumstances, would not get it. the greek government has also launched the diodos project, which established a high-capacity greek internet educational network through which a number of internet providers are offering advanced internet services to research, academic and education communities at prices that are expected to be 50% below current retail prices. you will also be aware that the commission is working very hard on bridging the digital divide. that is why the commission recently published a communication on bridging the broadband gap, which gives a strong commitment to achieve broadband for all europeans through policy, budget aid and regulatory instruments. included in that are the structural funds, but also – and this is new – the rural funds, in full respect of state aid rules. the communication proposes action that aims at strengthening current policies, national broadband strategies and reinforcing the exchange of best practices through a website. we believe it is very important for the regions to understand what other regions have done and to see what they might be able to copy or adapt to their specific needs. in that sense we hope that the many problems that persist in some regions, and especially in greece, can gradually be overcome.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her reply, which covered my point completely. i would also like to thank her very much for her visit to crete and to enisa, helping to solve many problems for the benefit of enisa. we thank you very much, both greece and crete, for this visit to heraklion.
member of the commission. besides being a beautiful island, crete is also a region striving to overcome the broadband gap it faces and i know that the honourable member is helping to pursue that goal in his capacity as a representative of crete. any help we can give, of course, must come through the greek government, because, in the case of structural or rural development funds, it is the government which must take the initiative. the commission is willing to provide help, so that the large gap which still exists in the non-urban areas of greece can be narrowed.
member of the commission. it is clear that there are many techniques and technologies that can bridge the broadband gap. the commission has always been very consistent in saying that we need technological neutrality. we cannot favour one technology over another and sometimes a mix of technologies is the right approach. fibre is not always the answer; sometimes satellites can be more efficient. in the nordic states, for example, where there are a lot of geographical problems and problems of distance, this mix of technologies has provided a solution. i know from the statistics for schools with broadband internet access that ireland is not doing wonderfully well. that is astonishing, because i know that education on the new technologies in ireland is very advanced. i therefore hope that the broadband gap in ireland can be filled and that in future all schools will be able to reach the world through the new technologies.
member of the commission. i can give a positive answer to both questions. the first answer is very clear. i will not permit regulatory holidays, not even in big countries, because regulatory holidays are against the interests of our citizens who only have access to a single provider and no competition, which will lead to high prices and is not in the interest of the industry in general. so i will fight regulatory holidays. the second answer is also yes. i will be in athens next week at the world internet governance conference. i will meet there with parliamentarians, and i applaud the fact that the european parliament is sending a delegation to that very important conference, because the voice of the people of europe has to be heard there.
member of the commission. my answer to the honourable member is that, according to information from the registry, the number of applications submitted during the sunrise period was 346 218, of which 181 306 were filed during the first phase and 164 912 during the second. the current rate of rejection for applications from ireland is 46%, compared to an overall eu rejection rate of 34%. the complete table with a breakdown of all applications per prior right and country of applicant can be found on the registry’s website. the kind of documentary evidence to be provided by an applicant depends on the national law of the member state in which the prior right is established. there are huge differences between the legal systems of the member states, which are reflected in the more or less complicated means needed to prove the existence of a prior right. this results in a higher or lower rate of rejection of applications in certain countries, such as ireland. as to the question of whether the registry provided irish registrars with the necessary means to comply fully with the application process, the commission is not aware of any specific discrimination in this respect. from october 2005 – that is, two months before the launch of the sunrise period – the registry published on its website and in all the official languages a detailed description of all technical and administrative measures concerning the registration procedures. this information, by the way, is still available online to any interested party. during that same period, the registry also set up a call centre, where applicants could obtain quick responses to their questions in 20 official languages. as to the alternative dispute resolution procedure, its purpose is promptly to resolve disputes between domain name holders on matters such as cyber-squatting or intellectual property rights, as well as in relation to individual decisions by the registry. should an irish applicant consider that he or she falls within either of these two categories, the commission is of the opinion that the alternative dispute resolution procedure is indeed a fair method for remedying the problem. in conclusion, the commission considers that the information made available by the public registry is sufficient for applicants and for registrars to proceed with the registration of domain names during the registration period and afterwards.
member of the commission. according to the legal framework established for the dot.eu registry, the commission is not responsible for deciding on the interpretation of national law in connection with the validation of prior rights. that mission has been assigned to the validation agent selected by the registry, pricewaterhouse coopers. that is one point. the second point is that the decision was also taken, in collaboration with the european parliament, to be respectful of national law in that sense; and because there are huge differences between national laws, i would not like to say that one law is better than the other. national law is linked to national habits, to the cultural diversity of our countries, so it is up to the national governments to change this law or to leave it as it is.
member of the commission. fair trade has made enormous progress in getting labelled products onto supermarket shelves and into mainstream buying habits and practices. the same cannot yet be claimed for crafts and garments. the commission will consider, as part of the follow-up to parliament’s report, whether there is scope for action in this area. when i said in parliament in july that ‘what is required to tackle poverty and to enhance development is a fair and coherent policy framework’, this was not limited to fair trade – though i acknowledged the helpful role that the report on fair trade and development would play. so whilst the commission is considering how to capitalise further on the role of the fair trade movement, there are a number of other wider actions that it can undertake. in cooperation with developing countries, we can promote decent work and international labour standards, as well as the interaction between decent work and other policies. the new thematic programme on investing in people, which comprises awareness-raising, training, information-sharing and the development of a set of indicators to monitor progress, will be an important tool. the close link between decent work and poverty reduction is increasingly well understood in the eu. in the ‘european consensus on development’ – a document published in 2005 – employment and social cohesion are recognised as one of the nine areas of community action. employment, decent work and social cohesion are also central in the eu-africa strategy. in may 2006, the commission adopted a communication on decent work for all, which will be presented at the commission conference on decent work and globalisation in december, where the issues will be tackled in a comprehensive framework. we are also contributing to the adoption of international norms and standards for all products, including textiles, through ongoing trade-related activities at bilateral and regional level. one example is a quality support programme in bangladesh, which focuses on the improvement of the quality standards, metrology and accreditation systems in the country to help national laboratories ensure regional and multilateral recognition and acceptability of the conformity assessment certificates. the bangladesh standards and testing institute will also be strengthened in its basic capacity as a standards-setting body and in the area of metrology. the programme will help to enable bangladesh to address multilateral requirements, as well as to increase the competitiveness of its export industry. the project aims to create public-private partnerships and promote in particular awareness of quality and environmental managements systems and social standards – iso 14000 and sa 8000 certified companies have increased in number – as well as strengthening the consumer association, through which pressure for change and control will be built up.
member of the commission. i sympathise with what the honourable member is suggesting. i think that consumer information, consumer power in this context, is indeed the key. fair trade relies on consumers who have heard about the difficulties faced by poor producers and want to do something about it. we can help mainly by helping consumers to be clear about what is on offer, but we are looking for opportunities to support the fair trade movement when it comes up with targeted requests. i look forward to considering those as we reflect on what further action to take to support the fair trade movement in the weeks and months ahead.
member of the commission. that is an intriguing question, one which certainly goes far wider than, and indeed probably almost entirely steps outside, the scope of the original question put to me. nonetheless it is fascinating. i believe that the best way of improving, strengthening, deepening, making more satisfactory the energy demand and supply relationship between europe and russia is, first of all, to press russia to adopt other, more transparent policies of free transit that are governed by global trade rules. i see no reason why energy goods should not be subject to global trade rules like any other good. but i also believe that the best way to strengthen the energy relationship between russia and the eu is by anchoring that energy relationship in a wider set of trade negotiations and agreements, the object of which would be to bring about integration of the russian and european economies governed by fair and transparent market rules and agreed norms and standards. it is in that context that i look forward to pursuing this subject as part of the wider trade negotiations that i hope will open up following russia’s accession to the wto.
member of the commission. i think the honourable member has now volunteered to return to this chamber and take part in our debate, at about midnight or some time after midnight, on the muscardini report of this parliament, which concerns trade defence instruments. i certainly look forward to seeing him early tomorrow morning during the course of that debate. unfortunately he is not on the list, so he will no doubt want to be there to listen and follow the debate so that he can take the issues forward in other ways. my short answer to his question is that our job in the commission is to uphold the rules, whether they be the rules of the wto or our own eu laws. we should do so objectively, transparently; but, as i have said on previous occasions, it is my strong view that those of us who believe in free trade should, wherever necessary, stand up for fair trade; and that approach will be reflected in the green paper which will review the use of trade defence instruments in the community and which will be published in the next few months. i look forward to engaging with him and hearing his views and contribution to the debate surrounding that green paper.
member of the commission. on 5 september 2006, i gave a full and comprehensive statement to parliament on the state of play of the doha development agenda. i am sorry to say that no major progress has been achieved since then; the negotiations remain suspended. however, it is important to note that since then, be it at the g-20 meeting in rio, which i attended, or the cairns group meeting in australia, where i was represented – both in september – all key players in the talks have reiterated their commitment to the round and their willingness to resume negotiations as soon as the political circumstances allow. however, it will take more than that to get the dda back on track. all sides will have to show flexibility and realism and make offers that represent real efforts in all areas of the negotiations. there is a narrow window of opportunity for resuming the talks between the united states mid-term elections on 7 november and early in the spring of 2007, when the us congress starts working on a new farm bill. i visited washington at the end of september to explore the us position on the dda, to probe us congressional politics on the subject and to explain our position. i met with policymakers in the administration, with a number of key law-makers on the hill, and with constituencies like the national farm bureau and the national association of manufacturers. the political situation in the united states is difficult. however, i was encouraged by my contacts with the administration, where i sensed a genuine willingness to conclude the round during president bush’s tenure, although this will require the use of considerable political capital, even to get congressional extension of the president’s trade promotion authority. so in the coming weeks our strategy must be to clarify the political conditions for renewing the talks and prepare the ground for movement – short of new offers. our sights also remain firmly set on preserving the development issues, at this stage in the context of the single undertaking. if the dda fails, or if the suspension is extended for too long a period of time, my firm judgement is that we run serious economic and political risks. there remains a lot on offer in the dda in terms of agricultural subsidy reduction, tariff reductions for agricultural and industrial products, improved rules and development; and hence a great deal to lose if the talks fail. we should not underestimate the broader systemic implications of failure for the multilateral system at large. the dda should therefore remain our main focus of attention – as it will – and the eu is willing and prepared to go back to the wto negotiating table as soon as realistically possible.
member of the commission. i do not accept that point of view, because i believe that we have a clear obligation, for objective reasons and because it was in the original doha mandate, to bring about a negotiated and agreed restructuring of agricultural trade. we are obliged to do that because reform of agriculture has lagged behind the progressive changes that have swept through the rest of the international trading system, with that benign and beneficial impact on industrial tariffs. but in the case of agriculture you have, exceptionally, a system of agricultural support and in some cases export subsidies which has been very trade-distorting. as a result of our reforms in europe we are curing ourselves of the trade-distorting impact of our agricultural support mechanisms. that is not the case, notably, in the united states. i believe it is important that we do not say goodbye to this round without exhausting every possibility of bringing about the progressive reform in agricultural support and trade that will be of great benefit to developing countries.
member of the commission. i do not think it is a threat, but i acknowledge the risk of a diversion of energy and negotiating capacity. there are always choices to be made by different countries and negotiators as to what form of negotiation they prioritise – the multilateral or the bilateral. but i am entirely satisfied that, given the long-term nature of the negotiations we are entering into and the clear sequencing of the initiatives we intend to take, there are no circumstances in which i would permit our own negotiating effort and commitment to the wto to be diminished or jeopardised by any pursuit of bilateral free trade agreements.
mr president, i would like to make a comment and a question. the persistence of third-party trading partners in agricultural negotiations is still surprising, given the small volume of agricultural trade flows in world trade. do you think, commissioner, that the emerging economies are really prepared to contribute to this round of negotiations, with substantial commitments on industrial products and services, or are they simply looking forward to unilateral disarmament by the developed countries?
mr president, congratulating the rapporteur, mrs muscardini, and thanking the commissioner for his well-founded intervention, i should like to say at the outset that maintaining and strengthening the european union's competitiveness in the new international environment requires, first, increased european access to third country markets and, secondly, effective protection against unfair trading practices by our partners. the community has been self-deprecating - it has consistently remained a moderate user of trade defence instruments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade defence policy is not undermined by the continuing increase in trade defence measures. the union is - and must remain - a market open to international competition. we are opposed to protectionism. we are also opposed to the distortion of competition, to the pursuit of competitive advantages by our partners based on opaque practices in breach of international trade rules. the union's unilateral disarmament is not in question. commercial "pacifism" only works when it is applied by all parties. there is no doubt that there is an increased use of trade defence measures to the detriment of the community. the commission should therefore closely monitor and ensure the withdrawal of abusive and unlawful measures, either through consultations or through recourse to the wto jurisdictions where necessary. there is also a comparatively large number of trade defence measures against european agricultural products. it is therefore the commission's responsibility to ensure that the radical reforms of the cap are taken sufficiently into account by our trading partners when they trigger anti-subsidy measures.
mr president, i think we are still going in the wrong direction. what are we fighting russia for? and this last conference, it was a war against russia. that's what all the headlines say. he wants america to play its game and he's making us play ours. but we are pushing russia to create a sino-russian axis and thus become the sandwich between america, russia and china. what's the reason? what difference does it make ? are we repeating the historical mistakes we made 200 years ago? so why should we be messing with russia? what do we have to part with? as for the human rights i hear, let's not kid ourselves. we turned a blind eye to the chechen issue because we wanted russia to turn a blind eye to israel and palestine. that's what counterspeak is. so can we shape a new policy of detachment from the american? i heard someone talking about dwarves ruling europe. finally, the dwarves will at least lift this height. we cannot be led by the americans down a path which will only bring difficulties to europe. let's get this straight.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the informal council summit is a sign of the intensification of international competition with a single european union strategy, but also of the contradictions between the member states over control of energy sources and transport modes and new woes for the peoples. the council's guidelines include action at all three levels: economic, political and military, in order to penetrate the eu monopolies and secure a strategic agreement with russia, but also to obtain a greater share of the spoils from the exploitation of natural resources in third countries. the european investment bank is called upon to increase its blackmail of third countries in the name of energy security, in order to force them to submit to the burdensome conditions imposed by monopolies for the control of energy sources. mr solana announced that 200 new nuclear power plants would be built over the next 20 years, with the aim of both the european union taking the lead in selling and operating these plants, and maintaining the uranium enrichment monopoly, revealing the real causes of imperialist aggression for control ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, today we are supposed to be talking about the lahti results. what results ? the european council also called on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the threat of nuclear proliferation. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union. and in the end, they managed to get russia to turn its back on them, on both their energy and humanitarian demands. the results were even more disappointing on the great issue of immigration. we must, the prime ministers have told us, focus on better border security. that's great. then why did they cut frontex's budget? but above all, the longer they insist on treating immigration as a police phenomenon for repression, the more they will undermine our future. to tackle illegal immigration and inhumane trafficking in human beings, a legal immigration framework is needed first. they're fighting amongst themselves and refusing to institutionalize it. we need a serious foreign policy and a policy of economic development and pacification. they can't carve it. and it needs a bold policy of integration and equal treatment of immigrants. they refuse to design it.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the first messages from the council are positive, as are those from parliament. what i would like to stress, mr vanhanen and mr barroso, is that we need a new and innovative tool that successfully combines the triad of education, research and innovation. we need a steam engine to transform research into innovative products and services. but we do not need an institution which will overturn the long-standing university tradition of europe, but which will respect it and make the most of it. it is therefore very important to know what our universities, research centres and businesses think before we make our decisions on this new institute. many bodies have already made their views known. at first glance, it seems that the messages we receive are often contradictory on some important issues. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a first approach to the proposed regulation leaves a number of questions open on critical issues such as: how to secure sustainable funding for the eit? how do we convince private investors to invest in a newly invented scheme? how can we ensure the effective participation of universities, convincing them that the eit will not conflict with and weaken their own actions? how can we convince them that research activities will not be fragmented and lead to the opposite of the desired result? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, the presidency also takes note of parliament’s interest in extending the scope of the european order for payment procedure to claimants and defendants resident in a european economic area member country. however, also taking into account the negotiations in the council, it appears to be impossible to change the definition of cross-border cases in the text of the regulation at this stage. the presidency is available to look more closely into the effects of the regulation for parties domiciled in states of the european economic area.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, there is hardly any need to underline the importance of the legislative proposals for the second generation schengen information system. the sis ii system is a central tool for law enforcement authorities and at the same time makes it possible to expand the schengen area and abolish controls at internal borders. for the first time in the history of the european union, we are creating a legislative basis for a massive information system in codecision with the european parliament. the presidency has, together with the european parliament’s rapporteur, mr coelho, prepared a compromise that it is hoped will be acceptable to all parties at first reading. we thank mr coelho and his team for their cooperation. the council’s position on the legislative package on sis ii was submitted to the president of parliament in early october. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs voted on its position on 5 october. it did not approve the addition proposed by the council concerning authorities’ access to the system. according to the council’s position, all authorities that enter data in the sis ii system should also have access to that system. this would ensure full and indispensable cooperation between all authorities involved in the protection of the area of freedom, security and justice. the addition concerning access by authorities was proposed at a very late stage in the negotiations. therefore, it is fully understandable that the committee on civil liberties felt that it could not approve the addition without an opportunity to examine the issue in more detail. the presidency followed the plenary discussion on this issue on monday with great interest. i hope that the european parliament can approve the proposed text today. in the next few weeks the council will discuss the outcome of the plenary vote by parliament. i believe that we can reach a solution with parliament at first reading. i want to emphasise that we are now very close to a solution for this important legislative matter.
the time for voting is over.
mr. dillen, one second please. i am sure you would not want to label your colleagues, the members of the european parliament, as fools. i would ask you to correct or clarify what you have said.
in writing. the report, as agreed by the political representatives of capital (people's party, social democrats, liberals), establishes as a "community acquis" the creation of a gigantic monitoring mechanism and a dossier of every european or foreign citizen inside or outside the eu's borders. the sis ii system removes any guarantee of protection of citizens' personal data, since it gives the right to record personal data, including biometric data (photographs, fingerprints, physical characteristics) and to subject to discrete surveillance any person who, in the arbitrary and uncontrolled judgment of the repressive mechanisms, is suspected of committing criminal acts or - based on intelligence information - threatens national security! these personal data may be kept indefinitely at the discretion of the law enforcement authorities, and in addition to the police and judicial authorities, the secret services, europol and eurojust have access to them, and may even transmit them to third countries or organisations (such as the cia, etc.). the eu's notorious area of freedom and security is now revealing its repugnant and nightmarish form as a place of strangulation of basic human rights and fundamental freedoms, unchecked action of repression mechanisms to protect the power of the eu monopolies from the resistance of the peoples, the workers and the popular movement.
we are here to listen to you because an explanation of vote is an opportunity for a member to explain something he cannot explain with a ‘yes’ or a ‘no’. your point is something for the record and not really for the other members. it is understandable, but we are here to listen, as long as there are explanations of vote.
i would like to congratulate you on this initiative, mr president, mr commissioner. we note with concern that the basel convention is violated at least 10 times a year, leading to toxic waste in african countries. the recent probokoala incident has raised awareness in the european union. the union must move forward with the criminalisation of illegal practices in the trafficking of toxic waste. at the same time, it should draw the attention of the european ports agency to the strict application of the regulations governing the transport of toxic waste by its members. the need for public information, internal consultation and information between the services concerned, the operation of the register of qualitative and quantitative data and the quantities of waste traded and generated should be emphasized. these must be transparent and accessible to all concerned, in order to prevent the tendency of african economies to specialise in the industrial management of various toxic wastes.
madam president, i would also like to congratulate my colleague, mrs véronique de keyser, on her very important report. i believe, commissioner, minister, that in the light of the new geopolitical reality emerging in the middle east, the european union must formulate its own autonomous strategy. syria is a reality and its role continues to be crucial to regional stability and security. europe must talk to her. to enter into a coordinated institutional and political dialogue with the damascus regime. i agree with everything in the report. with what the colleagues said. but no one answered the question of how we would influence the change in syrian behavior. how will we contribute to the democratization process? and that, really, no one answered. i believe, commissioner, minister, that without the mechanisms of the association agreement and political dialogue, the european union's capacity to contribute to the democratization of syria will be nil. i therefore believe that the european union should not delay in concluding the agreement. for those who advocate the isolation of syria, sanctions, or even regime change, the civil war in iraq is the answer to their illusions.
president of the council. mr president, in reply to your question, the council would first of all like to recall that, in accordance with article 18 (1) of the treaty establishing the european community, every citizen of the union has the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states, subject to the restrictions provided for in this treaty or in the provisions adopted for its application. as the honourable member will be aware, the commission, as guardian of the treaty, has the duty to ensure that the provisions of the treaty and the provisions and orders issued by the institutions pursuant to it are respected. the question put by the honourable member should therefore be addressed to the commission. in july this year, the commission published a communication on the eu strategy on children's rights, which aims to promote and protect children's rights effectively in the context of the european union's internal and external policies and to support member states' actions in this area. the actual policy on children and families is part of the decision-making process at national level.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. and because in the council all the member states must see what the situation is and what the problems are of families travelling with children, that is why i put the question to the council, knowing both the treaties and the new commission communication.
mr president, on behalf of the socialist group, we fully support the rapporteur, mr goepel, in his proposal to postpone the debate and vote until the november partsession.
in writing. the kke meps refused to take part in the vote on the 50th anniversary of the counter-revolutionary events in hungary that turned into anti-communist hysteria. the final resolution, signed and supported jointly by the ppe, the neoliberals and the other groups other than the gue, adopts the anti-communist memorandum withdrawn by the council of europe and returns it to the european parliament. they characterise as popular revolutions and democratic movements events supported or organized by imperialism to overthrow socialist regimes. all those who have fought fiercely against socialism are considered resistance fighters and democrats. it is now clear that the political forces supporting the eu are those which morally and politically advocate the revival of fascism in the baltic and other countries, and encourage and take the lead in banning the activities of communists, as in the czech republic and other countries before. the call by the servants of capitalist barbarity in paragraph 3 of the despicable resolution to the 'democratic community', "...to unequivocally reject the oppressive and undemocratic communist ideology"... expresses their fear of it... we want to remind those who dream of the final victory of the barbaric exploitative capitalist system that the communist ideology has given birth to the greatest social revolutions and will give birth to even greater ones, because it is precisely fighting for a society free from the exploitation of man by man
in writing. the resolution of the european parliament on the situation in south ossetia expresses the eu's imperialist plans in the region. it is well known that georgia is already one step away from joining nato, and the saakashvili government, which is subservient to the imperialists, has already agreed to the establishment of american bases on its territory. behind the pharismatic declarations of respect for georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, the condemnation of the independence movements of abkhazia and south ossetia, are the eu's attempts to encircle and exert pressure on russia, with its eyes on the russian market, especially the energy market, in the context of inter-imperialist rivalries and contradictions. the eu is not only defending the territorial integrity of georgia, but it could also undermine it by supporting separatist movements, which it condemns today, if the strategic interests of the regional monopolies demand it. the peoples of the region have a rich experience of the community's interventionist policy, with the incitement and support of all kinds of 'color revolutions', the policy of the 'carrot and stick' exchange. that's why they need to draw their own conclusions. to stand up, resist and overthrow the policy of the eu and the other imperialist powers and governments that serve them.
in writing. the council and commission statements and the european parliament resolution constitute a blatant and open attack on syria, calling on it to repent of its policies and submit to imperialism. the debate on the conclusion of a euro-mediterranean association agreement between the eu and syria is being used to threaten the eu's position against the war in iraq, its solidarity with the palestinian and lebanese peoples and its refusal to align itself with imperialist plans. the eu's escalating aggressive policy reveals the character of un resolution 1701 by foreshadowing the role that the military occupation forces of eu member states will play in the region. the report is the european version of the american propaganda targeting syria and calling it an axis of evil. we are opposed to the report in solidarity with the people of syria and the middle east, who are being targeted by the american and european imperialists. the eu, the us and nato are jointly promoting the implementation of the nato 'middle east' plan, which aims to enslave countries and peoples. we consider it politically unacceptable that this report should be supported by political forces which are called leftists, because they are aligning themselves with the imperialist policy of the eu and the usa, giving an alibi for starting new wars.
in writing. public-private partnerships are the gateway to private capital penetration and concession in the public service sector. it is the main way in which european capital is able to appropriate public infrastructure and services, bypassing the obstacles and problems it encounters. it is also the means to buy consciences, to disorient the popular movement, to limit support for the public sector, with a gradual privatization and commercialization of services of general interest, especially at the level of the public utilities. the aim is to increase the profits of big capital and intensify exploitation . the report's attempts to make the use of public service contracts conditional and to ensure democratic control over them are nothing but an alibi and a wish list which ultimately facilitates the generalized and rapid proliferation of the transfer of services under the control of private capital with harmful consequences for workers, consequences which are also covered up in the report itself. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is important that the management and allocation of public wealth is accompanied by the attack on the rights of workers to make capital profitable. we vote against the report and call on the people to oppose the all-out attack of capital and the policy of the eu .
in writing. what was excluded from the first vote on the bolkestein directive is reinstated by the european commission's guidelines on the application of directive 96/71 on the posting of workers, in order to complete the crime against the working class. the commission, by using the case law of the court of justice, is also overturning the inadequate and limited protection rules which workers have acquired, and is abolishing all controls on posted workers by the host state, undermining the social security systems and the social rights of workers in general. the political voices of european capital (european people's party, social democrats and liberals) who in february 2006 voted in favour of the bolkestein directive in the european parliament, with a new unacceptable compromise in the report on the commission communication, are chanting gray recommendations, facilitating the eu's manipulations to manipulate the labour movement. they offer yet another service to the monopoly groups' quest to increase their profits through the over-exploitation of the working class. the escalation of the struggle of the working class, of the workers in general, against the whole of the anti-people policy of the eu is an imperative necessity and the only way to meet the modern needs of the working people's family.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the reassuring messages and answers given by the european central bank and the commission on the cases of counterfeiting of the euro, the phenomenon continues to concern the administrative authorities and europol. just last week we had two cases of particular concern. the first concerns the dismantling of a colombian counterfeiting ring. the loot, in counterfeit 50 and 100 euro notes, was worth a total of 6 million euro, and was destined for spain and other european union countries. in the same week in germany, hundreds of thousands of €5 and €20 banknotes were dissolved in water, prompting the german authorities to look for the cause, while the german people longed for the strong and independent mark. what is wrong with the euro? how safe are citizens when they are themselves at risk of being brought to trial, as has been the case in several countries, on suspicion of counterfeiting or dealing in counterfeit notes? the european central bank will be deaf until when? or is it only concerned, mr president, with when he will raise interest rates again, with the consumer's noose?
mr president, one of the gains of democracy is university asylum, which, of course, does not develop in the same way in all countries. in greece, suddenly, university sanctuary means that the anarchists, the pockets of terrorism, which we so much chase in this room, create hotbeds and use the university as a place to build molotov cocktails to attack shops and the surrounding residents. it's a terrible problem facing my country, which is unable to find a solution. he can't fight them. and here's the big problem. can we legislate uniformly in all the countries of europe for the same respect for asylum? because this situation has been reversed. and it's not just greece. in other capitals of europe we have the same problem: state against state, anarchists in asylum. respect for asylum, but do not allow it, mr president, to become a haven, a stronghold for anarchists, for all those who, in hoods, rape, blackmail and plunder the lives of citizens. finally, we must legislate for the good of universities, for the good of students, but not for the extremists or some extremists who are attacking the state.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. so we have to be very careful when we refer to university asylum, which is a fundamental achievement for the student and student movement in our country. the revolt of the students of the polytechnic is - after 33 years - a shining example of the struggle of the peoples for democracy within the universities, but also the need to make radical changes at this level. the european parliament is not the only one to have a problem with the european parliament, and it is not the only one to have a problem with the european parliament.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. the middle ages is a long historical period during which the foundations of europe's present form were laid and the processes of combining greco-roman culture with christianity took place. in the middle ages, however, industrial relations were characterized by an unbroken link with the "master", the "boss", the employer and the workplace, as well as by organization in trade unions, impenetrable statutes, and the establishment of monopolies. today, however, liberal europe, united, has secured freedom of movement, mobility and is moving towards the liberalisation of services, eliminating practices that have plagued the inhabitants of europe in various historical periods such as the middle ages.
i have been following the speakers for some time, mr president, and in particular the commissioner responsible, mr almunia, as they try to sanctify the euro. but is that how it is ? the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to bring about a change in the way in which the community is run. the euro is growing in strength and we are all happy about that. the number of people living below the poverty line is also increasing. the 500 million in the eu-27 have 100 million people living below the poverty line. that is, they can only eat meat once every 15 days, they cannot buy clothes for their children, they cannot change cars before 15 years. so what is the euro to them? i remind you that it started with an imperium. we do not want the one and two euro notes. but 75% of daily transactions are below the 5 euro threshold. we are glad that the euro is rising. it went from 0.87 cents to 1.30 cents on the dollar. what does that mean ? no country without a branded product can sell to america or other countries. germany may well sell mercedes because it is one mercedes. but how can my country, which has no branded product, sell to america - the big market - when the same product in the next country outside the emu is three times cheaper? how can a tourist come to greece or, mr almunia, an american tourist come to spain when it is impossible to monitor the rise of the euro? so we can't see these? can't we deal with all of this? it is a huge problem and you have a huge responsibility, you in the commission, and especially you personally, mr almunia.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i am pleased to open this joint discussion on the thematic strategy for the protection and conservation of the marine environment and on the proposed directive on marine strategy. i would like to thank both rapporteurs, mrs lienemann for the proposed directive on the marine strategy and mr kuskissi for the thematic strategy, and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for their efforts. i would also like to thank the committee on fisheries and in particular mr gklavakis for his very constructive approach to this important subject. seas and oceans cover 71% of the earth's surface and account for 90% of the biosphere. europe's sea waters cover 3 million square kilometres, the same area as the continent. 50% of europe's territory is covered by the sea. marine ecosystems play a key role in climate and weather. however, the state of the marine environment in the european union is deteriorating rapidly. in some areas, we can go so far that there's no going back. the marine ecology of the baltic sea is strongly influenced by nutrient supply. fish stocks are in poor condition all over europe. the north-east atlantic is one of the most maritime-intensive areas in the world, with all the associated risks and impacts. the mediterranean is highly threatened by uncontrolled coastal development. however, existing measures and efforts, whether at international, national or eu level, are far from sufficient to change the situation. most measures developed at eu level are not designed to protect the marine environment as such and therefore have limited impact. measures adopted at international level have proved to be very difficult to implement and enforce because they are not binding. a healthy marine environment is essential to life as such and to the quality of our lives. it is also a prerequisite for the full exploitation of the economic potential of the oceans and seas, and a dynamic marine economy can only thrive if there is a healthy marine environment. the maritime strategy will therefore make a significant contribution to the growth and employment requirements of the lisbon strategy. for these reasons, it is clear that the protection of the marine environment can no longer and must not be a by-product of other policies. an integrated strategy is needed at eu level to take account of all pressures and impacts on the marine environment. and that is what the marine thematic strategy is trying to achieve. it consists of a draft directive on a marine strategy and a communication explaining the current situation, taking into account the eu's environmental footprint in the marine environment in a broader sense and explaining why the eu needs to act. the maritime strategy needs to be seen in the wider context of the development of the new eu maritime policy. the commission's green paper, adopted in june this year, aims to achieve a europe with a dynamic maritime economy that is compatible with the marine environment. the marine strategy is a pillar of future maritime policy in the environmental field. it will focus on activities needed to protect marine ecosystems, on which sustainable wealth, productivity and employment, and more broadly, human wealth derived from the oceans and seas, depend. the proposed marine strategy directive aims to achieve 'good environmental status' of the eu marine environment by 2021, in other words to restore the ecological health of our seas over the next 15 years. this timeline will coincide with the first review of river basin management plans under the eu water framework directive, allowing synergies in the further implementation of both directives. the joint implementation of the eu water framework directive and the marine strategy directive will thus link the protection of the marine and inland water environment. based on geographical and environmental criteria, the directive establishes european marine regions and identifies sub-regions, if any, as the management units for implementation. no action will be taken at eu level with regard to the procedure. in the first phase, member states will be tasked with developing marine strategies at the level of regional seas and proposing concrete solutions to meet the specific needs of these seas. marine strategies should primarily include an assessment of the state of the marine environment, its threats and impacts, environmental objectives and indicators, and monitoring programmes. in the second phase, member states will be responsible for developing and implementing measures to achieve good environmental status. cooperation between member states and with third countries with which member states share marine waters will be essential. to achieve this, member states will have to work within the framework of regional sea conventions. regional conventions are invaluable partners in the implementation of the strategy. this is demonstrated by the long-standing experience of these conventions both in terms of scientific and technical capabilities and qualifications, but also in terms of the demonstrated ability to work effectively at regional level. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance and the sensitivity of marine ecosystems. a high level of protection of the marine environment is a prerequisite for exploiting the full economic potential of the oceans and seas. the marine environment is indeed a fundamental resource of our maritime economy. the marine environment is in danger. the eu must therefore act effectively. i hope that the strategy we have proposed will contribute to that.
the committee on fisheries adopted an opinion on the proposal. the main objective of the proposed directive, mr president, is to achieve a good state of the marine environment. this strategy is more urgent today than ever, because the marine ecosystem has been seriously degraded. but for this strategy to be effective, we need to be aware of two or three things. first of all, back home, we say if you don't crack eggs, you don't make an omelet. the money allocated to this action is very small. the commission has already proposed a new approach to the problem of the use of the euro in the european union. i think that is not enough. saving our seas is such a serious matter that it's worth spending more money. secondly, we need to coordinate our actions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen are not caught by the fishermen themselves. we must reach out to them, convince them that they must first of all protect the environment. but not only; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the third point i would like to make is the one that was raised by commissioners borg and dimas. what is this ? that we should agree on some common indicators to measure the state of the environment at the moment, so that - and this is very important - when we talk about good state of the marine environment, we mean the same thing. so we have to agree on common metrics. in conclusion, i would like to say and emphasize that the directive on the marine strategy must give fisheries the importance it deserves and put it at the centre of the effort.
mr president, the protection systems for the marine environment are covered in part by various sectoral policies of the european union, but the result is a conglomeration of policies, legislative acts, programmes and action plans, without an overall integrated policy for the protection of the marine environment. the two combined legislative frameworks on the thematic strategy for the protection and conservation of the environment and the marine strategy directive aim to achieve good environmental status of the marine environment of the european union by 2021. however, if we take into account, first, the general nature of the two regulations and, secondly, the pillars on which they are based, it is certain that in 2021 not only will there be no good state of the marine environment, but there will be no improvement in the current bad state, which is directly acknowledged in the explanatory memorandum to the proposal for a directive, which states that overall there has been a substantial deterioration of the marine environment in recent decades. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. the absence or substandard of waste storage and treatment infrastructure. in particular, the pillars on which both the thematic strategy and the proposal for a directive are based are the common fisheries policy and the green paper on the european union's maritime policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in our view, these are essentially a number of interventions, but not substantial, which are on the same wavelength as the commission's proposal, which, as a more bold and ambitious objective, puts the shortening of the deadline from 2021 to 2017. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is now imperative for the european union to have a comprehensive policy for the protection of the marine environment, because the fragmentary legislation in force so far has not been able to prevent the reduction of biodiversity and habitat loss. it is therefore our duty to future generations to achieve a very high level of protection of the marine environment, so that our strategy for sustainable development is in line with the lisbon objectives, since we must not forget that in many countries of the union and for a significant part of the population, the sea is a major pole of economic development. at the same time, this directive provides a historic opportunity for member states to cooperate in an area which until recently was a field of confrontation and competition, such as marine fishing areas and quantities to be caught. the main objective should be to define clearly the term good environmental status of marine ecosystems in order to achieve a coherent and effective marine policy at european union level. i believe that the establishment of marine protected areas as a tool for protecting ecosystems and tackling the loss of biodiversity is also a major contribution to this objective. the commission is also proposing to reduce the deadlines for achieving the objectives of the proposed directive by 2017.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would also like to thank the ppe and mr freitas on behalf of my political group for their reflections on the commissioner's statements on milk quotas. i shall not go into the importance of the dairy sector in europe, as we all know, in terms of production, employment, investment, external trade or food security. i would point out, however, that any proposal to abolish or not abolish the milk quotas should be studied in good time and carefully and its effects analysed, first of all, on farm income and the other sectors strongly affected, but also on rural development itself. this analysis should cover all the regions of the union, but also the specificities of milk production in some of them. we cannot, commissioner, be in favour of controlling milk production after 2015, given the current conditions which often create oligopolistic situations in the sector. it is a production model of the previous philosophy of the common agricultural policy. on the other hand, however, a release of milk quotas overnight before 2015 cannot be accepted. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. and in the context of the health check, commissioner, we cannot announce any product revisions in 2008-2009. if we want to believe that this is a health check, it is a simplification of the common agricultural policy. i have a question for you: the aid may be released in 2007. how does this combine with the liberalization or maintenance of the quota system? i know, commissioner, that you will make a fair proposal on limits so that producers are not left in doubt. i think that political commitment is there, but above all the question of early consultation with the european parliament will be what will give the sector a competitive edge and a clear direction.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, we are being asked today to take a position on a proposal for a rural development policy which we consider to be invalid, contradictory and dangerous for the course of the cap itself, but also for our own credibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is intended to improve the results of this arbitrariness on the part of the european council. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission's proposals to set the measure on a multiannual basis at national level and to respect the conditions of the rural development fund are in principle in line with our views. the commission's proposals for improvements, while they may be considered a good effort on the part of the commission towards the council, cannot be considered sufficient. as the socialist group, we will vote against the commission's regulation on voluntary modulation at this stage for the following reasons: firstly, to strengthen the commission's negotiating position vis-à-vis the council, which basically wants voluntary modulation as a blank cheque for the management of community pillar 1 and pillar 2 expenditure. secondly, to give the commission the time to present a comprehensive proposal which meets the real needs and the real mechanisms for supporting rural development without renationalizing the cap. thirdly, to allow time to study the effective and substantial absorption of the community resources transferred from the compulsory variation and from the new supplementary variation, in order to avoid the phenomenon of the return of significant resources by the member states due to insufficient implementation of the programmes. commissioner, there is already a timetable for assessing the new cap and its priorities. we expect the commission to consider measures for sustainable, effective, simple and transparent policies that contribute to the objectives of convergence and rural development. that is a policy which you will find my group in agreement with. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, they should first be clarified as regards their feasibility, their added value and the achievement of the objective of rural cohesion. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, commissioner, sesar is a very good idea, but you have to tell us something that you do not know: what will be the scope of action. what is the european airspace on the southeast side? do we know each other? let's identify this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. imagine what could have happened! how can we define the area of action when, passing through the northern part of cyprus, which is a member of the european union, the fir is not valid for nicosia but for turkey? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. and well, in the air we will achieve it, but on the ground what happens when with the various bottles, with the colognes etc., we delay half an hour more so that someone does not get one gram more deodorant. that's all bullshit and nonsense. so if you want to determine something right, do it in its entirety.
in writing. the deadlock that the new cap has created for the rural economy, for workers in agricultural processing plants and for small and medium-sized farmers since its first year of application and which will intensify once it is completed, is being mitigated by the commission's proposal for the development of energy and biomass farms. but the incentives and conditions for their payment contained in the proposal favour large farms in the northern eu countries, which have a comparative advantage because of the soil-climatic conditions and large ownership, rather than countries with a dry climate and small ownership, because they are horizontal and deliberately ignore these characteristics. in our country, for example, there are no areas which have been included in the setaside scheme to be used for energy crops, so that there is no benefit from this measure, and the area aid of eur 4,5 per hectare is insignificant in this respect and does not constitute a substantial incentive. for these reasons we are opposed to the proposed regulation, although we consider the commission's proposal for the new member states as regards energy crops to be a positive one in principle, because it is moving towards equal treatment without being equal treatment.
in writing. the business interests of the aquaculture industry, after the rapid growth of the industry in indigenous fish and shellfish species, want to enter the cultivation of non-indigenous species. the proposal for a regulation provides for certain safety procedures because there is a clear risk of disturbing the natural biodiversity of an area following the introduction and release of non-native species. however, full assurance is unlikely, particularly since the provision of the necessary data has been entrusted to the operators themselves - something similar to the gmos. historically, it has been shown that species such as carp, trout, etc., have not been affected in the areas released. however, nothing prevents this historical precedent from being repeated, no matter how many attempts and safeguards are made. on the other hand, the potential for introducing such organisms and the possible economic benefits that would result could be offset by fishing or even farming them in countries where they form natural populations, without any risk to natural ecosystems. this would also allow these countries to develop in a similar way, to the benefit of their peoples, as opposed to the economic effects on the eu member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. the commission is preparing a new attack on small and medium-sized farmers with its proposal to reduce direct payments by 20%. the transfer of 20% of resources from the first pillar, which concerns direct aid, to the second pillar, which is mainly used by entrepreneurs and large farmers, means a reduction in support and income for small and mediumsized farmers. the result will be an acceleration of the elimination of small farmers and the concentration of agricultural production in fewer hands. in many cases it will even reduce agricultural production and employment, which will not be compensated by the development of activities in the second pillar. the proposal to make this transfer optional will create two-speed farmers and the prospect of making optional transfer compulsory in the near future. such manipulations have been done before. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cap is not disrupted. tobacco production fell by 70% and beet cultivation by 40%. the completion of the cap will have the same negative consequences on other basic crops in my country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, there is a tendency for all speakers to regard their own subject as the most important of the debate. the commission's legislative work programme is a matter of great importance, and i would like to say - and i will mention regional development - that next year we will not have very important subjects to discuss. we voted on the legislation this year and what is the big challenge for the european commission is to implement this legislation properly. we must start implementing the programmes in good time so that we can absorb the funds, but above all, use the money of european taxpayers for the benefit of social and economic cohesion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall therefore be present to monitor what the european commission is doing. the fourth report on cohesion which the european commission will be presenting, and which we are awaiting, will obviously be important in this context. the question of the solidarity fund is a matter of the legislative initiative. the fund, that is, which covers problems arising from natural and technological disasters. there, we have finished the first reading, but there is an unjustified delay in the council. the old regulation is outdated and the european union must show its solidarity with the affected areas - especially when we are talking about major disasters - because it is thus closer to the citizen. the commission must therefore stand in solidarity with parliament. we must put pressure on the council, which for some reason - perhaps because the finance ministers are responsible and do not want to give more money - does not see the need to go further. we are therefore waiting for concrete proof from the european commission.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, how does 2006 end? what is our foreign policy? we saw her the other day in finland. we curse russia and pet turkey. this is the reality. we insult russia, with whom we have a relationship, an energy dependence, and we pet turkey, which defiantly says: "i am turkey and i will impose on europe whatever i want". and, you see, it is forcing us to talk to it at a time when it does not accept the 25th state of the european union, cyprus. that's our policy. we don't see what's happening in gaza. the european union will finally see what is happening in this part of the world where children are being killed every day. there are about 500,000 dead in iraq. when are we going to take the initiative? to a billion dead? so what is europe? europe is on america's pipeline that takes us where it wants. good, we've given her the wheel. let's at least take the brake off her so we can be something. otherwise we are nothing but servants of american foreign policy, which whenever it wants, wherever it wants, it leads us. what are our relations with china finally? do we know them? what are the relationships? are they hostile? are they friendly? so how do we deal with this factor? a sino-russian axis is developing. what are we gonna be? the mortadella, the salami between the sandwich america wants to achieve? let's decide our own foreign policy. we should make our own policy. we can't see her anywhere. we do not see a political europe anywhere. we are the followers of american policy. and i do not think that this is going to lead to good trends, to good democratic developments. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
member of the commission. under the principle of subsidiarity every member state of the european union retains full responsibility for the content and organisation of educational systems. i have just come from the education council which completed its work today under the finnish presidency. the commission played and will continue to play a role in building a policy for the modernisation of higher education as part of the implementation of the important lisbon strategy, through policy dialogue and mutual learning, in particular through the open method of coordination in education and training as well as in the field of research. as set out in the commission communication on delivering a modernisation agenda for universities, measures in higher education are needed, ranging from curriculum reform to governance and funding reforms. the main responsibility, of course, lies with the member states’ national authorities and universities. there is also financial support for the modernisation agenda from the community programmes in education and research. there is potential for substantial support from the structural funds under both the competitiveness and the convergence objectives. with regard to university-based research, it should be noted that the forthcoming seventh framework programme for research and development substantially widens the opportunities for enhanced university research activities. as you know, total eligibility for projects is going up from 50% to 75% and programmes in lifelong learning and research for the next seven years will both see a very substantial increase in their budgets for the 2007-2013 period. i think a very important message is sent out by the european institute of technology. that is not something outside the framework of this question. it is a very important initiative to boost the transfer of knowledge by those who intensify investment in creativity, innovation and the improvement of our competitiveness. the eit can improve european competitiveness in all three parts of the knowledge triangle: education, research and innovation. with regard to ranking, which is an important part of the question put by mr mavrommatis, there are indeed several international rankings worldwide. each has its own strengths, but also its own weaknesses. although they are useful in terms of giving an impression of the competitive position of universities, the diversity of universities’ missions means that no single set of criteria can be considered as an objective measure. different ranking systems give different weights to various criteria and consequently arrive at different results. however, provided the criteria are explicit, they can be a useful tool for both policy-makers and managers. at this stage, to answer the question directly, the commission is not planning to draw up an official ranking list.
madam president, commissioner, do you think that many of the higher education institutions which have a prominent place in the overall ranking of two other new surveys that followed owe their progress - especially this one - as well as their studies and their students to the fact that they have private education standards? and if so, does the commission intend to subsidize member states that would undertake a similar effort, regardless of the private grants that most universities in the world receive?
member of the commission. madam president, in accordance with the principles of institutional and procedural autonomy which underpin the ec treaty, it is for each member state to determine which courts are responsible for competition matters. most member states, as you are aware, have specific procedural rules for competition-related issues and these include, for example, referring these cases directly to higher courts, limiting the number or type of competent courts or using specialist courts. national courts also have at their disposal a number of mechanisms in case of doubt about the application of article 81 and article 82 to a proceeding. in particular, further to article 15 of regulation 1/2003, national courts can ask the commission for its opinion on any question on the interpretation of the ec competition rules raised by the facts of a case. so far the national courts have done so in some twenty cases. if a binding interpretation of the rules is sought, the national court can refer to the court of justice under the preliminary ruling procedure and a number of member states also provide for the possibility for the courts to refer awkward questions to the national competition authorities. the commission, of course, welcomes all initiatives taken by member states to increase the expertise of the national judiciary in ec competition law. the commission itself has already cofinanced the training of approximately 1900 judges on the application of ec competition laws.
madam president, is the overlap of the responsibilities of the national competition committees with those of other regulatory authorities leading to a fragmentation of competition policy in many member states? is it a source of legal uncertainty? do you think, commissioner, that a strong institution in which the regulatory authorities are merged - as, for example, happened in the netherlands, where the competition commission absorbed the energy regulatory authority and the telecommunications commission - would be a good model for other member states?
member of the commission. it might indeed be a possibility to give more information on how the ecn is working in the situation you touched upon. in our regular contacts with all the authorities concerned we should push to ascertain what would be best in their specific circumstances. i believe that our formula, if it can be done in the member state itself, and if linked with our rules and regulations in this area, can be of help. we should take into account that national courts have only had the right to apply under articles 81 and 82 in full in actions already commenced. coordination between the national authorities and the commission is intense and on a regular daily basis. i am fully aware that the dialogue has been fruitful until now, and see no reason to expect any change.
member of the commission. let me start by offering my regards to the honourable member, because he has touched upon a very important issue, starting with the compliment that we are the biggest competition authority. my colleague, commissioner figeľ, replied to a question about ranking, and at the moment our ranking in the competition field is number one. being number one is an honour, but it is also a challenge because one wants to retain that position. you mentioned de beers and i shall write to you in detail about what we have already done. as you are aware, we were active in the alrosa/de beers case and that was also quite specifically related to the issue you are touching upon. we have limited resources, but at a certain point, when it is decided to tackle a monopoly or a quasi-monopoly, we take things further. we will remain alert and follow this case.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to point out in her reply that the priority is to ensure the effectiveness of the regulatory authorities, the competition committees and transparency. these are the basic principles. i believe that the regulators as they have been selected and decided by the commission - in particular the energy regulators - play an important role in maintaining their independence from the competition committee.
president of the council. mr president, the decision to move to qualified majority voting will naturally be taken on the basis of the provisions of the treaties on european union. that is where the union has its competence and i refer to the answer i gave to the previous question, in so far as there has not been a consensus so far.
president of the council. in september, the finnish presidency presented a proposal for council conclusions on decent work. the proposal has now been examined by the three preparatory bodies of the council, which deal with social affairs, trade and development issues, as decent work is an important factor in all three policy areas. the council is expected to deliver its conclusions in december. the draft conclusions presented by the presidency address a number of issues on the basis of the commission communication on decent work referred to by the honourable member. in addition to the proposal for council conclusions on decent work, the council has spent a great deal of time and work during the finnish presidency on the proposal for a european globalisation adjustment fund which was discussed in the european parliament. finland hopes that the matter will be resolved as soon as possible so that the fund can help workers who are facing the negative effects of globalisation. at an informal meeting of the council of ministers for employment, social affairs and health in helsinki on 6-8 july, the ministers discussed how productivity could be improved by improving the quality of working life. they highlighted, among other things, the growth cycle of decent work and labour productivity. at the sixth asem summit in helsinki on 10 and 11 september, heads of state recognised the need to strengthen the social dimension of globalisation and stressed that productive work, decent work, the rights of all workers, social security and labour market dialogue are crucial for sustainable socioeconomic development. 'decent work for all' was also the main theme of the high-level contribution of the un economic and social council from 3 to 5 july 2006. the commission will also organise a conference on decent work in brussels on 4 and 5 december. the decent work action programme includes the free choice of productive work and respect for the rights of working life, and covers basic labour standards, social dialogue, social security and gender equality. the scope of the programme allows the eu institutions, in particular the european parliament and the council, in their legislative capacity, to examine and encourage the institutions to examine the whole of decent work both within europe and in european trade and development relations with third countries. the social dimension of globalisation and decent work are key themes in the eu's efforts to achieve development policy coherence. in the allocation of the european development fund, particular attention should be paid to a number of issues, including decent work. some aspects of the challenges of globalisation were also on the agenda of the informal tripartite social summit in lahore in october.
mr president, i thank the president-in-office very much for her reply. i would also like to know whether there is any provision for funding the decent work agenda and whether there is agreement on this funding in the council.
mr president, in recent years the system of state monopoly in the field of gambling, which prevails in the majority of the member states of the european union, has been increasingly attacked by private interests. at the european union summit in edinburgh in december 1992, the european council decided, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, not to regulate gambling but to leave it to the exclusive competence of the member states. the 2000 directive of the european parliament and of the council explicitly excludes games of chance from its scope. the same is provided for in the 2006 draft services directive. in view of the specific characteristics of the gambling sector, the court of justice of the european communities recognises the competence of the member states to regulate their market in the way they consider best. mr president, commissioner, one of the most important reasons for these decisions is that the gambling sector is fraught with a high degree of addiction, especially among young people, but also with criminal offences such as fraud, money laundering and others, and i personally believe that only the state can create the mechanisms of control, guarantee, reliability and transparency for consumer protection. finally, i am of the opinion that if the gambling market is liberalised, the system of support for sport in europe could collapse, dragging along along with it actions and support for culture and society, such as the fight against drugs, education and support for people with disabilities or special needs who are mainly financially assisted by the state gambling organization. we believe in the free market, mr commissioner, mr president, but not ignoring the dangers that uncontrolled games sometimes entail.
the directive we are discussing today, mr president, is a success for europe, a success for growth, a success for the working people. it is very important that, after a long period of debate, the right balance has been struck, so that on the one hand we have the opening up of the services market and the facilitation of investment by removing bureaucratic, legal and technical obstacles, but on the other hand we have full respect for the rights of workers - a point which was accepted in february by the european trade unions - and at the same time, of course, the exclusion of certain areas which have specific characteristics. the oecd, the organisation for economic cooperation and development, in a report talks about 2.5 million new jobs being created thanks to this directive. it would be a pity, while ensuring the rights of workers, not to take advantage of this opportunity. we would not be fulfilling our duty to the people, and especially to the workers. the commission's original proposal has been met with objections and misunderstandings. it is particularly positive that this procedure is ending with a very broad consensus in the european union. we have unanimity in the council and we have an overwhelming majority of members in the european parliament supporting the council's common position. the european people's party, the liberals and the socialists have all come together to a common approach, and this proves that europe can still choose, compose and arrive at solutions necessary for the citizens, especially for the economically and socially weakest. i think we should all be very pleased that the european parliament has played a particularly important role in this successful process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the majority of the european parliament considers that the bolkenstein directive has not been in force since last february. the original proposal has indeed been improved and some of its dangerous provisions have been removed. this was after a hard battle between the socialists and the left. the neoliberal spirit, however, remains in the council's common position, as crucial issues for the rights of european workers remain unclear. moreover, services of general economic interest are not excluded from the scope, but the principle of ambiguity prevails in the article on the principle of the country of origin in question. the court of justice of the european communities will be called upon to fill in the gaps by creating, as it has done in other areas, a liberal - business-friendly case law - in the name of completing the internal market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and this is defined by unemployed, poor and discouraged workers. do not ignore them, or at least do not toy with them!
the directive on the liberalization of services is a further step in the reactionary direction of european capital. it encourages monopolisation of service markets with particularly negative effects on quality, safety and cost of services. it allows monopolies to benefit from 'low-cost' services from providers in other member states. it uses the single internal market to lower the price of labour and exploit it, making a profit. it promotes the liberalisation and penetration of large capital into a range of public services and services of general interest. it calls into question hard-won labor rights. it exerts pressure on the working class of each member state, through discrimination between workers, to equalize downwards the labour relations. he's making legislative changes to the detriment of the working class and its rights. it is the precursor of the reactionary changes in labour law which are already being worked out in the background of the tripartite cooperation, eu-governments-plutocracy-compromised trade union forces. the kke calls on the working class and the popular strata to escalate their struggles against the whole of the anti-people policy of the eu and the governments of the member states, to contribute to changing the correlation of forces at the political and trade union level, to make their action more effective in meeting the modern needs of the working people's family.
in writing. the coalition and the european left voted against the amended bolkestein proposal adopted by the european parliament because it would lead to a squeeze on the position of workers and would be a serious blow against social europe. the compromise between the euro-right and the socialists moderates, but does not negate, the neoliberal philosophy and the great negative social burden of the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission and council's reworded proposal, which parliament adopted today without any amendments, reinforces all these dangerous ambiguities. the european court of justice has systematically protected service providers by its case law, using the principle of the country of origin. it always decides against the host country's rules on the grounds that they make it difficult for the companies concerned to operate. the risk of transfer of businesses to countries with weaker social and environmental legislation is reinforced by the adoption of the directive. the fight of the european left against social dumping will continue after the adoption of the directive, both at national and european level, in cooperation with the trade unions and non-governmental organisations.
mr president, the mobilization of the mothers in black to save their children in beit hanoun, as shown by the international media, was the dance of a modern tragedy experienced by the palestinian people and calling for their redemption. but there can be no redemption for the palestinian people as long as the dangerous and hopeless strategy of the united states in the region continues, as long as the dangerous and hopeless policy of the israeli military and political leadership continues. unfortunately, today we have heard the commissioner speak as if the european union were an international non-governmental humanitarian organization. the european union, however, commissioner, is a political body with international obligations and responsibilities to defend democratic principles and international humanitarian law. the european union has once again demonstrated the enormous strategic deficiency in the palestinian cause. mr solana should have been here today to see the results of the decision of the council of ministers in february when they imposed economic sanctions on the palestinian people who had expressed themselves democratically in the elections. the european union is currently paying for these impasses, politically and humanitarianally, on behalf of the palestinian people.
i'm the editor. mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam vice-president of the european commission, the experience gained in recent years in responding to natural and man-made disasters has revealed the limited capacity of national intervention and, consequently, the growing expectations for community aid. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: in this context, an early warning and response system is required, based on the following four components: identification and assessment of risks; continuous monitoring of risks; a warning and communication mechanism; and, finally, preparedness, i.e. the ability to react and provide assistance. i would like to mention a few of the most important features of such an effective civil protection mechanism, as mentioned in the excellent barnier report, which we voted in the plenary, and in the report i tabled to the euro-mediterranean parliament. we need a system of vigilance, intervention units from the participating states, guidelines on how to respond and inform citizens, best practices for dealing with situations and mutual consular assistance to identify contact points between member states. it is understandable that without the necessary funding and the effective involvement of the member states, the whole project will be put on hold. the question is, madam president, whether the council is prepared to meet this requirement and, of course, to ensure the necessary cooperation of the member states. i believe that the need to respond to the demands and expectations of the citizens will ultimately be paramount in the decisions to be taken. the increase in the frequency and intensity of natural disasters, which have resulted in the loss of lives, but also in economic and environmental damage, is the main reason for this. we must also always bear in mind that the promotion of cooperation between member states in the field of civil protection will gradually strengthen european awareness among citizens and will be a visible sign of the solidarity which must distinguish the european union.
president of the council. in preparing its reply, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council has assumed that the people who asked you want to know how the union's emergency response capabilities are to be developed and advanced within the council. the presentations by the speakers have now confirmed that our assumption has been correct and that is what is at issue. the first objective of the council's action is to create better coordination mechanisms to ensure more effective aid operations. the council will draw on existing structures, such as the emergency response monitoring and information centre and the general secretariat of the council of the european union, which are linked to the commission. the second objective of the council's action is to get aid quickly to where it is needed. member states shall be primarily responsible for providing their own emergency assistance. the council is currently examining, on the basis of the commission's proposal for the establishment of a financial instrument for emergency and rapid response, whether, under certain conditions, part of the community budget allocated to eu rescue operations could be used for the rental of transport and equipment. the above points to the council's high priority for strengthening the european union's capabilities in the field of emergency services.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the fact that this is the third time in recent months that we have discussed this subject shows the increased sensitivity of the european parliament. i have already said that it is paradoxical to have a common policy for farmers, for the environment, for regional development, and not to have a policy for natural disasters, which affect both farmers and regional development and the environment. this is a paradox in the way the european union has operated so far. i also believe that the indifference to these issues is reinforcing euroscepticism. the image of the european union would be much more positive if there were a european mechanism and after any natural disaster the european union was present in the problem facing the citizens at that time. let's get this straight. i don't think it takes much thought to adopt that notion. we do not want to replace the member states. the member states will of course still be present, but what we want is coordination. the council has invited mr varnier, a distinguished european commissioner, to make a proposal to you, not we. you noted the proposal to the council in june and since then the proposal has remained unchanged. you have to tell us something. i know that you are not just representing your country here, but 25 countries, and you have to coordinate with each other, but coordinate. it's been months. do we have to wait for another disaster like the one in germany in 2002 before we do anything? then, in response to the disasters, we set up the solidarity fund. we cannot go on like this. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union and its citizens need agencies that are efficient and transparent. as you know, in order to further this objective, the council adopted on 28 june 2004 the conclusions of the commission communication on the framework for the regulatory agencies of the european union. in these conclusions, the council drew attention, inter alia, to the commission's intention to make the proposal a legally binding instrument defining a horizontal framework for regulatory agencies. the council considered that the proposal should address key issues relating to the establishment, operation and supervision of regulatory agencies, in particular to ensure consistency, transparency, good governance, credibility and cost-effectiveness and the legality of the activities of regulatory agencies. the commission then presented a draft interinstitutional agreement on the framework for the european union regulatory agencies in february 2005. the commission proposal stated that the aim of the interinstitutional agreement was to establish a horizontal framework for the establishment, structure, operation, evaluation and supervision of regulatory agencies. however, when the draft was discussed in the council at working group level in april 2005, it was considered that it could not be agreed in the form of an interinstitutional agreement, at least as regards the content of the proposal. the regulatory agencies were also not considered capable of adopting a legal act, as there is no legal basis for such an act in the treaty. the council's discussions have indeed presented various models of how to proceed. however, no agreement was reached on how to proceed. during our presidency we have considered various options for moving forward with the interinstitutional agreement on regulatory agencies. we have focused in particular on the content and legal basis of the commission's proposal. however, the time has not been ripe for a new commission's overall report. it is also not possible to have a new debate on the subject. however, it is clear that further discussion is needed both on the content of the commission's possible future proposal and on its form. it is important to remember that any horizontal framework for agencies must also work in practice. it should ensure that there is a real need both for the establishment of agencies and for their operation, taking also into account a cost-effectiveness analysis. as the presidency, we are well aware that the european parliament has paid attention to this subject on several occasions. in its draft interinstitutional agreement, the commission has emphasised the public service role of the regulatory agencies. they improve the implementation and application of community rules throughout the european union. it is not just a question of creating a legally binding framework for the development of the union's action. we need to show citizens that the union is committed to promoting the things that matter to them in a credible and cost-effective way - in this case through regulatory agencies.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the commission still considers that an interinstitutional agreement seems the best solution for a framework for regulatory agencies. only this legal instrument has the advantage of involving the three institutions from the outset and allows all three to agree good rules of governance applicable to regulatory agencies. the recent creation of a number of new agencies, with more on the way, makes the case for progress still stronger. we now have 21 agencies under the first pillar with 2 more on the way: the gender institute and the chemicals agency to be created under the reach regulation. we all seem to agree on the desirability of action. if the problem is the instrument by which we should move forward and the proposed interinstitutional agreement is questioned, then the council needs to explain what alternative it proposes. the commission is prepared to consider alternatives but needs to know how the council would like to take this matter forward.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, the functioning of the european regulatory bodies is closely linked both to multi-level european governance and to the european strategy for better regulation. the situation of interinstitutional inertia in which this matter has found itself leads me to ask the council and the commission the following questions: firstly, is it necessary or not to specify the basic conditions and criteria for the framework of the regulatory bodies? secondly, the number of regulatory bodies is on the increase. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. will the commission and the council contribute to the rationalization, transparency, democratic control and horizontal approach of the regulatory bodies? thirdly, the commission has taken the initiative. the european parliament has also made its position clear. the council's institutional diplomacy of silence must be interpreted as referring the matter to the greek calendars? ad calendas grecas, is that it? fourthly, does the council consider - and we expect a clear answer - the commission's draft interinstitutional agreement to be a living document? the commission is prepared to take the necessary steps to ensure that the council's proposals are implemented, and that the council's proposals are implemented.
the report, madam president, is the clearest and most revealing statement of the character of the european union as an imperialist union of european monopolies that is being militarized. the so-called 'european security strategy' has nothing to do with any security strategy for the peoples, but is an openly aggressive imperialist policy moving in two directions. the european union must be able to take action against the terrorist groups, and the european union must be able to take action against the terrorist groups, and the european union must be able to take action against the terrorist groups. the aim is to secure a better share of the market. this policy is based on the principle of preventive warfare. the adoption, in essence, of nato's new military doctrine for imperialist interventions around the world, under the pretext of dealing with global threats, terrorism and disrupting the flow of natural resources, the imposition of democracy, crisis management and the principle of preemptive strike. it declares that the european union's imperialist interventions are no longer limited. their field is the whole world. it is indirectly following the model of the imperialist interventions in yugoslavia, afghanistan and iraq. that is, an imperialist war with various alibis, like in iraq for weapons of mass destruction that were never found. then occupation and then reconstruction. this is how the imperialists get rich: by stealing the wealth of the people. it also promotes the creation of rapid reaction forces and deliberately links military and civilian missions, calling military interventions 'humanitarian'. it also links the external security of the european union with the creation of a european police and coastguard force, the militarization of borders and the military response to migrants and refugees. he's increasing funding for military purposes even with hidden budgets. but for the workers, they have starvation wages and constant austerity. the promotion of this strategy is intensifying and escalating the european union's aggression, both towards third countries and within itself. the enemy is the people! the efforts to strengthen the military power of the european union are linked to the desire to strengthen it in the face of imperialist competition, but also to strengthen it in the face of the competition of the war industries. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the crowns' claims about guantanamo and the cia's flights and abductions on european soil are hypocritical, since it pursues the same imperialist policy and at the same time strengthens its organic cooperation with nato. the peoples must be alarmed and act against the imperialists' armaments, militarization and terrorism.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, i would like to start by congratulating the honourable rapporteur for this excellent report. the commission works hard to promote gender equality both within and outside the european union and in this regard the european parliament’s sustained commitment to these issues is vital. the world needs women leaders at all levels, be it in local communities or in international politics. women and men must participate on equal terms in the drafting of agendas that affect us all and in the development of solutions to the problems we are facing. however, if we look around us, what do we see? men still make most of the decisions. the main examples given in your report clearly demonstrate that the picture is not ideal even for our european democracies and, as you correctly point out, further efforts are needed even inside our respective institutions, the commission and the council, to achieve a better gender balance. stereotypes and discrimination persist, biased recruitment and promotion systems are rampant, labour market and educational segregation hinder women in achieving their full potential. one of the core factors remains the imbalanced division of work and family responsibilities. while the competence to act in this field remains at national level, i am convinced that the commission can bring real added value by promoting awareness-raising, information gathering, research and analysis, networking and dissemination of best practice. this role of the commission is clearly reflected in our march 2006 communication ‘roadmap to gender equality’. the future european institute for gender equality will also help keep the issue high on the european agenda, collect and analyse data, conduct research and disseminate good practice. one priority of the roadmap is promotion of the participation of women and men in decision-making processes. considering that negative gender stereotypes are strongly related to the unequal representation of women, we have chosen their elimination as another key objective for our programme. amongst the commission’s strategic actions for the next five years, the establishment of a european network of women in economic and political decision-making can be highlighted, as well as awareness-raising campaigns, data collection, analysis and exchange of good practices involving all stakeholders to combat gender stereotypes. the roadmap also includes the promotion of gender equality outside the european union. as an example of our action in the external policy field, i would like to mention the five-year action plan on gender equality being signed today in istanbul by ministers from the 35 countries of the euro-mediterranean partnership. women’s political participation is one of the key pillars of today’s action plan that will be supported by a regional project starting in 2007. through the european initiative on democracy and human rights, we fund several projects promoted women’s empowerment. as examples i would like to mention the regional project in west africa aiming at enhancing women’s participation in five countries of the region, the regional project in latin america, seeking to enhance the democratic participation of young people, particularly girls, and the projects undertaken in egypt, jordan, nigeria, morocco and kyrgyzstan to empower women to actively participate in political life. it is useful that a reference to elections is included in the report. in that context, the commission has already incorporated the gender perspective into the election observation methodology and women’s participation is systematically monitored throughout the election observation missions. a good example of this can be seen in the european mission recently deployed to yemen. as you know, the commission has a strong and long-standing commitment to mainstream gender across the board in our external relations. since 2001, the ‘programme of action for mainstreaming gender equality in community development cooperation’ has given us a framework within which we have implemented an extensive training programme and developed political tools. in 2007, in cooperation with the united nations and the international labour organisation, we shall be launching a new capacity-building programme, this time directed principally at our partner governments, civil society and other programme-implementing partners in third countries. a specific thematic focus of this programme will be the promotion of women’s participation in peace building, along the lines of united nations security council resolution 1325. finally, it is clear to me that, although progress has been made, tremendous efforts are still needed to progress towards gender equality and women’s effective participation in the political sphere. in that respect, the commission is committed to continuing to mobilise all the instruments available. pressing issues include the following: first, we need a stronger gender focus in electoral, constitutional, legal and judicial matters. we need to enhance our support of women’s active involvement in defining and implementing policies at national level. secondly, companies need more women at board level to ensure that the widest possible range of thinking, perspectives, experience and abilities is brought to bear on high-level decision-making. third, overcoming gender stereotypes in education, training, the labour market and in the media remains an important challenge in all countries. finally, to achieve gender balance in decision-making, men must be mobilised and fully involved if we want to move ahead. family-friendly policies for women and men, such as more flexible working arrangements and quality childcare facilities, can be of much help.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, mrs gomes' initiative to draw up a report on women in international politics is commendable because, as the commissioner has rightly pointed out, the comparisons of the figures and data she presents - from nobel laureates to the number of women who have risen to key positions in international politics in states or international organisations - reveal a lack of female participation. it is undeniable that a democratic society must be represented democratically, by both men and women, and equal participation must begin with training and early initiation into the secrets of politics for men and women, without any gender discrimination, and with the possibility of linking professional employment to international foreign policy and family life open. in addition to the richness of action and the promising design of the european union, the gomes report would retain its value and its timeless character if it did not contain references to specific governments of states and if it did not present lists of countries that have taken measures that cannot, by merely mentioning them, be evaluated. the participation of women as mere physical presence on the international political stage is not enough. instead, it must be due to qualifications and abilities that were assessed independently of their gender. the constitutions and laws of the member states must uphold the principle of equal treatment and parties must promote worthy men and women without discrimination. but isn't that a matter of subsidiarity? can we dictate the composition of the un? we shall therefore not support the specific points in the report. i would like to congratulate the european commission on its proposals, and the european parliament should be guided by the principle of equality in the composition of the directorates of its delegations and should promote the corresponding number. we shall support only the specific points of the report i have mentioned.
madam president, the speeches that have gone before have made it clear that women are not participating in international politics, a record number, one might say, compared with other areas of politics. i am grateful to mrs gomes for giving us the opportunity to discuss this matter once again. firstly, because it is a very important issue for balance and democracy in the modern world and it is a particular dimension of the struggle for equality and justice and clearly prosperity, as has already been said. the second reason is that this dimension is not usually included in the equality strategies implemented by the member states, and the european union does not have the competence to impose it, but it could promote it more bindingly and more effectively. the current situation is not satisfactory, as has been said, and the forecasts are not optimistic either, since, according to studies, after 2040 we will be able to exceed the 30% global rate of women's participation in national parliaments alone. we must therefore make a self-criticism and an honest allocation of responsibilities, and we must recognize that simple truths and fundamental values are not being put into practice because of a lack of awareness and information in society and, of course, a lack of political will on the part of all the actors - in their respective spheres - as is stated in the report and in the amendments tabled by my political group. in conclusion, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to refer to our own responsibilities in the institutions of the european union. both the european commission and the european parliament should consistently include in their external relations the dimension of women's issues and the search for a balanced participation, both in their external relations interlocutors and in the composition of their own delegations.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr schwab, for his work on the european ombudsman’s report on his activities in 2005. this is an important report from parliament on the general principles, the state of play and future development of cooperation between the ombudsman and other eu institutions. i would also like to congratulate the ombudsman, mr diamandouros, on his annual report. i am happy, as always, to hear mr diamandouros confirm his commitment to ensuring the highest standards of administration in the european institutions, and that is a commitment the commission shares. i entirely support mr schwab in his endorsement of the role of the ombudsman as an external monitoring mechanism for sound administration. through his work, the ombudsman contributes to the promotion of good administration. i am convinced that, through their cooperation with the ombudsman, eu institutions are helped in fostering a citizen-oriented approach to their daily work. that means ensuring greater transparency of the eu decision-making process and working to develop best practices to meet citizens’ expectations and safeguard their rights. this is about bridging the gap between institutions and eu citizens. i would like to comment on three specific points in the report. firstly, i think that the cooperation between the ombudsman and the commission has developed well in recent years. as pointed out in the report, the commission uses a new internal procedure empowering each commissioner to adopt and transmit communications to the ombudsman. i am happy that both the ombudsman and mr schwab welcome this innovation in their reports. in addition, the commission has adapted its internal rules to speed up the handling of its replies to the ombudsman. the commission will continue to develop its cooperation with the ombudsman. the rapporteur suggests that a similar empowering procedure be introduced for the handling of petitions. while the commission will continue to work closely with the committee on petitions, that is not a possibility that the commission envisages. the committee on petitions and the european ombudsman have distinct roles, each with its own value to citizens. secondly, the report mentions the europa website. it is one of the most visited websites in the world and it has become quite complex to navigate. it is in that light that the commission is well on its way towards refurbishing its own part of the europa portal. the ultimate objective is to transform the europa website into a more user-friendly, well-structured and coherent web portal. it will be multilingual at appropriate levels and the presentation will be more oriented to citizens and communication. thirdly, and finally, the decision to revise the ombudsman’s statute rests with the european parliament, with the approval of the council. the commission is, however, consulted and closely follows developments relating to the proposal, including those in the committees concerned. the commission is currently examining the proposal in detail, and has been in contact with the ombudsman’s office to seek clarification on some aspects of the proposal. in conclusion, i understand that next year the ombudsman intends to include a few star cases in his annual report. these are, as i understand it, cases where the handling of complaints by the eu institutions has been exemplary, regardless of whether maladministration occurred. i think that is an excellent initiative and i also look forward to seeing next year’s report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, madam vice-president wallström, mr diamantoureau, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating my friend and colleague, the rapporteur, mr andreas schwab, on his excellent report, which has made the institution of the european ombudsman increasingly important to european citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i would also like to thank mr diamantoure for the new information he has brought to light from his position, which is a benchmark for the confidence that citizens have in the institutions. i was the rapporteur for the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2004 and i would like to point out that, compared to that year, during which complaints had increased by 53% in relation to the previous year, in 2005 the ombudsman received a total of 3 920 complaints, an increase of 5%. this does not mean that there are more instances of maladministration by the institutions of the european union, but that citizens are more aware of their rights. an important factor in the ombudsman's effectiveness is his cooperation with the institutions of the european union. i would like to mention mr diamantouros' regular briefings and meetings with the committee on petitions and its bureau. the ombudsman's annual report also shows, among other things, the efforts made by the ombudsman and the commission, of course, to explore and further strengthen the network of national and regional ombudsmen by developing the exchange of information on best practice. the participation of the committee on petitions of the european parliament in the network is important and would facilitate practical cooperation between the european institutions and national and regional ombudsmen and would allow for increased regular contacts with the committees of petition of the national parliaments and with the ombudsmen of the member states. a comparative study of the ombudsman's reports for 2004 and 2005 shows that the result was positive, so that we can focus on the points for which the committee on petitions is particularly interested. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, eleven months after the solemn celebration of the 10th anniversary of the institution of the european ombudsman, the 10th anniversary report is adopted today. i congratulate mr diamantoure on his competent representation and effective role as a champion of transparency and good administration in the european union. perhaps next year we will be able to examine his annual report to parliament earlier and more quickly, and the committee on petitions, as its responsible body, will be in direct contact with the ombudsman to be informed of the procedure for signing interinstitutional agreements between him and the european parliament. paragraph 6 of the schwab report rightly deplores the signing of a new agreement with effect from 1 april 2006, i.e. before the adoption of the 2005 report. the ombudsman also submitted a proposal for a revision of his status on 11 july. paragraph 13 of the schwab report welcomes this. i would like to point out, however, that the issues he raises in his demands are particularly sensitive, and his arguments are particularly weak. the prohibition of interference in cases pending before the courts is not open to challenge under the treaties. community officials must be bound by professional secrecy. human rights are the subject of a number of institutions. but we, as a parliament elected by the people, have the right to investigate and to complain. there are plenty of out-of-court procedures. the ombudsman has a number of duties and hopes that he and his staff - who are fortunately constantly increasing: from 38 to 51 and 57 in 2006 - will always be able to respond to the growing number of complaints. however, if the ombudsman complains about the lack of transparency in the council's work, we would ask him, in amendment no 1, which i ask you to support, to check, not after specific complaints from citizens, but on his own initiative, the transparency of epso's recruitment procedures, but also the way in which recruitment is carried out by european bodies, even by his own agency. it is a sensitive issue for young people, mainly europeans, who by the thousands take part in competitions and interviews and have no right to know why they have failed. i also thank the commissioner for pointing out the ombudsman's willingness to take the time to praise the commission.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, to date the european union's print and electronic media have portrayed its anti-people policies in the most attractive way, since, although they are pro-capital, they present them as pro-workers, even blurring opposing views; however, there were no results. the workers, judging from their life experience, are beginning to question the vision of the european union. this was expressed in the large abstention in the last european elections, in the referendums and the "no" to the euro-constitution in france and the netherlands, in the reactions to the euro and, more precisely, in the large mobilizations against privatizations (in education, health, welfare), in industrial relations (insurance and other), events which show that the legitimacy of the european union is on a declining course in the eyes of the people. the tendency to intensify social and political conflicts is thus slowly but surely emerging. it seems that popular discontent is turning into a struggle against this inhumane policy of poverty, injustice and war. the commission, with its white paper on a european communication policy, is thus using all the means at its disposal, starting with its institutions, the member states, national parliaments, local authorities, the media, the use and training of new technologies, the internet, to detect public opinion, popular concerns and dissatisfaction, and to use information to improve its propaganda. it aims, through the money of the people, such as the prince programme, through so-called information campaigns, to improve its propaganda, to convince people to accept the euro-constitution, which militarizes europe and condemns the people to fewer rights and continued austerity, but also to tolerate and accept its policy overall. it concentrates its efforts on controlling the flow of information from the state broadcasting media, national and regional newspapers, private channels, which are in the hands of the vast majority of capital, the internet, and others, in order to shape the exact content that will make its european imperialist policy beautified, attractive and convincing in the eyes of the peoples. the white paper essentially develops a dynamic and active communication policy with hypocrisy and an alibi for free expression and understanding of its policies being implemented. it is thus seeking to disguise its unilateral political choices by means of a strengthened social dialogue which will ensure the necessary smooth functioning of the european union as a mechanism of capital, social consensus or even participation in its political choices.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i have to admit that this discussion has left me a bit puzzled. in the white paper on a new communication policy, we have tried, first of all, to analyse the problem with previous communication policies and see exactly what we have to do to ensure that we democratically safeguard citizens’ rights to information and ensure they have a say in decision-making in europe. we established five areas of action. we need to define common principles, such as freedom of expression, diversity, inclusion, participation. we need to empower citizens. we need to involve them in different ways, from civic education, giving them a basic knowledge of what goes on, to engaging with civil society. we cannot ignore the new media and new technologies. if we think that it is enough to publish an article in the financial times to communicate with citizens, i am sorry, this is 2006. the debate is also shaped elsewhere. the real divide, as someone said at one of our stakeholder conferences, is between the decision-makers and those who use the internet. if you look at the campaign in france, most of the websites on the constitution were ‘no’ websites. where were those who wanted to argue for a ‘yes’ vote? they did not use the internet enough. we have to understand and embrace what is going on in the new technologies. the fourth chapter is understanding public opinion. we have to be more professional in monitoring and linking up to public opinion. as many of you have said, we have to do the job together. all the institutions have to take responsibility. in this debate, some have accused us of issuing propaganda as soon as we do anything and others seem to think that it is enough to increase the number of europe direct information points in europe. that will not do. we have to have a serious communication policy as a tool for democracy, a tool for citizens. they have a right to better understanding. they have a right to participate in a public sphere where we have a truly european political culture and truly pan-european media, reflecting the debate that is going on and helping us to understand and follow it. we also need to establish meeting places for citizens where they can participate. you say we already have democracy in europe. well, we have a participatory deficit. the majority of citizens still say they know very little or do not know enough about the european union and its institutions, they are not able to follow what is being done in the european parliament or the commission. can we simply say that we do not care and continue with business as usual? we have to change the way we communicate with citizens and it is their right to engage with us. we will continue to work on all the things that you have mentioned. we have steadily increased the europe direct centres. we now have 400 and for the first time we have established them in the uk as well. we will increase this number next year, with 30 new centres, and we will continue our obligation to inform citizens, but that is still not enough. this is not just about information, it is about communication. we have to make it a two-way process. most of our citizens get most of their information from radio and television, so we have to make sure that we help radio and television at all levels to report to citizens on what goes on. that is also part of our policy. we will review regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, because access to information is absolutely crucial. transparency, openness and access to information are central to a new communication policy. of course we discuss the content of policies: that is at the core of everything we do. a communication policy cannot replace good content or good policymaking. that is why we engage in plan d activities, where we invite citizens to participate in the political debate about the future of europe. we take seriously the proposals for practical measures such as agora, which are extremely important. we have analysed the problems with the lack of a real communication policy. we have identified the five areas of action. we want a serious reaction from the european parliament. are these the right areas? if you have other proposals, we would be more than happy to work out very practical ideas, so that we can come back to ask for the necessary budgetary resources. we will combine that with reforming the way we work internally, in order to become more professional, more open, more transparent and more democratic. i thank you for this debate and i hope that we shall continue to discuss these very important principles in trying to establish a communication policy that is right for the european union and all its institutions. (applause)
ladies and gentlemen, i'd like to make an announcement. we are very relieved to hear the news of the lifting of the death penalty on mr mirza-tahir hussain, a british citizen who is being held in pakistan. the president of the european parliament and the members of this house have made many efforts to save mr mirza-tahir hussain's life. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results and other information on the vote, see minutes)
because it has been requested by a political group.
voting time is over.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, most of us are fortunate enough to enjoy small luxuries, such as living in our own home, in the neighbourhood of friends and acquaintances. but today we are discussing the attempt of some people in the great european family to reclaim precisely what we consider to be reasonable in our daily lives, namely the right to vote, the right to stand for election and the right to vote. the sandbox refugee movement is made up of displaced citizens from a ghost town that has been in decline for 32 years. these people have, of course, managed to rebuild their lives in cyprus. think, though, of what it means to know that a few miles away is your first home or your parents' home, deserted and inaccessible for reasons beyond your control. ladies and gentlemen, the handing over of the city of famagusta to the legal residents of the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot communities will have many economic and social benefits. sandcastle was a sought-after tourist destination. its reconstruction can restore it to its former glory, but it can also create great potential for trade, by exploiting its port which can be re-opened - as requested by those concerned - using the latest technologies to make the best use of it. if the city is returned to its inhabitants in a way that ensures the strengthening of the ties between the two communities, with guarantees from the international community and of course the european union, then during the reconstruction and development the ties between the two communities will develop reasonably. if an environment of security, certainty and trust is created for economic growth and cooperation, then as labour and economic cooperation develop, so will social ties. the question, in the end, is whether the city can develop its own dynamic. a dynamic that will serve as an example and a precursor. i wonder, since the request comes from the townspeople themselves and with the knowledge of the good ties between the people on both sides, if we have the right to refuse, if we have the right not to help. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the cyprus problem is a matter of national policy, but it is prepared to accept the fact that the cyprus problem is a matter of national policy. we'll all have our responsibilities. responsibilities to the people but also responsibilities to history.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 32 years after the military invasion and the continuing occupation, the photographs coming from the enclosed area of varosha, which is controlled exclusively by the turkish army, are undeniable testimony to the tragedy of cyprus, the violation of international and european law, the collapse of european democratic culture. the request of the greek cypriot citizens - themselves refugees, like their turkish cypriot compatriots in their own country - for the possibility of returning to their homes and property is the basic requirement of respect for humanitarian principles. it is also a vital initiative, mr president, to build a climate of confidence, security and reconciliation between the two communities. an initiative that goes beyond the harsh reality of division and contributes to the effort of common development, coexistence and bridging the psychological gap between the two sides. if the european union works consistently and decisively towards confidence-building measures - and it can do so, commissioner - then the necessary conditions can be created for the resumption of a sincere dialogue aimed at a viable and functional solution to the cyprus problem. the solution is not just a matter of the leaders and their political will. it is closely linked to society and citizens and to the sense of justice that must be instilled. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, mr prime minister of ireland, if i were a painter and i were asked to paint the future of europe, i would use black. we are taking the same steps that destroyed the holy alliance, the former united europe, two centuries ago. we may have laws in europe, but we have no national conscience. we may have the capital, but we don't have the growth. we may have industry, but we don't have energy. we may have a lot of land, but we have no borders. and i ask you: who here knows what the southeastern border of europe is? it's a liquid. there are two problems: the power and the guardianship of america. is it a lie that america is leading us into a perpetual rivalry with russia? in a caution with china? in a standoff in afghanistan and iran? isn't she the one who's been giving us all these deformed lenses about what's going on in the middle east? is it not the one that prevents us from developing an autonomous foreign policy? that's the truth. is there any reaction? is there any desire for europe to have its own autonomy? we have a strong currency, we have a central bank, mr. prime minister, but we don't have our own army. we can make a constitution, but the principles and values that this constitution will embody, what army will defend them? nato, with an american commander-in-chief, a turkish chief of staff and a canadian commander? let's make a decision. do we want to get statehood or are we going to be - what are we - under the guardianship of the american? he says we're out of power. there's a lot of oil in the aegean. come and get it. but the american and turkish situation does not allow it. there is oil that can solve all of europe's problems. let us make an effort to be self-sufficient, to be masters of our own house so that we are not dependent on the americans.
mr president, mr prime minister, i too congratulate you on your presence here today. i think all of us in this room agree that the european union of 25 today and 27 in a month cannot operate by the same rules as the europe of 6, 9, 10 or 15 member states. i remember that in may, during the previous debate on the future of europe, the belgian prime minister had stressed the importance of the next german presidency. mrs merkel has expressed her intention to submit proposals for a european constitutional treaty. we welcome its intentions, but i wonder whether this is realistic or an attempt to resurrect a text that is already dead. the answer cannot be one-sided, because it obviously depends on the objective to be set. as early as july 2005, i had written to the then president, mr blair, and to the president of the commission, mr barroso, and had referred to limiting our demands to the regulation of institutional matters such as the legal personality of the european union, the new weighting of votes in the council, the increase in the powers of the european parliament, the creation of a post of foreign minister, and even the creation of a post of president of the union, the reduction of the number of commissioners, the abolition of the three pillar system and the strengthening of the institution of enhanced cooperation between member states. i believe that this is the only way for europe to emerge from the crisis it is currently going through.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for this close but worthwhile debate. the sign of good cooperation is that all matters, even difficult ones, can be dealt with. this condition for good cooperation was met at the eu-russia summit. these difficult issues were also discussed at a concrete level, not just at the level of principles. the debate has made a strong point that we need a balance in eu-russia cooperation. in the opening speeches at the summit, both sides emphasized strongly that we, the european union and russia, are living in a very strong state of interdependence. in many ways we depend on them, and they depend on us. this balance also includes the element of approaching the partner on an equal footing and also with respect for the partner. the best results in cooperation with russia are also achieved through cooperation and dialogue. it's not that we approach our partner thinking that we have everything right and you have everything wrong and that we're going to teach you how to do it. the best results come from open dialogue on all matters, including respect for one's mate. the fundamental values of the european union are not being traded in this dialogue. our values are not for sale. the eu and russia have a very strong commitment to human rights in their dialogue. the development of the rule of law in russia is of the utmost importance for their practical implementation. the union is cooperating with russia in a number of ways to ensure the rule of law. our four areas of cooperation offer good opportunities for further cooperation not only in the energy sector but also in many other areas. now that we have to continue to work towards the mandate of a new cooperation agreement, it is good to remember that the existing agreement also offers the opportunity to intensify and improve cooperation. we therefore not only have to wait for a new mandate, but we can also proceed on the basis of the existing agreement. the debate also emphasized very strongly the importance of solidarity within the european union. in this case, this solidarity is very much in evidence in the fact that, until the very last moment, both the commission and the council presidency are doing everything possible to resolve the remaining points of dispute and to negotiate a new agreement. unfortunately, that did not work out. president putin has made it very clear on several occasions that polish meat is welcome in russia. the problem, they say, is that the meat is imported from elsewhere and has polish markings on it, and they cannot accept that. it is essential that further work be done to resolve this issue and to reach an agreement. the summit was followed shortly by news of the us and russian accession to a bilateral agreement on russian wto membership. with this significant step on the road to russian wto membership now taken, it is clear that wto membership will be achieved in the near future. it also opens up a whole new, very positive prospect for economic cooperation between the european union and russia. these prospects were also presented at the summit by commissioner mandelsson and trade minister gref. we therefore have a number of positive opportunities, but also a number of problem areas where we still need to continue to cooperate, on the basis of equality and mutual respect.
member of the commission. mr president, eu-russia relations are indeed highly complex. on the one hand, russia is a strategic partner, and on the other hand it is a common neighbour. we have to find a balance between these two very important elements. second, with regard to the issue of meat, we have worked very hard with the poles and with the russians, but we as a commission do not even have an official responsibility for that. we are responsible for imports, but we are not responsible for exports. sometimes these things matter; for instance we have asked for trilateral committees. that is what we have offered. we have asked why we do not sit down together trilaterally and try to find a solution. at the end of a lengthy discussion, as regards illegally imported meat from third countries to russia – it was not about polish meat, i can only subscribe to that – mr putin agreed that he will now instruct his agriculture minister to work more intensively with the poles. i hope that means the path towards finding a solution is clear. unfortunately, i do not think we have more legal possibilities. our colleague’s comments on the wto were very true. this will give us more legal possibilities. i am also happy to tell you that today we adopted the neighbourhood policy communication, which will be coming to parliament in a few days’ time. i will officially present it to the media on monday, because today we had the discussion on turkey. we are also talking about cooperation around the black sea. i wanted to mention that, because it came up in the debate. we think it is highly important to have the neighbours to the east together with the black sea cooperation – that means turkey and russia together. in the end, we have to re-engage and find solutions together. in this new agreement, there will also be the whole issue of energy. many of those issues have already been addressed. the other day we had a very important energy conference in brussels, and there is a whole set of different ideas on transparency, reciprocity and legal certainty for investments. that progress was made at lahti, and that progress also has to be incorporated into our agreement, because we need a stable market of technology and a stable market that will help all of us using russian revenues and resources, and help our own possibilities as consumers. let me also say that we have shown the highest possible level of solidarity with poland. i do not accept that this has not been done at the maximum possible level. on the other hand, we want to go on working, so i think we have to have this complex, balanced relationship. it was a very frank and open meeting. that is always good. i prefer a frank and open talk, and having a chance to solve one issue, maybe solving others the next time around.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the december partsession. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the joint debate on the report by geoffrey van orden, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the accession of bulgaria to the european union [2006/2114 (ini) ] (a6-0420/2006) and the report by pierre moscovici, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the accession of romania to the european union [2006/2115 (ini) ] (a6-0421/2006).
president of the council. on 12 october, the council welcomed the commission's follow-up report on the readiness of bulgaria and romania for eu membership. the commission considers that bulgaria and romania are ready to take on the rights and obligations of membership on 1 january 2007, on the basis of their progress. the council examined the follow-up report in depth and reached the same conclusion as the commission. we also commended bulgaria and romania for their reforms and encouraged them to complete their remaining accession preparations. the council has expressed its support for judicial reform and the cooperation and verification mechanism on the fight against organised crime and corruption. this mechanism shall include the possibility of safeguard measures if necessary. the council also supports the other measures mentioned by the commission to ensure the proper functioning of eu policies and institutions after the accession of bulgaria and romania. the council stressed the need for both countries to continue their political commitment to resolve the outstanding issues. bulgaria and romania shall report regularly on their progress towards meeting the criteria contained in the cooperation and verification mechanism. the first report shall be submitted to the commission by the end of march of the following year. the commission, for its part, will report to the european parliament and the council by june next year on the progress of the countries in the implementation of the criteria. the council will review the situation in june 2007 following the commission's report. the views of the european parliament have been taken into account throughout the entire process of accession of bulgaria and romania. as the representative of the presidency, i would like to thank in particular the members of the delegation to the eu-bulgaria joint parliamentary committee and the eu-romania joint parliamentary committee, as well as all the members of the european parliament, for their important contribution to the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union. we will of course also take due account of the reports under discussion today. the process of ratification of the accession treaty is already well under way in the member states. we look forward to welcoming bulgaria and romania as members of the union on 1 january 2007. the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union will bring to a close the historic fifth enlargement of the eu, which has so far proved a success.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr van orden and mr moscovici, for their well-balanced, substantive reports, which, like the commission reports, give credit to progress, but also highlight the areas where outstanding issues still exist for both countries. both our institutions support the accession date of 1 january 2007. this is a historic achievement by bulgaria and romania, and i should like to congratulate them warmly. the key to their success was a combination of their own efforts with the strong encouragement and support of all institutions of the union, not least of this house. their accession will mark the completion of the fifth round of enlargement. i am happy to inform you that the ratification procedures in all 27 parliaments have now been successfully finalised – i should add the european parliament to that list. the commission looks forward to welcoming bulgaria and romania as fully-fledged members of the european union on 1 january. bulgaria and romania have continued to make progress after the publication of the september report. bulgaria reported that border control and border management now benefit from increased cooperation between different offices, resulting in more arrests related to the smuggling of goods and human beings. cooperation between the prosecutor’s office and the police has improved, resulting in indictments and the dismantling of criminal groups. romania has made further progress in modernising its detention facilities and has launched a new awareness-raising campaign against corruption. official charges have been brought to parties involved in privatisations in the energy sector. so far, signs in other areas which were critical in september, such as aviation safety in bulgaria and motor vehicle insurance systems in both countries, are rather positive. final decisions on these issues will be made in december 2006 – very soon. in some other areas, specific measures have recently been taken to guarantee food safety on the internal market. products from pigs and live pigs are not allowed to be exported from bulgaria and romania to the internal market, due to the existence of classical swine fever. the lists of agri-food establishments which are allowed to produce only for the national market, for a maximum of three years, have been updated. the commission is setting up a mechanism for cooperation and verification of progress in the areas of judicial reform and the fight against corruption and organised crime. this mechanism will enable the commission to keep a close eye on developments in these very important areas. the commission has identified benchmarks for both countries, which they need to fulfil in these critical areas. preparations for the commission decision establishing the details of this mechanism are now advancing. it will be adopted before the end of 2006. it will allow the commission to be thoroughly informed about the further reforms and actions in these important areas. there is one issue that i know to be of particular importance to the european parliament: that of the application of safeguard measures. i can assure you that the commission will apply the appropriate safeguard measures if one of the countries fails to fulfil the benchmarks adequately. the commission can decide to apply the justice and home affairs safeguard measures at any time, if necessary. bulgaria and romania will certainly enrich the union without compromising the proper functioning of our common policies and institutions. i should like to thank you for your support – in particular the rapporteurs, mr van orden and mr moscovici, the committee on foreign affairs and parliament as a whole – and for your constructive, substantive approach over the past years for this important step for our common european project, which will now continue with two important new member states. (applause)
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. mr president, as the author of the opinion on romania's accession on behalf of the committee on women's rights, i would like to express our satisfaction that romania is evolving - we could say transforming - and that progress is evident everywhere. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities, and the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities. the authorities and society have recognised the importance of education, transparency, justice, protection of minorities, healthy child development and progress has been made in this direction, as the report informs us. the committee on women's rights welcomes the incorporation of a significant part of the community acquis on gender equality and encourages the government to continue in this direction and to work with both the administration and civil society to implement this acquis. we also consider it important to establish institutions such as the parliamentary committee on equality and the national equality agency and stress the need to ensure resources and the necessary and appropriate staff to operate them. we were particularly concerned about the phenomenon of violence against women, both in the family environment and in its consequences for sexual exploitation. we have also noted statistics which show that the phenomenon is worrying. and, here, let me make one clarification: the report we have just presented, in which you have set out an internal resolution in the relevant paragraph, refers to 800 000 women a year. i would like to make it clear that this is data given to us by organizations in romania for 2002-2003, for one year. it doesn't mean that every year there's this number of victims. in any case, the phenomenon is worrying and i believe that both the government and society will work towards this.
i would also like to congratulate bulgaria and romania on the great effort they have made to be ready to join the european union on 1 january 2007. we welcome these two countries to the european union! the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the act of accession - and in particular article 30 - which was ratified by the member states and their national parliaments, makes explicit reference to bulgaria's obligation to close its reactors by 31 december 2006. i would like to thank the bulgarian foreign minister for his statement in which he has made a genuine commitment to this commitment. the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is with the european parliament. the european parliament does not respect the democratic constitutional order of the member states and the decisions of the national parliaments. i therefore tabled, together with my colleague daniel con bendit, an amendment to amend paragraph 20 of the report on bulgaria.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the report by mrs lynne - whom i congratulate on her consistent and comprehensive work - sets out the basic principles which the european union and the member states' policy on disability must follow. i would like to make a special mention of ensuring accessibility for people with disabilities in the built environment. we must remove the barriers which prevent people with disabilities from participating in economic, social and cultural life. by excluding them from physical access to goods and services, we are not only marginalizing a significant part of the population but, at the same time, we are causing significant economic damage by excluding them from the labour market and economic life in general, pushing them into a subsidy policy that can only be harmful. furthermore, while i consider that co-education is a fundamental right of persons with disabilities, which contributes decisively to their smooth integration into society and to the fight against stigma and discrimination, we should not overlook the need to support specialised education infrastructures where they are needed. i would also like to stress the importance of mental health problems and the disabilities they cause and to underline the need to promote the mental health of the population. i would also like to mention and add that the establishment of a common definition of disability at european level will greatly facilitate the recognition of the common issues of people with disabilities for the adoption of policies at european level which will give greater added value to national social policies in an area which is still - to a significant extent - the responsibility of the member states. finally, i would like to make two points on behalf of my colleague, mr sifounakis, who was the author of the opinion, if i may, mr president: firstly, the commission must increase the participation of people with disabilities in the new multiannual programmes of the next financial period and secondly, there must be a corresponding improvement in sports venues.
in writing. the resolution highlights existing problems, proposing some practices to deal with the situation. but the inability to prevent and treat disease is maintained as a parameter of reproduction of poverty and impoverishment of the population in the least capitalist developed countries, for further exploitation, mainly of natural wealth. in addition, the huge spread of the disease in less developed countries is a source of global spread of the disease, with serious consequences for global public health. the real solution to the aids problem lies in solving this political and economic problem for the benefit of the people. the drug, the scientific knowledge and the technology that leads to its production, are social goods. we are opposed to measures to protect monopolies which prohibit or make it difficult for people to obtain the necessities of life. it is the duty of every state to protect the health of its people. we reject - denounce the replacement of public and permanent health services by ngos, the logic of voluntary contribution and individual responsibility, promoted internationally as the solution to public health problems. states without a health system should focus on the establishment of permanent public service infrastructures at all levels, with appropriate scientific staff and with primary health care as the main focus. they can also be supported by international funding, with management responsibility to the international health organisations and global cooperation-assistance at the scientific and practical level between states.
in writing. the eu is consciously covering up the class causes of the disabled's problems. many people would not be disabled today if there were health and safety measures in the workplaces and activities of entrepreneurs, if there were only free public health systems and rehabilitation centres, integrated into them without entrepreneurial activity. the commission is proposing to increase the number of people with disabilities who are unable to access health services, given the unpopular decisions of maastricht and lisbon. some of the individual measures seem positive. but they facilitate most privatizations, maximize the profitability of capital, by methodically eliminating resistance from disabled and popular movements. the obligation of the states to ensure that all disabled children are provided with schools, which are free of charge, employment with full rights for those who are able to work, special care and protection is not mentioned. the employment of the disabled is linked to benefit cuts, not to the right to work, to their protection. the conquests of the former socialist countries, which capitalism is taking back, are being hushed up. how many disabled people went to school then and how many are going now. how many worked on socialism and how many are working now. what the capital is interested in is the formation of an elite in the organizations of the disabled to manipulate them. the disabled have a stronger sense of belonging to society than the disabled. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. to strengthen the struggle against the politics of capital.
mr president, article 49 of the treaty on european union, which provides for a clause on accession to the european union, also defines the role of the union's institutions. according to that article, the council is the decisive body for the conduct of the negotiations. i have two questions to the house and to the commission: firstly, on what legal basis does the european commission negotiate the accession of candidate countries to the european union on behalf of the european union? secondly, is the european commission legitimate in formulating policy positions concerning the hard core of the eligibility or non-eligibility of a candidate country at intermediate but decisive stages of the negotiation process?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to refer to the tragic developments in the middle east and the urgent need for rapid and effective intervention. the region needs to be stabilised or at least prevented from deteriorating, which would have unforeseen consequences. europe is not absent from the region. it is present: through its diplomatic action, through its development and humanitarian aid, through its partnership in the mediterranean, through its participation in peacekeeping forces. the european union has not yet been able to play an effective role, and we must see this immediately, because our hopes that military interventions will bring about a new middle east with democracy and stabilization are not being fulfilled. we must therefore consider a new intervention, and i believe that the european parliament should promote the relevant dialogue with demands for an outcome that will have a positive impact on the well-being of the peoples of the region and of course on us, because everything that happens in our neighbourhood concerns us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 2 may 2006 the annual budget was tabled in the canadian parliament and it proposes a 100% tax reduction on canadian-produced wines and beers. this budget is under discussion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's wine and beer market is not affected by the introduction of the new rules. this is contrary to the principles of the wto. exports to canada are of particular importance to the european union. in particular, in 2005 the european union exported wines worth eur 446 million and beer worth eur 110 million. the commission must take a more active role and take the necessary action to compel the canadian government to implement its wto commitments. we have always applied what we have committed to the world trade organization. the other countries must do the same.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of debate recently about whether brussels or strasbourg should be the seat of the european parliament and the european union. it's both wrong. the city must be the seat of europe, and ultimately the decisions on the future of the european union are taken in ankara. this is the reality! when big countries like england came into europe, europe set the terms. now, in order for turkey to get in, turkey is putting conditions on europe. it can't have one, it doesn't recognize the 25th state, it wants one port, it wants two ports, and we all sit back and watch! will we not finally understand that this policy is reinforcing ankara's arrogance? can't we figure out he's the bad guy before he even gets in? imagine that tomorrow morning erdogan's turkey comes to europe with our vote! then he'll have us out of the way in no time.
mr president, today is the only day i can say what i want to say. today, 11 december, is the 60th anniversary of the founding of unicef and we celebrate world children's day. the declaration on the rights of the child and the convention on the rights of the child have been signed - although there are still states which have not signed - and the commission has already presented the strategy on the rights of the child at european level. we therefore hope for a coordinated action in the external and internal policies of the european union and for an effort by each member state to protect the rights of the child, who we see is not only endangered by poverty, illiteracy and conflicts in countries outside the union, but is also endangered within our own civilised countries by malicious attacks by individuals who have no collective responsibility.
mr president, what we are discussing has nothing to do with the original objective of reach. it is well known that hundreds of chemicals contribute to occupational diseases and deaths, but what has been promoted, after a bargaining of amendments and on unscientific grounds, is the interests of the businessmen of the chemical industry at the expense of the health of workers and the environment. essential points have been removed so that control and impact assessment is not required for 90% of chemicals. in essence, the regulation is left to be applied at will in accordance with the requirements of the undertakings. the agreement of the epp, the socialists and the liberals with the finnish presidency is a further step towards overcoming the contradictions and the rivalries in order to favour the profitability of big business. the margin for non-declaration is increased. the long-term consequences for workers and the environment are left unchecked and member states are prevented from imposing stricter regulations. at the same time, changes and replacements will be easier for the large ones, but not for the small and medium-sized enterprises which will not be able to meet the costs resulting from their downsizing. this facilitates concentration in the sector in favour of capital, which strengthens the position of eu monopolies in their international competition.
mr president, in the last few days the chemical industry lobby has been celebrating. he's achieved at least 90% of his goals. he made reach unrecognizable! the commission's original proposal has been left with very little. so yesterday's opponents became ardent supporters. the principle of substitution has been seriously undermined to the detriment of public health, the environment and workers in the chemical industry. the compromise reached today is a substantial endorsement by the socialists of the views of the european right and the chemical industry. it is far behind the commission's original proposal and what we voted on both at first reading and in the committee on the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. until yesterday, they were supporting and promoting other things. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. you managed to kill reach.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the two commissioners and parliament for having achieved an amazing record: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i was told by a journalist outside the chamber that so many lobbyists have never been in strasbourg. so i am not going to give my vote to help these lobbyists. they're throwing a party wednesday night after the vote. this is the reality! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and, if we look at it in terms of substance, who wins? only the big industries of the big countries are profiting. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am very concerned, mr president, about the letter that mr verheugen sent to mr barroso 25 days ago, in which he was invading mr deimas's territory. since then i've suspected that this thing wouldn't stand up to serious criticism. and he can't take it!
mr president, after several years of procedures and negotiations we are finally very close to adopting a regulation on chemicals. the regulation is not perfect, but it is very good. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to congratulate mr sacconi because the regulation essentially provides for the protection of human health and the environment, and it provides for it with a time increase, and i imagine that in the long term all the substances which cause the concern of most of the colleagues we are hearing today will be replaced over time. it is very good that the regulation provides for the control of dangerous substances where it can be done. it provides for substitution, which must happen, and for cases where there are no substitutes it provides for research projects, which is also very important. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the science of chemistry has done much to improve man's life on earth. and he did it through innovation. this is what the regulation now essentially requires in the long term. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the setting up of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, etc. i would like to congratulate mr sacconi again on having achieved a regulation on chemicals which should not be regarded as impatient. don't expect to see the perfect tomorrow! over time, we will see real improvements in both public health and the environment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after a long and extremely difficult process we are now faced with a result for the regulation on the registration, evaluation and authorization of chemicals. this regulation is a unique opportunity for all of us to achieve a high level of protection of public health and the environment, both for ourselves and for future generations. i would like to express my support for the result achieved by mr sacconi, to whom we owe warm congratulations. we would probably like to see stricter regulations or a wider scope of the regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's shipping industry is not compromised by the fact that the community is not able to provide the necessary information to the shipping industry. the adoption of reach will strengthen the existing legal framework for the control of hazardous chemicals in order to protect the health of european citizens, while enhancing the competitiveness of european industry through innovation and research to develop safer chemicals. reach is a new, realistic proposal which we must all support while continuing to work to improve it. to make reach greener and more left-wing, we must not send it back to the corridors where it has been for too many years.
mr president, i consider the speech of the previous speaker to have been very useful and certainly timely and i would like to endorse everything he said. but, in order not to stop at what he said, i would like to come to the main subject we have to discuss today, saying that technology, the lisbon strategy and the very logic of the single market require us to modernise the customs code. the delicate position of customs representatives and their particular professional nature make it necessary to lay down certain criteria for the proper exercise of their activities, without these incentives adversely affecting the internal market and the free movement of services. that's the problem we have to solve. we have therefore formulated article 11 of the new customs code in such a way that there is no restriction on the number of customs agents in a particular trade, that customs agents are recognised in all the member states of the european union and, of course, that there is free competition in the trade as a whole. on the other hand, however, a number of colleagues and myself have insisted that there should be a clearly defined criterion of practical standards or professional qualifications for persons wishing to practise the activity of customs agent. the commission has also proposed that the customs authorities should be given the opportunity to present their proposals to the council and the european parliament, and that the council should be able to take a decision on the matter. i therefore believe that the proposal tabled today by the european parliament strikes the right balance, mr president, and in this context i would like to thank mrs fourtou for her willingness to reach this useful compromise within the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that if we want to complete the single market, in accordance with the requirements of the lisbon strategy, and to become a significant competitive force on the world stage, we have no choice but to respond effectively to trade challenges and to adapt to rapid technological developments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's customs legislation is not subject to any form of controls. although our aim is to facilitate trade between member states while ensuring the safety and protection of european citizens, this would not be possible without the presence of customs representatives, i.e. qualified professionals with certified knowledge of the subject. i therefore consider it necessary to accredit this scheme to the appropriate persons with the most commonly accepted criteria. i believe that customs agents provide the necessary guarantees of knowledge and experience for the performance of customs operations and should therefore be considered as accredited customs agents. we must not forget that they exist as professionals in the vast majority of member states and carry out important work for the benefit of all economic operators, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, whose activity is vital for european development. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the modernisation of the customs code can in no way be equated with the deregulation of the labour market for serious professionals who have historically proven their effectiveness.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, i had the honour some eight years ago of being the rapporteur on the programme on the prevention of leisure-time injuries and i was really struck at the time by the huge number of these injuries, which showed that we have a very big problem. i would like to say that the report by mrs sinnott is very good and i have helped to make it so - also with my own amendments - that, if there is a community 'injury register' mechanism in the future, it will help to develop national prevention policies, because systematic data collection will also reveal the causes of injuries, that is to say the determinants of injuries. i think that the main areas - which the rapporteur has already mentioned - should be linked exclusively to the effectiveness of accident prevention, and i would say that we should concentrate in particular on the problem of the elderly, who constitute a large proportion of the victims, and look at the accidents resulting from violence against women - i believe that the number is quite large - and of course the accidents on the roads, that is, road accidents, and accidents in sport and accidents caused by products and services. in order to maximise efficiency and reduce costs, i consider it necessary to integrate existing programmes and infrastructures (databanks, etc.), because the commission already had programmes in this area, so there are facts which it should take into account when drawing up its proposal to parliament. the mechanism will collect data provided by member states on the basis of national injury monitoring systems, allowing easy access to information and good practices. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated. it is not easy to close, but we can create in the future a community data collection mechanism that will help us to effectively prevent these injuries.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it refers to the financial instrument for cooperation with the industrialised countries and territories. the debate on the establishment of this financial instrument is part of a wider problem which concerns, first, the harmonisation of the union's actions at home and abroad - in foro interno, in foro externo - and, second, the coherence of the union's external action as a whole, in political, economic and commercial terms. in particular, the proposed regulation brings together a heterogeneous group of countries as well as a wide range of activities in areas such as the economy, trade, research and scientific cooperation. the allocation of resources by sector of activity on the one hand, and by country or group of countries on the other, should reflect the union's strategic, political, economic and commercial objectives. ladies and gentlemen, speaking of the coherence of the union's external action, i would like to refer to the new trade policy strategy announced by the commissioner for international trade. as this strategy concerns the next steps with important trading partners of the union, is there a question of compatibility of the political priorities of the union? is the range of topics covered by the proposed financial instrument linked to internal policy choices of the union? the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament votes against the report on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the 'modernised customs code', because it opens wide the way for the invasion of large monopoly enterprises (especially transport) in the area of customs procedures. the institutionalisation of the 'authorised economic operator' in conjunction with the replacement of article 5 of regulation 2193/92 concerning customs agents will result in customs officers in greece and many eu member states losing their jobs by establishing monopolies in the area, to the detriment of the security of customs procedures. the new customs code is part of the lisbon strategy, which aims to maximise the return on capital. this policy, apart from destroying the workers' labour, wage, insurance and social rights, which are its main objective, has disastrous consequences for the self-employed and small and medium-sized businesses. the reactionary policy of the eu is directed against all the popular strata. it is now imperative to form an alliance of small and medium-sized professionals with the working class, a popular alliance that will put a stop to the ambitions of the monopolies and imperialism, and will claim its own power, to open the way to popular prosperity.
in writing. it is the right and duty of the farmer and the consumer to take care of their health and safety, to know the composition of each product, and of course of animal feed. we therefore agree with the amendments and the proposal to amend the directive on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs. it is true that business interests have taken the matter to the european court of justice on the grounds of 'serious damage to the financial interests of manufacturers' and the protection of intellectual property, in order to prevent them from being required to inform consumers of the composition of feedingstuffs, which helps farmers and consumers to make choices and to protect their health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products it produces is not affected by the use of pesticides. however, we must not be under the illusion that legal and other barriers can prevent the hygiene of the feed monopolies responsible for the dioxin scandals and spongiform encephalopathy in cattle, since the priority of the companies is profit rather than the protection of public health. as long as there are no adequate public control bodies and as long as the responsibility for controls is passed on to private individuals, we must be concerned about the protection of public health and safety in the food chain.
in writing. the 'financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide' is an open admission that it is institutionalizing, in the name of 'democracy and human rights', the right of the eu's imperialist interventions to the detriment of peoples all over the world. the commission's report goes even further in a vulgar, reactionary direction, stressing that it will be used 'without the consent of the government of the country for which it is intended' to provide ample money to the long arm of eu imperialist policy, to the variously named ngos and even to the unofficially 'registered in their country', i.e. to illegal organisations. it provides for "creating productive capacity for... independent civil society organizations", that is, training agents! the objectives of the convention include strengthening the icc and emergency international criminal tribunals. the eu is proclaiming itself the global watchdog of democracy and human rights, to be used as a 'trujan horse' to undermine the national and popular sovereignty of states that oppose its choices, to overthrow governments that are not to its liking. let the people draw their own conclusions! to intensify their struggle against this barbarous imperialist alliance of monopoly capital and to send to the dustbin of history the ambition of the imperialists to become a world policeman of the peoples!
in writing. a key rationale for 'preventing injury' is to invest in rewarding areas. they advocate reasonable cost-benefits over health. we disagree with the free market incentives that perpetuate the supposed effort to prevent injury. in the name of being all injuries, disparate events are offset, dealt with jointly in the framework of individual responsibility. the real causes of accidents are obscured and the strategy for preventing and responding to them is misguided. individual liability is highlighted as the main cause of injuries in order to conceal the employer's liability for accidents at work. the promotion of 'safe behaviour' does not mention the need to orient any prevention strategy towards the adoption of collective measures to protect safety in the workplace. it seeks to impose on the employee, directly or indirectly, the employer's obligation to pay the costs of preventing accidents at work. the ultimate aim is to promote further labour intensification and price suppression of labour. there is a significant responsibility of the state. to serve the free economy, it does not exercise substantive controls, it accepts criminal defects in projects by entrepreneurs, increasing the risk of accidents. the prevention of accidents must be systematically carried out by the state, with special attention to the real causes, and the recording and investigation bodies must be state-owned. the occupational accident insurance scheme and the creation of a state body of occupational doctors and safety technicians provide a systematic response to accidents at work.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the revised 'television without frontiers' directive is being put to the vote in the european parliament's plenary, with the hope that its approval will bring order to the lawless landscape of the most prominent mass media, television. the commission's task was not easy, much less that of the rapporteur, mrs hieronymi, whom i congratulate for all her efforts, and of all the colleagues who have contributed their utmost to bring this directive to its final stage. we'll know the result in a few hours tomorrow. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's citizens are not left behind. in a europe without frontiers, this directive harmonizes the general legal framework for the media, sets minimum standards and further protects the viewer, who is constantly being targeted from all sides. television is the medium which has the power to educate, to project, to inform, to entertain, to spread culture, to teach, to engage in dialogue with citizens. that's her role or at least that's the tv we want. a television of pluralism! open to all! a television without borders! the directive we are being asked to adopt, madam president, is intended to be understood and applied immediately. that is our main concern and our main endeavour. the council must be convinced that it has a duty to society and to the generations to come to respect the rules of respecting and harmonizing the directive in national law, as every civilized people deserves, as the 450 million citizens who are watching us demand.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am a firm believer in growth. in 2007, the community budget will be less than 1% of community gdp. is that an achievement to be proud of? some of my colleagues are proud. "at least we have succeeded", they say, "in imposing fiscal discipline". i'm sorry i can't share their sense of high achievement. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i do not want to be misunderstood, but i am a firm believer in the concept of budgetary discipline. if there's any waste, we have to cut it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not going to go into the details of the budget. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to take account of the needs of the citizens of the union, and that the european parliament is able to take account of the needs of the citizens of the union. but then no one will take us seriously in matters of discipline, nor will they take us seriously in matters of european integration. how are we going to lisbon like this? americans spend over 20% of their gdp on their federal budget, we spend less than 1%! how are we gonna compete with them? the truth is, we can't compete with them. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the union. the shortcomings of the finnish presidency, which we have experienced in the committee on budgets, have made matters worse. so i fear that collectively we are far below 1% of our potential as europeans. i am sorry to say this, colleagues, but i think we are on the wrong track.
mr president, after congratulating the rapporteur, mrs bachelot-narquin, on her work, i would like to say that the list of speakers today alone shows that the subject we are discussing is very important. it could not be otherwise, because globalisation, which is an unavoidable reality, also has negative effects on the economy. we have to deal with these effects, and i think the idea of the globalisation fund is dealing with them in a smart way, because instead of using new resources from the budget, we are using resources that have not been absorbed to deal with the adverse effects of globalisation. i am afraid that the implementation of the idea as proposed by the european commission would have problems and i am glad that parliament has dealt with them. i am referring in particular to the small countries which, because of their size, were in danger of being left out of the design of this fund, because the figures envisaged would not be able to cover even the largest enterprises in the smaller countries. the regulation that has been proposed finally addresses this issue and sends the message that the european parliament is equally interested in all the countries of the european union. the final formulation of the text is positive, at least for my country, greece, and i believe that overall the message we are sending to the citizens with the creation of this fund is positive. the european union is showing that it is sensitive to social problems and i believe that this strengthens the credibility of the union as a whole.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think you will agree with me that the globalisation which begins, i would say, with the appearance of man on earth takes the form of a natural phenomenon, that is to say, it is inevitable. in the present tense of the world, our goal, our vision, must be a globalization with a human face. the european union, because of its particular european history and culture, can make a major contribution to this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore fully agree with the aims of the fund and note as important elements, firstly, that all member states should have access to it and, secondly, that it should be dynamic and adapted to market conditions. the question is whether all member states can really benefit from the fund. the phenomenon of globalisation affects all countries, and perhaps more the small and weak ones, which, however, and because of their size, will never reach the thousand redundancies per sector. the adoption of the exemption, therefore, when a serious impact on employment and the local economy is documented, is a very positive step. but the 15% rate for strengthening these exceptions is, i think, a small one. i am, however, positive that the fund will be dynamic, which means that if needs so require, we will have a re-adjustment of this percentage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, there is no doubt that equal treatment for men and women and respect for the principle of equality in all aspects of public and private life will make it possible to manage the union's human resources better, so that they can contribute without hindrance to the development and competitiveness of its economy and to the raising of the living and cultural standards of its citizens. in particular, in order for women's participation in the labour market to be effective and at the same time to allow for the renewal of generations by the birth and rearing of children, it is necessary that women's rights be respected as fundamental human rights. in this context, both the council and the european parliament laid the foundations for the establishment of the institute for gender equality during the previous parliamentary term - you have very well emphasized this, commissioner - and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the initiative in this regard. since then, however, the debate on equality at european level has evolved into a global approach with horizontal applications in all policies and actions. the roadmap for equality and the directive on equal treatment for men and women in the labour market are examples. i would like to congratulate the co-rapporteurs, mrs sartori and mrs gröner, on the improvements they have made to the proposal for a regulation establishing the institute. in addition to promoting equality through research, collections, data analysis, promotion of good practice, we expect innovation in the concept of multidimensional monitoring of the consolidation of equal opportunities. the targeted actions proposed must respect national diversity and the principle of subsidiarity. the institute's administration shall ensure the representativeness of the member states in its activities. the quality of the expertise will hopefully guarantee the usefulness of the proposals and avoid overlapping the responsibilities of other bodies dealing with specific fundamental rights, such as health, safety at work and others. in conclusion, i would like to stress that, despite the progress made in the composition of the advisory body, the european parliament only during the ex post hearing of the director... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, it would be good if commissioner rehn, the commissioner responsible for enlargement, would first define the frontiers of europe for us. what is europe ? where does europe end? in istanbul, in diyarbakir or in baghdad? we don't know where the borders of europe are. already collecting signatures here in the hallway for israel to enter. why not palestine or morocco tomorrow? but will that be europe? let's get this straight. the european union is not a single market, but a single market in the world. everybody knows what's going on today. turkey is not joining europe today. europe is entering turkey and it is not europe that is setting the conditions, but turkey. let us also clarify the issue of the blockade of the northern part of cyprus: the blockade is not being imposed by europe or cyprus. it's being done by the occupation army. if the occupation army leaves then there is no problem. but here we are blind. we close our eyes. there's an occupying army in one of the 25 countries of europe and we pretend we don't know it. so this creates additional arrogance in turkey. if we want to be fair, we should demand that the occupying army leave and that turkey recognize all 25 countries, not just 24. if he had not recognised france or the united kingdom, mr president, would turkey have joined? of course not ! why would you do that? because cyprus is a small country? this is a great historical mistake on the part of europe.
mr president, i should like to congratulate mr brok and mr stub on their excellent work. i have the following observations to make: continuity of enlargement policy: it is important and must be extended in a coordinated way to the other western balkan countries, especially in view of the forthcoming developments in the kosovo issue. the european perspective and the enlargement policy are policies for peace and cooperation which we all seek. turkey: a decision was taken the day before yesterday which is in the right direction. but i would ask you, commissioner, to reconsider the idea of a timetable, because that would complement and improve the decision taken and would also help you to protect the credibility of the european union. the commission's communication is inadequate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore expect a new communication, more improved and more complete. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the procedures are starting again, the right approach is the step-by-step approach to the issues and problems that make it up, but this step-by-step approach has an expiry date.
mr president, i would like to make four points: first, there is a myth - because it is a myth - that enlargement and deepening are opposite situations. in fact, since the early 1980s, it is enlargement that has forced us to go deeper: structural funds, emu, greater cooperation to combat organised crime, immigration, world peace. that is why it must continue. the second point concerns, of course, the western balkans. i am glad that the procedure for their accession is not being questioned, nor should it be. thirdly, the history of absorption capacity or integration capacity, that is, the ability to absorb new countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's an obligation! the copenhagen criteria are an obligation for other countries. we are not watching as journalists or as statisticians whether or not there is such a possibility. we must shape it precisely to allow for successful new enlargements. the fourth point concerns turkey. i'm sorry about the bargain i've seen these past few days. the commission is talking about the need for 'strict conditionality', i.e. clear conditions, but in the case of turkey it is sending a contradictory message. it does not press for immediate implementation of its obligation under the protocol, it does not press for recognition of one of the 25 member states, cyprus, it is bargaining about whether to open one or two or three ports, it completely ignores the root of the problem which is a military occupation which violates all the european principles which we claim must be in place in order for enlargement to take place. i urge the commission to return to the roots of this effort: timetables, demands from turkey, for the benefit of turkey itself and the democrats in that country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully share the concerns of many european citizens who want the institutional problems to be solved before any further enlargement. it is inconceivable that we should wish to function satisfactorily with 27 members with rules that were in force when the union was composed of 9, 10 and 15 members. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. since then, the matter has been frozen. i am glad that the federal chancellor, mrs merckel, has expressed her intention to submit proposals on the procedure and timetable for resolving the problem. but i believe that at this stage we must seek to resolve a limited number of issues, which are important for the proper functioning of the union, such as the creation of a post of foreign minister and president of the union, the reduction of the number of commissioners, the increase in the powers of the european parliament, the reduction to a minimum of unanimity in the way decisions are taken in the council, legal personality for the european union, the abolition of the three pillar system, the strengthening of the institution of enhanced cooperation between member states and whatever else is deemed necessary for the effective functioning of the union. i am not saying that the european union should be a mere institution, but i am saying that it should be a political institution, a political institution, and that it should be a political institution, and i am saying that it should be a political institution, and i am saying that it should be a political institution, and i am saying that it should be a political institution, and i am saying that it should be a political institution, and i am saying that it should be a political institution, and i am saying that it should be a political institution, and i am saying that it should be a political institution, and i am saying that it should be a political institution, and i am saying that it should be a political institution, and i am saying that it should be a political institution, and i am saying that it should be a political institution, and i am saying that it should be a political institution.
mr president, in amendment no 17 tabled by the group of the party of european socialists, i would like to change the term 'northern cyprus' to 'turkish cypriot community'. i discussed it with mr swoboda this morning and i understand that he accepts it.
in writing. the european globalisation adjustment fund is a one-off charity fund designed to disorient and deceive workers. its aim is supposedly to help and support workers made redundant in a region affected by the relocation of firms, where capital seeks to maximise its profits by moving to countries where the price of labour is lower. the criteria set out in the regulation for its application are so narrow that a minimum number of workers will be eligible, since it is paid in areas where there are at least 1000 redundancies in a single undertaking due to the relocation of undertakings or at least 1000 redundancies in a 6 month period (or 12 months as proposed in the committee's report), representing 1% of employment in the region. it is only requested by the government of a member state and not by the workers or their trade union organisations and is paid by the government only. thus, workers are at the mercy of any government, which can use it selectively as a means of exerting pressure and blackmailing on workers, but also as a means of manipulating consciences and defusing workers' indignation.
in writing. the report on 'institutional aspects of the eu's capacity to integrate new members' confirms the firm commitment of the political voices of european capital in the european parliament to resurrect the reactionary euro-constitution, condemned by the european peoples. because of their ardent desire to bring new countries into the eu, they promote the most reactionary aspects of the euro-constitution (such as the complete abolition of unanimity, the strengthening of the role of the president of the commission, the introduction of the position of eu foreign minister, the simplification of the amendment of the treaties), as allegedly necessary reforms for the "more effective functioning of the union", meaning the unhindered ability of monopoly capital to promote capitalist restructuring, its anti-people, imperialist policy at the expense of the peoples of europe and the whole world. in defiance of the people's declared will to reject the euro-constitution, they call for an intensified campaign of 'brainwashing' of the people so that they are eventually forced to accept it, with the aim of promoting it by the end of 2008. the pressure, the blackmail, the vast operation of manipulation of consciences, reflect the deep concern of the political forces of the 'euro-path' with the growing questioning of the reactionary structure itself by the peoples. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the agenda includes the statements by the council and the commission on data protection.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has first of all focused on the work on the eu framework decision, and as i said in my opening speech, this work will continue during the german presidency. we have worked hard to get the framework decision, but unfortunately we will not have it ready by this autumn. as regards the exchange of information between the union and the united states and the current debate on this subject, it should be noted first of all that, of course, the member states agree with other states on matters within their sovereign competence as independent states, as they are allowed to agree, and the council does not have the power to intervene in all the bilateral relations of the member states and does not take a position on them. as regards in particular the union pnr agreement and its connection to the us ats system, as i said in my introduction, the compatibility of the ats with the pnr system is currently being examined. we have therefore asked and requested clarification from the united states on this compatibility and, most recently, at yesterday's meeting of the senior level group between the european union and the united states, we as the presidency expressed particular concern that the ats system might not comply with the provisions of the pnr convention and the undertakings. we have therefore drawn attention to this in many ways and are awaiting the united states' response to this report. as i said, when the answer comes and the debate proceeds, the european parliament will be informed of this development, and this was also stated by commissioner frattini in his own speech.
president of the council. i assume, mr president, that you wanted me to comment on this, although we have a council question time in two and a half hours this afternoon. i would point out that this compatibility between ats and pnr is now being investigated, and it should be borne in mind that when it is being investigated, there is also no evidence that they are not compatible. it is not automatically to be assumed that they are not compatible, but this is something that is being investigated.
president of the council. mr president, as i said, the most important thing at this stage is of course the response of the united states to the intelligence we have obtained with the commission. as regards the rest of the procedure, parliament has the possibility of putting questions to the council in another way.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the president's representative has just said, many questions will be answered when we receive a detailed reply to the letter we have sent together today. i would say that this is a specific request. i have no difficulty, if the presidency agrees and if there is a formal request from parliament, in making available a copy of the letter which has been sent to the american administration so that everyone can know the terms of our questions. i would also like to add that we are not investigating the united states. the united states is a sovereign country and the leading international ally in the fight against terrorism. we want to know whether an agreement is being respected or not. it is a very simple question and i hope we will have an answer very soon. as planned, the pnr will be tested before the end of december. if the agreements are not respected, we shall see when the deadlines have expired and so i think we shall also have the opportunity to evaluate this first test, which was confirmed in the agreement signed on 19 october. it is therefore clear, as mr in 't veld has said, that passengers must be given information, because it is a necessary information that has been established, and the pnr test that will be carried out is also intended to respond exactly to this commitment made by the american authorities. i believe that bilateral agreements between the united states and member states should be avoided and that member states should be persuaded to wait and cooperate with the european negotiation. it is clear that the strength of a european negotiation is far more adequate than the strength of individual member states. our chances of success as european negotiators will be all the greater the greater the political encouragement and support we have behind us. it is clear that the united states has an interest in having a strong political interlocutor, but not in having an interlocutor who regards it as a threat. i do not see the united states as a threat, so i will engage in a european negotiation which i believe is much better than national negotiations. i am also in favour of involving the european parliament and the american congress. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that if the european parliament and the american parliament jointly ask to be informed or in any case to cooperate with the work of the high-level group we have set up, they will receive my consent, but clearly i am not the only one in this high-level group. it would be useful, however, if the two parliaments, the european parliament and the united states parliament, worked together. all this should happen soon because if we want to negotiate a new agreement by the beginning of spring, we must ensure that the two parliaments are informed of our intentions by the end of february and the beginning of march. the last point concerns the negotiating mandate. i have said on several other occasions that i have no objection to informing parliament first of the draft negotiating mandate which the council will give us for the new pnr. it is not just up to me, but i believe that informing parliament is also a way of achieving a stronger political consensus when we go to negotiate with the american side.
the debate is closed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too will focus on the major issue of enlargement, which has been dominating again recently. first of all, it is clear that the european union must keep its promises. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. it is also clear that the european union's absorption capacity is a serious factor which should be taken into account by all members. no enlargement can take place if it adversely affects the union's cohesion and its effectiveness in formulating and implementing policies. this is not only in the interest of the european union but also of the applicant countries. in this context, and regardless of the sanctions to be imposed in the event of non-compliance, it is in the interest of all candidate countries not to show a stalling or permanent procrastination attitude in respect of the negotiating framework. the european union is setting this framework, not the member states themselves. the progress of the candidate countries in fulfilling their european obligations may be a painful process, but it is also a unique opportunity for their modernisation and should be treated as such. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is clear that no further enlargement of the union can be attempted unless this problem is first successfully solved, because a european union which is not functional is simply not capable of welcoming new member states.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many decisions taken by the european union have a direct or indirect impact on the lives of children. such acts include those relating to social protection, the labour market, health, justice and gender equality. family policy, reconciliation of work and family life and the promotion and maintenance of a good working life are also key to ensuring the well-being of children and families. these issues were among those discussed at the informal meeting of the ministers for labour, social affairs and health in early july. effective and early measures to eradicate poverty and social exclusion contribute to the well-being of children and families with children. the european council in march last year emphasised action to eradicate child poverty, and this was also discussed at the fifth round table conference on poverty and social exclusion in mid-october. the subject was also included in the member states' reports to the commission in september on their national strategies for social protection and social inclusion. balancing work and family life is a key challenge in a changing labour market. the well-being of children requires that both parents share responsibility for the daily life of the family. as the presidency, finland has raised the issue of fatherhood and the need for men to participate more equally in family life. the conference of experts on 'equality between men and women' was held in early october and the council adopted conclusions on the subject in december. the commission adopted a communication on children's rights during the finnish presidency. this has been discussed in the council in various working groups and in the l'europe de l'enfance permanent intergovernmental working group of high-level officials in the member states responsible for child and family policy. the council has worked actively during the finnish presidency on the proposal to establish the dafne 3 programme. the programme may also finance some of the actions set out in the communication on the rights of the child. the aim is to reach a joint decision by parliament and the council before the end of the year on this subject, on the basis of the political agreement reached by the council in december. finally, finland organised an open seminar on early childhood education in helsinki at the end of november. it can therefore be said that the council of ministers has been active during the finnish presidency in a number of policy areas closely related to the welfare of children. the presidency has also taken a number of important initiatives on children and families.
mr president, i should like to thank the honourable member for the information and the detailed presentation of all the activities of both the presidency and the commission. i hope that the next presidency will continue to make the same effort so that we can achieve results. i have nothing to add.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to welcome the political and interinstitutional agreement reached on a matter so important for road safety and legal certainty in europe, for free movement, for transparency, for the functioning of the single market. i consider our unification process a great success. the approximately 110 driving models crystallize the different traditions, the different practices in public administration in our countries, and managing to combine effective european harmonisation with respect for subsidiarity is a challenge and a continuous effort. i therefore believe that it is very important that we have a result which will be based on a uniform model of driving licence in the form of a credit card and that the old driving licences will be replaced within a reasonable period of time, so that the public authorities can adapt economically and bureaucratically. this effort is complemented and enhanced by the need for uniform models for training, for the inspection of trainers and will of course have even greater added value if it is complemented by the appropriate infrastructure, signalling and any kind of infrastructure that facilitates safety, including the quality of the roads. we believe that the european driving licence brings europe very close to the citizens and is a gamble we should not lose.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his resolute position in ensuring that conditions are created to prevent marine accidents with terrible consequences for marine pollution. it is a moral and political duty, both for the european union, its member states and the international organizations. for my country, greece, as two colleagues have mentioned, environmental protection is a particular objective, since it is a country with coasts, islands, a large tourist economy and aspires to become a transit centre in the eastern mediterranean, which means increased ship traffic and increased pollution and accident risks. this strategy is expressed both in the government's policy and in the huge investments of greek shipowners in modern ships. but at the same time, because of our large merchant fleet, we are also the country that has the greatest problems adapting to a new regulation, which departs from international conventions and inevitably leads to rapid changes with economic consequences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we therefore wish the regulation to take account, in terms of timetable, of the commercial activities in progress and the contractual commitments of oil tankers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there is a great responsibility for neonatologists. the training of staff, the coordination and coordination of member states, and the availability of ports of refuge play a major role. we will try, within the general objectives of the european union, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to combine in the best possible way the protection of the environment, the competitiveness of our european fleet and our economy.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rationalization of energy use and the integration of renewable sources into the union's energy mix are universal demands for the union. the union must therefore take all the necessary measures to implement the demand for a common european energy policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it is important to understand that the union could achieve up to 20% of the reduction in current energy consumption. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the crisis. this reduction can be achieved by the faithful application of the existing union legal framework. we have the necessary instruments today, namely the structural funds. for the next programming period 2007 to 2013, environmental policy should be promoted in the european regional development fund.
the green paper, mr president, is being promoted within the framework of the anti-people lisbon strategy and is providing yet another gift of new profitability to european union capital. the european union and the governments of the member states, even those with a national protectionist attitude, are privatising this strategic sector, sacrificing the needs of the people in favour of the profits of the private sector, that is, the large business groups and multinationals. liberalisation brings new profits to the businessman and increases prices at the expense of the consumer. the privatisation of cdf in france is an example. since the first quarter of its privatization, prices for households have increased by 15%. the same thing happened in greece and other countries. the environmental protection you are referring to is hypocritical. you're actually trying to cover up the acceleration of the release. the energy supply must be geared to meeting the needs of the people, reducing energy dependence, safeguarding the safety of the inhabitants, protecting the environment and, above all, securing energy as a social good and not as a commodity, and here is our strategic disagreement and difference: such needs are not encouraged in the green book! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. the kke group in the european parliament voted on the proposal to amend article 4 (3) of regulation (ec) no 417/2002, both when it was adopted by the committee on transport and tourism on 22 november 2006 and in the ep plenary on 14 december 2006, so that heavy oil transport is carried out exclusively by double-hulled oil tankers. the kke, together with the shipowners and workers in general, is consistently fighting against the anti-people policy of the eu and the governments of the member states, the shipowners and the capital, in order to take strict measures to strengthen the safety rules for oil tankers and in general for all categories of ships to protect human life at sea and the environment.
in writing. the committee's report on the financing programme for the 'prevention, preparedness and management of the consequences of terrorism' goes even further than the commission's proposal for a decision by adding the protection of vital infrastructure and 'continuous public action' to the objectives of the programme. it is part of the 'reformed eu action programme on terrorism', which focuses on preventing 'violent radicalisation' (!) and protecting the vital infrastructure of the member states and the eu. under this programme, ideological conceptions, positions and attitudes that challenge the "just and sacred" of capitalist barbarity, exploitation and its political systems fall within the concept of "terrorism", while "terrorist acts" can potentially be characterized as conquered and ordinary actions of the mass popular movement, such as symbolic occupations of buildings or streets that can be considered to endanger "vital infrastructure" or the unpredictable functioning of public services. the programmes and measures of european capital and its political representatives against the rights and freedoms of peoples, in the action of popular movements, show exactly their fear. they're not as powerful as they claim. the only time a people is invincible is when they decide to fight back and claim what is rightfully theirs.
in writing. the european return fund is another step in promoting the eu's anti-migration policy. it is part of the broader solidarity and management of migration flows financing programme, which is intended to provide financial support for the 'european fortress', with increased checks and 'rapid reaction forces' at the eu's external borders, a substantial abolition of asylum and refugee protection, and even more repression for economic migrants. the return fund is intended to strengthen the mechanisms for forcible return of 'illegal' migrants to their countries of origin, i.e. it is essentially a fund to facilitate mass deportations of economic migrants and refugees, exposing the hypocritical character of eu declarations on the social integration of migrants. the eu's immigration policy is based solely on the lisbon strategy, with the aim of increasing the profitability of european capital. this policy is shaping the reactionary institutional framework of the member states and the eu, which holds millions of migrants across the eu as illegal or semi-illegal, to hold them hostage to the harshest exploitation of capital with poorly paid, uninsured work, without basic labour rights and excluding them from access to basic social and political rights.
in writing. the kke does not recognise or participate in the procedures of the so-called sakharov prize, which is supposedly given for freedom of thought, but in fact serves the political and ideological objectives of the eu. the european parliament considers "freedom of thought" primarily those who embrace and serve imperialism, which is why it primarily rewards "personalities" or "organisations" that promote imperialist barbarity. such an award has been given to cuban counter-revolutionaries, and in 2006 to us-nato-eu parliamentary candidate milinkeyevich, who won the "amazing" 6% in the last elections, backed by a million-euro eu bailout. we consider unacceptable the resolution which is a provocative intervention in the internal affairs of cuba, since it decides to send a parliament delegation to cuba, ignoring the government of the country which enjoys popular support and is fighting heroically against the embargo and the subversive actions of imperialism. we express our solidarity with cuba, which is defending and building socialism despite the imperialists' frantic attempts to overthrow it. the political groups in the european parliament, including the majority of the gue, have enormous political responsibilities as they try to create the conditions to justify the open or secret war waged against the cuban revolution. the defence of the constitution is the duty not only of communists but of every progressive man.
in writing. the proposal for a recommendation reflects the european parliament's fundamental refusal to protect even the minimum of fundamental human rights. after previously voting in favour of the schengen convention, its advanced form, the sis ii information system, while accepting the vis, which legitimizes the collection, processing and exchange of personal data concerning even the political, ideological, philosophical, religious and other views of every eu citizen and the introduction of biometric data and data linked to dna, the political forces of capital now seem to be concerned because the council is heading towards a decision which will not guarantee a 'high level of protection' of personal data. the european parliament, which has already accepted the possibility of transferring personal data to police and intelligence services in third countries, as in the eu-us agreement on the transfer of personal data of europeans travelling by air to the us (pnr), and has agreed to the possibility of transferring personal data even to private individuals (!), now calls on the council to ensure the protection of personal data, but taking into account 'the specific nature of the work of police and judicial authorities'. the hypocritical recommendations of the european parliament cannot hide its full alignment with the policy of legitimizing the surveillance and 'covering' of european citizens.
