mr. president, i have to ask you... the european parliament's political groups discussed the european council decision of 16 december 2005. the various political factions rejected their criticism, which was in many respects well founded. at the same time, i would like to warn the european parliament not to throw bathing water on a child. for the ten new member states, there were a number of positive agreements on the rules for the use of the aid. what we have not been able to agree on in the european parliament: the issue of non-refundable vat, the application of the n+3 rule to the cohesion funds, the possibility of ppps, the involvement of private funds, the possibility of support for housing renovation, all of these are extremely important for the new member states and it would be very important that the interests of the new member states are not harmed during the parliamentary debate.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to express my appreciation to the rapporteur, mr el khadraoui, for his extremely thorough work. its report was accepted as a suitable compromise by the committee on transport and tourism. i therefore express the opinion, on behalf of myself and the group of the european people's party, that this is in line with parliament's position. in laying down the general principles, we have rightly emphasised that, in accordance with the court's ruling, in a matter falling within community competence, it is necessary to exclude pragmatically any discrimination between partners within the community and, where possible, to conclude 'open skies' agreements. this dual approach already allows existing bilateral agreements to be harmonised. however, the question remains how to allocate the flight numbers currently being negotiated with foreign partners among the member states in the case of limited flight numbers. the commission should present parliament with a specific paper on this sensitive issue shortly. i also regard the approach of the commission and the parliament to the need for greater technical harmonisation with external partners as an important principle. this is a way of helping to ensure aviation safety, which is a cornerstone of our foreign policy, and also of helping to ensure that environmental and competition considerations are respected. i do not agree with those who want to extend european social rights, or in particular national social rights, to contracts with third countries and to aircraft flying the flags of other nations. they shall comply only with labour law, safety and competition rules of international relevance. more of this would only add to the unnecessary anti-eu sentiment within the eu itself, under the cover of non-existent social dumping. i also reject the idea of taxing aviation for environmental reasons, since there is no binding international regulation on this subject and this sector of competition must be supported by its own revenues, including those from airports. the best way to protect the environment is to ensure technological security, not to impose new taxes. it was only in the framework of the compromise that we accepted the reference to the inclusion of aviation in the air pollution trading regime, but there can be no question of direct taxation. as a new member state, it is particularly important that priority be given to the neighbouring regions, the balkans and the major market partners: china, the usa and russia. finally, i would say that in order to ensure the transparency of the negotiations, parliament must be continuously involved in the negotiations.
the rapporteur is the international trade committee. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the international trade committee has made a recommendation to the draft report under consideration. there were three main elements to this. the first element said that the committee was proposing a moderate price reduction. we have proposed that the european union should restrict imports more effectively and that european union sugar farmers should be more compensated. these proposals are substantially more favourable to the european sugar sector than the one put forward by the european commission. unfortunately, the decision taken by the european council of agriculture ministers in november is extremely disappointing, because it does not take adequate account of the interests of european agriculture and indeed it is questionable whether a stable sugar market in the european union can be created as a result of this decision. today parliament can only hope for a small change, but we are very determined on some details. we want to see, for example, that the sugar beet growers get not just 10% of the restructuring fund, but as much as 50%. i would like to point out that the committee has considered it extremely important that we restrict imports effectively. for example, the united states also restricts preferential imports. if the americans do not allow fraud, then the european union should not allow it either, because it undermines the international authority of the union and it is a very senseless and unjust system in which we restrict european union producers to quotas while allowing importers to supply the union's markets without restrictions.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the council's decision is brutal for the european sugar industry, and therefore for the hungarian sugar industry, and cannot be accepted. the european parliament cannot allow the european sugar industry to be decapitated. if this brutal council regulation is maintained, in 15 years only two eu member states will be producing sugar, france and germany. this would not have happened if the excellent, thorough and balanced report by rapporteur jean-claude fruteau had been accepted, but the commission's version proposed by mrs fischer boel would also be much better for european sugar producers. the european parliament's position is that the price reduction should be lower than the council decision, at 30%, while the compensation should be higher, possibly at 100%. it is also important that the transitional period should not exceed four years. the attachment of area-based payments to partial production should be included among the conditions. i'll get a female officer for that. a more moderate price reduction, together with the conditions mentioned, would give the sugar beet production and the sugar industry in hungary, and thus those in the middle, a better chance of survival. unfortunately, the five hungarian sugar factories are all foreign-owned, in the hands of french, german and austrian sugar beet growers, who may choose to concentrate their production in their own countries. this is a threat to a country with an average european economy like hungary. so i ask my fellow members to correct the council's wrong decision.
mr president, the role of the århus convention is to promote public control on environmental issues. in this way it helps to make our societies more environmentally conscious and encourages ngos to be active in environmental policy. the most important part of the convention is public participation in the decision-making process. member states were not brave enough to accept the entire concept of the convention. however, that is the way forward. we politicians will be judged by our voters on the state of the environment and on a sustainable future, and not on empty promises. i have tabled an amendment along with other colleagues, which is the 23rd one on this matter. some members of this house oppose it. nevertheless, the amendment is only a retabling of the commission’s original words. it says that if an internal review concludes that there is a contradiction with environmental law, then the body concerned should take a decision to eliminate the problem. i think that is quite obvious. if we realise there is an environmental problem and we do not do anything about it, then the whole process is senseless. by the way, all member states – and i mean all – signed the original convention, which contains this idea. the pse group is working in general, and in this particular case, for a clean environment and for public participation in the decision-making process. that is why we support this report in the form that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety adopted it.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, some five years ago the cyanide pollution of the river tisza caused by a gold mine in baia mare, romania, showed us hungarians how dangerous mining waste can be. at that time my country was not a member of the european union. still the commission and the european parliament understood the problem and initiated a directive on the management of such waste. mr sjöstedt went to the site of the pollution, studied the facts, heard all the witnesses and experts, and then drew up an excellent report. that is what i call a good and responsible job of a politician. his report is based on real facts, on real dangers, and provides us with real solutions. thank you, mr sjöstedt. the pse group supported the report from the beginning. at second reading, together with other colleagues, i tabled many amendments for stricter regulation. most of them were accepted by the rapporteur and later by the conciliation committee. on water pollution issues, we tried to ensure compliance with other community obligations, most of which were imposed under the water framework directive. the compromise reached by conciliation is not ideal, but it is acceptable. the financial guarantees must be sufficient to cover the cost of the rehabilitation of the land affected by the waste facility. this is a success for us. we are also satisfied with clarification of the closure operation. however, we lost an important battle. we socialist meps wanted the discharge of waste to any receiving body of water to be authorised before the operation. for me, prevention is the most environmentally friendly solution. perhaps later everybody will understand this principle, not only in this house, but in the whole of europe. in general we obtained a good directive. member states, would-be member states and third countries should respect the new regulatory framework. we have to monitor the strict implementation of this directive.
mr. president, i have to ask you... many people, many times, criticize the union and its parliament for making laws that are unnecessary or at least not absolutely necessary. no one will argue with the directive before us. on the contrary, we have succeeded in creating a regulation that is a pioneer and a milestone in an international sense. this regulation was created following the disaster at the large mine in romania in 2000 in order to prevent similar environmental and natural pollution from occurring again. when trouble comes, all we can do is save damage, and mitigate and reverse damage, but -- as we've seen in this case -- with little success. nature has been destroyed, and all the lawsuits for damages have not been settled, and are barely moving forward. the directive before us therefore puts the emphasis on prevention, which is always the key to securing our future and avoiding environmental disasters caused by human negligence. but it does not only tell us about future mines and their waste, but also about old, abandoned mines and those that are still operating, often in a deplorable state of repair. as a member of the parliamentary conciliation committee, i would like to thank the trio of lawyers involved in the trial, sjöstedt, roth-behrendt and florenz. on behalf of hungary, i would like to thank you in particular for your sympathy with my concern and proposal, and for the fact that we have succeeded in obtaining that the acceding countries of romania and bulgaria do not request a temporary exemption from the introduction of the directive, as is shown by their attached declaration. the eastern carpathians are rich in treasures, and their extraction is an important economic basis for the region's development. however, this can only be done in a sustainable way, taking the best possible account of the interests of the environment and nature. that's what this directive is about, and that's what it promotes. i'm glad to have been a part of, to have been a creator of this important piece of legislation for our common future.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, as a hungarian member of the socialist group i am satisfied with the outcome of conciliation on the bathing water directive. we have had extensive debates both in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and later in the conciliation committee. it was not easy to make clear that we cannot apply the same criteria to inland and coastal waters and lakes – such as lake balaton in hungary – as we apply to the atlantic ocean. that does not mean that we do not want to have strict rules as regards our inland waterways. however, lakes and oceans are obviously different. landlocked countries such as hungary and austria should have a right to their own bathing water as well. the area around hungary’s bathing lakes is subject to a ban on certain industrial and agricultural activities, and the sewage system covers almost 100% of households. we can improve many things, but we cannot turn a lake into an ocean. the present compromise is acceptable to us but means a lot of work for my country: some beaches will be closed and many others should be improved, but that is the cost of a clean and healthy environment. the compromise on a stricter version of the category ‘sufficient’ is to be welcomed. public information on water quality at bathing sites is also very important. indeed, on all beaches around lake balaton there are huge information signs written in hungarian, english, german and russian. of course, we could add french, hoping that more tourists will come from france and other french-speaking countries. in my last speech, at second reading, i had a rather tough tone, due to the one-minute limit and the speed of a heavy debate. now i should like to thank mr maaten for his report and readiness for constructive compromise. he did a good job. i hope, when i welcome him to hungary, that he will be able to see how clean and sweet our lake balaton is.
mr. president, i have to ask you... as for the 2007-2013 budget, please do everything as the chancellor of the neighboring state to have the interinstitutional agreement because the new member states have no time to waste. we will lose two thirds of our funding if we do not have the seven-year budget plan, and if we delay this plan any longer, we will not be able to prepare for the cohesion and structural major projects. we believe that a better budget is very important, but we want to preserve all the positive aspects that the new member states received in december as a major opportunity to use the structural and cohesion funds. as for the constitution, this was the first enlargement where deepening did not precede enlargement. the constitution is essential for deepening, and hungary can count on it; two states cannot block 23 others. as regards the competitiveness of the union, it is essential to open up the services directive and the free movement of labour. unemployment in ireland did not rise, but fell after it was liberalised. finally, as a hungarian, i am very glad that you are dealing with the balkans, because there is a great danger that if the european union does not resolve the status of montenegro and kosovo, there will be destabilization in the western balkans, because the americans do not understand minority issues. at the same time, i would like to repeat as chairman of the minority intergroup what hannes swoboda said, i am waiting for the president's answer on the slovene in austria.
mr president, most continents take a few billion years to develop. the 'continental first bank' started in 1997 with 60 000 customers and has now grown to 12.5 million people in austria, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, croatia and slovenia. i just read that in an ad. tisztelt elnök úr! what are you doing? austria is facing a re-establishment with unique opportunities, and this can only be congratulated. however, austria is one of the member states that is most likely to have to do more before enlargement can take place, so that the chances of enlargement in 2004 are reduced. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security. in order to do this, it is necessary to ensure that the european union is able to take part in the european integration process. the law on persons or services is called "legyen szó a personas vagy szolgáltatások szabad áramlásáról". on the contrary, the academy is the common square of our needs. the first is the 2004 accession of the czech republic to the eu. it is expected that the austrian government will take the initiative, together with the national government, to create a number of monasteries to be built and strengthened. the law on the regulation of the competition framework programme. it is also necessary to ensure that parliament's budget is kept in good order. the use of the money is not available. i cannot accept that there are any academic regulations which make it difficult to use the time or skills that are available. a cel nem év végén a visszafizetés, hanem a felhasználás. a cell is a building which is used for the construction of buildings. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the commission has also proposed that the council of ministers should be consulted on the draft budget.
mr. president, i have to ask you... although the minority is always much louder, many of us here in parliament believe that a constitutional treaty is necessary for the proper functioning of the union. in particular, greater transparency and an increased role for parliament to monitor the protection of minority rights in europe. the crisis that has arisen, however, is not mainly due to the constitution, which provides a better framework for the future functioning of the union, but to the fact that the union's performance is inadequate and unconvincing in the eyes of many citizens. the institutions and elites that run the union have lost the trust of some of its citizens. i agree with the european commission's opinion and, as i said in my adopted amendment, it is important that the reflection period should also be about how to regain the trust of the european union's citizens. we believe that to succeed, we must also have a debate on how the european union can improve its performance and contribute to solving people's real problems. the constitutional treaty, or its most important parts, must be preserved. but we must know that the trust of europe's citizens cannot be won back by complicated texts, but by the union's performance, jobs, economic growth and the effective representation of europe's common interests in the world. and if we regain the trust of the people, they will support the constitutional treaty.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the sme charter is an important and necessary political statement of intent, but little more than that. the open method of coordination proposed to achieve its objectives is flexible, which can be both an advantage and a disadvantage. i agree with the rapporteur and the commissioner. we must support smes not only with our intentions but also with our binding regulations at both european and national level. it is very important that the charter and the programmes running alongside it, sometimes too far apart, should not only be about smes but also address smes. beyond principles, information and support solutions that are pragmatic, understandable and can be delivered to the home are needed. otherwise, we'll never get to the tens of thousands of contractors who don't have the time or the capacity to investigate. at the same time, it should be borne in mind that sme policy is not a specific, separate subject, but one of the horizontal pillars. once we know that the vast majority of our economic enterprises are smes, we must also be aware that the only lasting structural solution for implementing cohesion policy, reducing unemployment, increasing competitiveness and economic growth, rural development, research and development or innovation is to build on our own smes. this is a foundation that must not be neglected. so i ask that we do not put the charter in the drawer at the end of the debate, but that everyone puts it on their desk as a reminder that we know how far we still have to go before we can count small businesses in europe as a success.
progress in promoting smes has been achieved in the new member states, mainly in: education for entrepreneurship, better regulation and skills shortages. concrete actions to foster smes friendly environment are the cornerstone for achieving union's objectives of growth and employment. bets-practices suggest that the new member states should focus on setting up systems to monitor skills gaps; developing policies to address bankruptcy and competition laws; adapting smes friendly taxation systems; using impact assessments for developing better regulation and fostering innovation and technological capacities. it is therefore necessary that the sme dimension is further integrated within the other policies of the union through increased consultation and better representation of the smes at national and community levels. addressing this report is also the opportunity to welcome the jaspers and jeremy initiatives that will certainly play an important role in developing more effective smes friendly environment within the union. i also welcome the geographical expansion of the objectives of the charter to the enlarged eu, the candidate countries, the western balkans, moldova and the mediterranean partners. finally, i support the rapporteur when calling for a wider consistent overview and for more systematic and critical review of the situation in future reports.
mr president, in the third millennium, a woman has to have the opportunity to decide whether she wants to work or stay at home. if she chooses to work, she has to be judged according to her performance, not according to her sex. women hold the key to achieving the lisbon strategy’s overarching goal of creating more growth and jobs in the european union. increasing the participation of women in the labour market must be a top priority for the eu. higher participation rates for women will help tackle europe’s demographic challenges, as well as increasing growth and productivity. however, these advances must go hand-in-hand with greater gender equality in the labour market. discrimination against women, occupational segregation and pregnancy discrimination exists on a large scale. moreover, the gender pay gap persists across europe. it currently stands at 15% for full-time jobs, but is as high as 40% for part-time jobs. the pse group believes in targeted actions to help promote the employment of the most vulnerable groups of our societies, namely older women, those belonging to ethnic minorities and women with disabilities. the development of a knowledge-based society makes high demands on the educational level of the labour force. girls are outperforming boys at school and more women than men participate in adult education and training. we must make better use of this potential and there must be a lifelong approach to ensuring gender equality from education through to career development and adequate pensions for women. we need to fight for a gender-equal society which is fit for the 21st century and forms an integral part of our european social model. some progress has been made in recent years, but there is still so much to do. the onus for achieving the overarching goals of the lisbon strategy ultimately lies with member states, which must urgently take up their responsibilities to ensure these ambitious goals are made a reality.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i voted in favour of the report on the european neighbourhood policy. the european union is not a fortress, the european union is not an island. we need good neighbours, cooperative partner states. the more peaceful, stable, prosperous countries we have nearby, the more secure we can be. i have asked to speak because i believe that the good neighbour policy is much more important than the european union currently understands it. in our current thinking, forced expansion is a much more serious issue than neighborhood policy. some countries will never be members of the union, others will receive vague promises, and still others will be considered by others to be among the privileged. i believe it would be wiser to develop a kind of special partnership status and deepen the neighbourhood policy. instead of admitting some countries and punishing others, we should think in general about a good neighbour policy.
"tyrants fear the practitioners of freedom above all", said josé martín, a hero of the cuban independence movement in the 19th century. we can add that the dictatorship is not only afraid of its own opposition but also of foreign practitioners of freedom. we have a particularly great responsibility, therefore, as representatives of the european democracies, when we are discussing one of the last communist regimes. as a personal reflection, i would like to add that as a young hungarian politician, i feel a special responsibility because my generation was raised by our parents and grandparents against the socialist dictatorship that once existed in cuba. we owe it to them to stand up for our principles. it is now clear that last year's lifting of the coercive measures against cuba did not produce the desired result, but only prompted the cuban government to step up repression. arrests are ongoing, with some 30 opposition activists imprisoned in 2005, bringing the number of those detained, often in inhumane conditions, for their political views to over 300. so the portrayal of an operetta dictatorship and the jovial salon revolutionary who leads it is false. foreign observers are not allowed to enter the country, as i have experienced in my own life. last year, i, along with several other meps, was denied a visa to attend an opposition meeting. if we didn't know it then, we'll learn it now: dictatorship - whether right-wing or left-wing - is not about compromise. for this reason, we cannot support the suspension of the restrictive measures. the lesson of history is clear: the opposition movements of the former socialist bloc could not have achieved their goal without the impetus of the democracies of western europe. now it is the turn of a reunited europe to give strength to all those who represent the values of democracy in the shadow of dictatorship.
on behalf of the pse group. as chair of the committee on budgetary control and as one of the representatives of the new member states, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss the issue of the national voucher with the commission and the council. i very much hope that as a result of this debate, we will not only receive a prepared statement from secretary of state winkler, but also concrete answers to the questions that terence wynn and we have put forward. we very much hope that this will be the case, as the european parliament has a political responsibility to ensure that eu citizens are able to use eu funds in a lawful and orderly way. since the european court of auditors cannot issue a positive statement of assurance (saa) due to the lack of national supporting statements, the public has a negative opinion that eu funds are not used transparently and regularly. that is why the introduction of the national declaration of assurance was called for in a report drawn up by my colleague, mr terence wynn, during the discharge procedure last year, and supported by a large majority in parliament, as confirmed by the böge report on the financial perspective of the european union. we are also very pleased that this has been included in the roadmap for an integrated internal control framework announced by the european commission, personally by vice-president siim kallas. this reform between parliament, the commission and the court of auditors is based on mutual trust and close cooperation, but we also need the support of the council and the presidency, because there is still resistance from some countries to the introduction of national declarations of assurance. as the representative of hungary, i would also like to draw attention to the fact that the new member states were not only prepared to adopt the acquis communautaire and the suspension funds, but were also aware that their payment and control systems had to be set up in accordance with the principles of legality, regularity and regularity. they would therefore have no difficulty in meeting the expectations of the european parliament and the commission, as this would serve a more efficient, but at the same time more orderly and transparent europe.
french prime minister dominique de villepin, at the davos world economic forum, cited enlargement as the reason for europe's bad mood. the french prime minister said that the inclusion of the 10 new member states made decision-making more difficult, and that the inclusion of eastern european countries was often seen as too heavy a financial burden on the western half of the continent. prime minister villepin's statement is outrageous and unacceptable. the prime minister of france, the founding country of the european union, seems to be unaware of the basic processes. the crisis of the union, which is in a really difficult situation, was not caused by the new member states, but on the contrary. the cost of enlargement is 20 euros a year for a citizen of the old member states, so it is incomprehensible that prime minister villepin remarks that the financial burden is excessive. and france's stagnation started in the mid-'90s. it is regrettable that president borrell, who was present, did not protect the new member states. we should not be emissaries for the current crisis in france.
the initiation reported by mrs estrela on equality between men and women in the eu has a crucial role in the horizontal way of handling equality matters. the aim was common to present the second annual report on equality and the first to cover the enlarged eu of 25 member states. i am strongly convinced that measurable results could be worked out only with systematic work. an important message of the initiation is that each year an annual report will be presented. the report mentions the strategic guidelines of the equality policy. i would like to emphasise two of the most relevant fields that should be ensured for all: decent work and equal pay for equal job. my opinion is women hold the key to achieving the lisbon strategy’s overarching goal of creating more growth and jobs in the european union. the primary task an increase in affordable childcare, following the good example set by sweden and denmark. it is focused by the pse group’s growth and investment strategy, agreed by social democratic governments across europe. last but not least we could achieve the above-mentioned results only with the active participation of men in gender equality.
i voted with a high feeling for the law on working conditions for road transport workers. i am glad that drivers are given guaranteed rest periods and i think it is important to check that. however, i would like to emphasise that the growth in road transport is contrary to the principle of sustainable development. wasteful energy use, severe air pollution, and destruction of roads and the environment are the direct consequences of the increase in truck traffic. the european union should therefore seek to develop alternative modes of transport. in addition to improving the working conditions of drivers, we should also address those who live in communities where trucks are rushing through day and night.
on 23 january, the directive on the legal status of third-country nationals legally residing in the union entered into force. they can then take up employment, study or settle in another eu member state. we, the socialists of the new member states, have always supported the integration of people from third countries. but we cannot accept that they should be placed in a better position on the labour market than workers in the new member states. the statistics on labour market movements after enlargement do not justify fears of social dumping. the commission report adopted on 8 february considers the positive impact of labour mobility to be decisive. the austrian presidency nevertheless advocated the extension of the restrictions. the european parliament's task is to ensure that all european citizens are represented. so i invite you to think together, my fellow members, to resolve this contradiction as soon as possible.
the international community faces a major challenge this year as negotiations on kosovo's status are about to begin. the stakes are high, and the future of the region will have a decisive impact on the situation in the western balkans as a whole, on its european perspective. it is obvious that kosovo is lost to serbia. not only because the majority of albanians, 90%, do not want to live there, but because several great powers, the united states, britain, support it. the european union has not yet formulated its position, although this would be very urgent. my question is, if the international community gives kosovo the right to secede, to independence, why does it get the whole territory, even the serb-inhabited parts? why would they rule out sharing in the first place? why are the albanians rewarded and the serbs punished? if kosovo's status is not resolved properly, it will be destabilized permanently...
poultry farming is the progressive and profitable sector of european livestock production. that's a claim that would have been unquestioned a few months ago. but unfortunately, after avian influenza, there is now a new threat to poultry farmers: the current regulations. the current draft regulation, which is designed to give greater weight to animal welfare considerations than to professional and economic arguments, threatens the competitiveness of the sector. yes, animal welfare aspects must also be taken into account. but we must not go too far and impose unrealistically strict rules that put our own farmers at a serious competitive disadvantage and endanger their livelihoods. these people don't want to torture their animals, they want to make a living doing what they know how to do. therefore, too strict rules are unacceptable. moreover, the planned excessive restrictions could also lead to serious tensions on the internal markets, as non-eu countries, such as brazil, which are not obliged to comply with these strict rules, bring their poultry products to the union markets at significantly lower prices. the majority of average consumers, at least in the new member states, choose the cheaper product because their income does not allow them to pay more for basic foodstuffs out of environmental awareness or animal welfare concerns. from a technical, economic and animal welfare point of view, a maximum live weight of 34 kilograms per square metre would be acceptable with a maximum value of 42 kilograms. values below this value are no longer acceptable. the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the existing measures to include the use of animal health certification schemes, such as the use of animal health certificates for the production of meat products. we should not make their job so difficult that they have to give up their poultry farming.
i congratulate my colleague, mr hökmark, on his useful report, since unfortunately the high levels of subsidies have not been reduced in the last few years. i agree that the procedure should also be simplified from an administrative point of view. i also want to strengthen the transparency of subsidies. i agree with the need for a clearer rule, particularly in the area of public services. it should also be clear who can receive state aid. therefore, the granting of aid should be accompanied by the publication of a detailed list of beneficiaries and the amount of aid received, in particular in the case of agricultural benefits. however, i would point out that while i agree that there should be no discrimination between regions or countries in terms of subsidies, it should also be noted that there are countries and regions which are significantly lagging behind in the internal market. these, however, need a longer period of adaptation, precisely in order to deepen the internal market. i would not consider it fortunate if the debate on state aid gave rise to political attacks on the new member states. these new member states have already significantly reduced their subsidies. these subsidies are not very high in terms of gdp and in terms of real comparability, in terms of euro/capita, they are below those of the more developed member states. this should also be taken into account when they are accused of dumping in other areas, for example. nor would it be good luck to link state and eu subsidies to the relocation of companies. in particular, if the new member states are still in a negative transitional situation in terms of structural funds or direct payments. the objective is to support, in addition to the regional aid defined, investments that create jobs in a fragmented region with a competitive disadvantage. the aim is not to introduce a concept that would lead investors to leave the union. therefore, maintaining well-targeted but moderate aid can be justified and useful without distorting competition. this is already provided for in the regional aid guidelines.
the rapporteur. globalisation has been a feature of europe's history. think of the spread of christianity, the discovery of the world, the scientific and industrial revolutions. europe has always found a progressive response to the challenges of globalisation. at the same time, we have always found that individuals are afraid and wary of new changes. this was always the case when the change ultimately benefited europe and the people of europe. today is no different. at the beginning of the 21st century, the rapid democratization of different continents and the information technology revolution have made us realize that the transformation of the world is irreversible, and that global competition will survive in the long term. the question now is how europe can respond to this situation in a way that makes its citizens the winners of the 21st century. i am particularly pleased that the members of the imco committee shared this view. the debate was constructive, thought-provoking and made it clear that we cannot be closed off. not only because in the world of the internet, of the minute-by-minute changing conditions, it's physically impossible to try something like this, but also because it would mean giving up the competition and leaving us behind. with regard to the resolution before you, i would like to point out that, as this is an own-initiative report, it is very important that we use the instruments at our disposal, but we cannot go beyond the issue of globalisation and the internal market, which is mentioned in the title. european political, economic and civil actors must recognise that the continent's outstanding social achievements can only be sustained through economic growth and employment growth. to do this, we need to make europe the best possible choice for large multinational companies in global competition. to provide a safe starting point and a stable background for large european companies and to provide opportunities for our small and medium-sized enterprises to grow and prosper. in this endeavour, european legislation undoubtedly has a great responsibility, including us here in the european parliament. in some over-regulated sectors we obviously need less, better and more effective legislation, while in other areas we need to do the opposite, to be able to correct certain critical deficiencies, to create certain legal frameworks. i'm thinking very specifically about creating knowledge, preserving it, turning it into sustainable economic advantage. this is a multifaceted, horizontal endeavour, which means supporting and encouraging research and innovation, modernising education and protecting intellectual property rights. otherwise, it is useless to refer to the knowledge-based society and economy in the lisbon strategy, the wim kok report or any other european parliament resolution. and last but not least, let me say that europe can only be strong and competitive in the face of global challenges if we do not weaken our own unity from within. we need a dynamic internal market and a single european area in which eu citizens are not only free to travel, but also free to work and use their knowledge across europe for the benefit of europe. i have tried to contribute to this in my report. thank you for all the work you've done. i thank the commission for its help and i thank all of you for your support, which i would like to emphasize again, for the amendments and proposals you have put forward.
on behalf of the pse group. when we talk about consumer protection, business support or the dissemination and enforcement of eu law in general, we always mention efficiency and practicality as important goals. solvit is the system that can be used as a model for achieving these objectives. solvit is showing its citizens a europe with a human face. as we heard, in 2004, the system solved 300 cases. that's a lot to take in, considering that there are five senior staffers working in the office and they're solving six problems a week. but when you consider that the union has 450 million inhabitants, 300 complaints is not that many. just think, if the 732 mps who complain to your office were to complain to the office at least once, it would create an insoluble problem. this may be due to the fact that there are few complaints, but more so because few people are aware of the system today, and we can expect that as the years go by and the reputation of the institution grows, more and more people will want to enforce their consumer protection rights in solvit. this means that the work on solvit will increase as the system becomes more popular, will be made more difficult by the increasing integration of the internal market and will grow as consumer culture spreads. so it's worth thinking now about how to set up the system to handle 500, 1,000 or even more requests per year in five to 10 years in an efficient, fast and pragmatic way. this will require adequate human and financial resources. we need to develop the framework and tools for administrative cooperation to be as effective as possible. and we also have to think about how this very efficient, user-friendly european service can become an equally efficient european consumer, entrepreneurial, citizen reflex. we have to think that whatever we decide on the services directive on thursday, it is quite certain that the solvit system will be used in the services sector. we would therefore encourage you, commissioner, to support the strengthening of solvit and to do everything possible to make it work.
the rapporteur. let me briefly summarise the main stages of this complex legislative process, which has now resulted in the optical radiation directive being discussed at third reading. the starting point was the framework directive 89/391/eec, which comprehensively regulated the whole field of safety and health at work and created the legal framework for a uniform approach to all possible risks at work. article 16 of the framework directive provides that specific directives are to be drawn up to deal with the different types of risks. they are necessary because they allow the general provisions of the framework directive to be more effectively specified in the context of specific situations. it is also in the interests of workers and employers to specify the content of general obligations according to specific types of risk, as this makes eu legislation applicable in practice, creates competitiveness neutrality and guarantees greater security. if the content of the obligations is unclear, it is difficult for the employer to prove that he has actually met the expectations set out in the legislation, and this can lead to litigation with unpredictable outcomes. it is also in the interest of workers that the protection to which every european citizen has an inalienable right under article 137 of the treaty of rome in the field of safety and health at work be ensured by effective legislation that is easily applicable in practice. the creation of specific guidelines has been ongoing for a decade and a half. the optical radiation directive is intended to cover the fourth most important area after noise, mechanical vibration and electromagnetic radiation. the european commission and the council originally envisaged that optical radiation from both natural and man-made sources would be treated within the framework of this fourth directive. however, the two areas show significantly different characteristics in terms of intervention and risk reduction. therefore, the european parliament, in its second reading debate on the directive, has transferred full regulatory competence for risks related to solar radiation to the member states. this decision, as it turned out, infringed the union's competences, since it would have prevented the application of the requirement laid down in article 137 of the treaty of rome, which requires that the level of minimum safety and health requirements applicable to all types of risks be fixed within the union framework. the council and the commission were therefore unable to accept parliament's decision at second reading and a conciliation procedure was opened. in the course of its conciliation procedure, the council accepted the majority of parliament's amendments, with only two proposals for substantive and two for formal changes. the most important substantive amendment was to exclude optical radiation from natural sources from the scope of the directive, as there is currently no basis for a pan-european agreement to specify minimum eu requirements in this area. however, there is no debate among legislators on artificial radiation and it is therefore appropriate to introduce a specific directive on this subject this year, which will provide for precise regulation. these arguments were accepted by the parliament's delegation, but on all other issues the council accepted the european parliament's position. thus, the wording proposed by the parliament's delegation was incorporated in article 8 on health surveillance and in the related recital. the conciliation process was therefore faster and more successful than we had expected, and the final agreement was reached in december 2005. i therefore ask for the support of my colleagues and of parliament in this vote.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this ambitious work, and i thank him for it. the protection of democracy, human rights and the rule of law and good governance are fundamental elements of the european union; they must also be an integral part of the eu’s external policy. i would like to lay special emphasis on the promotion of equal opportunities and on the fight against discrimination based on sexual orientation. these questions are still serious problems in every country today. women’s and children’s rights, and the rights of those with different sexual orientations, are being violated every day. in order to improve implementation of these aims, the european union must prepare new procedures and new criteria for applying human rights and democracy clauses. i agree that, in order to ensure a more coherent, effective and transparent approach to european human rights policy, a revision of the current text is indispensable. i support the establishment of human rights subcommittees under eu third country agreements, to be responsible for reviewing compliance with the clause, monitoring its application and implementation, and proposing actions to address democracy and human rights problems.
the new member states want to join the schengen area as soon as possible. but positive expectations are mixed with anxiety and worry. they fear that a new iron curtain may descend, this time not on the western, but on the eastern borders. they fear that accession to schengen will make it difficult to maintain family ties and prevent the maintenance or development of economic, educational and cultural ties. the report and the cooperation between the commission and parliament are very valuable in providing a reassuring answer to the concerns. this report and this text are now in all respects more favourable than the commission's original proposal. there are three important things. first, it sets the perimeter at 30 kilometers, but it allows for a 50 kilometer extension. secondly, it commits to at least one year of residence, but it provides an opportunity to extend it on a bilateral basis for up to several years, thus responding to concerns that mass migration to border areas could disrupt the ethnic balance there. third, it extends the duration of stay in neighbouring countries from seven days, which was the original proposal, to three months. this allows all activities that are part of cross-border cooperation to be carried out freely. so that's a very good suggestion. however, it is worthless in itself, because it proposes the introduction of small border traffic licences. however, this would require an amendment to the council regulation on schengen and the introduction of such a small border traffic authorisation should be allowed. i welcome mr frattini's words and hope that the council will adopt the same constructive attitude as the commission and amend the schengen agreement and the regulation as soon as possible, so that this very good text can finally enter into force.
i welcome the draft regulation adopted today and congratulate the rapporteur for having contributed to a better text that is truly fit for purpose. for us hungarians, the regulation is particularly important, as it provides a new form of communication for hungarians living in neighbouring countries without borders, making their daily lives easier. the project takes into account the specificities and differences of the border regions and can have a positive impact in the border regions without affecting the guarantee elements. we hope that it does not break the traditional characteristics of the border regions today. governments now have the responsibility and the opportunity to comply with the terms of the regulation when concluding bilateral agreements. we feel that this will be a great way to keep in touch on both sides of the border, while also screening for abuse.
europe is the world's largest energy importer. and imported energy is becoming more expensive, and it comes from a region that is both politically and economically unstable. all of this forces us to reduce, if possible eliminate, our dependence on energy imports, our vulnerability. to do this, we need to increase the use of renewable energy sources in europe, while rationalising and making our energy use more efficient. the eu's efforts in this area over the past decade have been successful: the eu achieved its 2010 target for wind energy at the end of last year, biomass power plants are expanding rapidly and biofuels are gaining ground. what's the secret of this success? i am convinced that the eu legislation adopted here in parliament is the binding standard. i am against over-regulation, but it is difficult to deny that the union's legal obligation and the commonly set objectives are effective means of stimulating member states. today, 40% of energy consumption is accounted for by the domestic heating/cooling sector. the average renewable energy use in european homes is currently 10% but this is due to the outstanding performance of only a few countries - austria, germany, greece, etc. others - including my country - use almost no renewable energy, do not support such investment, have no government programs, and rather raise administrative barriers. regulation at eu level is needed to reduce the fossil energy consumption of households, greenhouse gas emissions and our energy dependence in a cost-effective and effective way. that is why i support the creation of a directive on this.
the year i was born, president kennedy said, "ich bin ein berliner". at that time, everyone understood and agreed that the separation of east and west was a historical sin. if i say today, 'ich bin ein polish plumber', do we all know that the question of european unity is still at stake, and do we agree? the service directive is about values beyond interests. the four fundamental freedoms enshrined in the treaty of rome, equality of opportunity. it is unacceptable in 21st century europe to discriminate against a service provider on the basis of origin, nationality or mother tongue. an important objective is to reduce the number and vulnerability of people in the black or grey economy. we want a better europe! one where service providers enjoy legal certainty in member countries. a better europe, where service providers can legally create european jobs and meet consumer needs. we need to create a secure, stable, clear legal framework. this is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises. the socialist representatives of the new member states have always consciously stood up for this common european interest. we were constructive, we agreed to a complete exemption of labour law from the directive. we have recognised that the freedom to provide services should be replaced by the country of origin. we have recognised that the directive cannot conflict with other existing european legal norms and cannot override the basic treaty. the frame that is solid, stable and clear in outline cannot be loosened. it is unacceptable that there should be indefinite exceptions, because they would leave room for the arbitrariness of the member states. we do not support the total exclusion of services of general economic interest, but we are prepared to examine sectoral exemptions on a case-by-case basis. we recognise and even welcome the protection that european consumers everywhere and at all times deserve, but we do not accept that consumer protection limits the freedom to provide services. and last but not least, in the face of global competition, europe cannot afford to spend its collectively generated gdp on administrative oversight.
some say that a watered-down policy is better than none. but that is not true, because there is a limit beyond which we no longer help the free provision of services, but we put new obstacles in its way. unfortunately, some of the amendments tabled last week do just that. if we vote for these, we kill the essence of this bill. there is a lot to lose, as the european court of justice has consistently defended service providers against attempts by member states to restrict their rights over the past decades. if we now adopt a directive full of new obstacles, contrary to the spirit and the letter of the treaties on which the union was founded, we should not hope for the success of the lisbon programme, which is intended to create jobs and new growth in europe, because we would then be restricting this market for another 30 years. the new member states opened their capital and commodity markets a few years ago. it wasn't an easy decision. we could have said that our economies are too weak, too competitive. many of us in the new member states are therefore surprised that now that the market for services is to be opened up jointly, many of the old member states with strong economies are becoming uncertain. ladies and gentlemen, your turn. do you stand for one of the four freedoms of the union or not? a strong services directive would be good for small and medium-sized businesses, good for the old and new member states, good for all european citizens. members of the house, please, let's remove any attempt to restrict the free market in services from the bill. we hungarians can only support a directive which does not only nominally uphold the principle of free services in the treaty of rome.
on behalf of the pse group. mrs mcguinnes has done an excellent job with this report. i thank you for your excellent cooperation, since you have taken into account all the comments made by the group of the party of european socialists in your report. i am very pleased that this report is in full agreement with the earlier report by my colleague mrs agnes schierhuber. i know that rural development is the commissioner's heart. we all talk about how rural development has been the biggest loser of the seven-year budget. it is simply outrageous that while we are all - both the commission and parliament - talking about giving more money to rural development, the second pillar, the opposite is happening. and that is why mrs mcguinnes' report is so important, because if there is no more money in the system, or even less money, then at least the system should be more flexible, it should better reflect the diversity of the member states. in that sense, it is a very good and useful report. i am also very sorry, as a new member state, that the rural development of the old member states has been reduced by 15-20%, but that the rural development of the new member states has been increased only slightly, very modestly, whereas everyone said that the long, drawn-out phasing in of copenhagen would be compensated for them. there was no compensation, and unfortunately the old member states were drastically reduced in rural development, perhaps being forced to modulate, but that is no consolation. it is very important, as mrs schierhuber said, that jobs should not only be created but also preserved. and in that respect, it's very good that the mcguinnes report includes support for diversification of activity. in short, not just to cut down an apple orchard, but to give the farmer money to plant a crop that has a market. this is very important in this report because it helps to preserve jobs. it's very important to have quality products, to promote local products. today we still have an overly market-oriented view of profit. we thank mrs mcguinnes for the fact that the transitional arrangements in the new member states will continue to apply. moreover, my experience as the future rapporteur on integration issues in the new member states (these issues will be discussed in the second half of this year) is that there is a very high demand for this in the new member states. i support mrs mcguinnes' report.
more than half of our population lives in rural areas. rural development is a challenge for all member states throughout the union. if we can fully implement its objectives, it will not only lift the countryside, but also boost the economy of the whole community and contribute to improving the quality of life of all citizens. effective rural development programmes not only improve competitiveness and provide a solid foundation for sustainable development, but also strengthen social cohesion and the healthy development of all sections of society. this is particularly true for the new member states, whose productivity will lag behind the old ones for some time. the effective use of the increased subsidies under the second pillar will help to reduce the existing disparities. in identifying the necessary methods and instruments, particular attention should be paid to the natural diversity of regions within the enlarged union. member states should therefore be given adequate flexibility to manage rural development instruments. this gives the regions the opportunity to develop development programmes that best suit their specificities. the involvement of private capital is essential for the implementation of the programmes, the consistent completion of structural change and modernization. creatively using alternative resources, promoting extensive training opportunities is also key to achieving real gender equality and to involving as many women as possible in rural development by expanding the labour market. i recommend that the excellent report be adopted.
mr president, six years ago the pollution of the river tisza with cyanide, which was caused by gold mining in baia mare, romania, showed us the dangers of gold mining at the heart of europe. hungary was not a member of the european union at that time, but the whole european union showed solidarity with us, the victims of the river pollution. the european union has recently adopted a directive on mining waste that will stop all mining activity that is dangerous to nature. we were more than satisfied when the romanian government, even before its membership of the european union, showed its readiness to accept this directive. however, according to the latest worrying news in some political and business circles, the idea is once more emerging of opening up a new gold mine with cyanide technology in romania. let us give a strong and definitive ‘no’ to such dangers and ventures. let us ask the romanian government to keep to its commitments.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - mr president, i have to go. the regional development committee supported this report by a large majority. the rapporteur had to reconcile widely differing views. thanks for that. the european people's party has never supported restrictions on the freedoms, in our case the free movement of capital. this was the basis of our compromise and we must continue to oppose the idea that restrictions on freedom are the solution to local problems. unfortunately, we saw an alarming example of this not so long ago in the services directive. protectionism, driven by selfishness and fear, is backfiring. where the labour market was opened up to workers from the new member states, output increased and unemployment even decreased. some of the companies have moved from other places where labor is cheaper. the relocation of companies is a matter of concern. if the owner has no other consideration than profit, he may benefit more than he harms others. the increasing income of shareholders is no consolation for the unemployed worker whose company has left for the third world or even another part of the union. we must therefore find the appropriate means to promote the common good, but i fear that no legislation can replace the mutual responsibility between owner and employee. their relationship will be human if it is not only economic but also ethical. i am therefore convinced that we must return to the question of relocation by breaking new ground and finding new solutions.
mr. president, i have to ask you... earlier it seemed that many people wanted to use this debate to create a new dividing line between the oldest and the newest member states of the european union. our task is to create rules that can ensure a better, safer and growing europe for all citizens in all member states. the bad rules mean that cohesion policy, which is based on one of our greatest core values, solidarity, can help the most deprived, but can cause insecurity and vulnerability for others. the author of the report had to face the difficult task of making the relocation issue not just another divide between east and west, but a further step towards european unification. the rapporteur's work has resulted in more balanced proposals, which are more likely to ensure the achievement of regional policy objectives and to strengthen social and economic security for workers in all 25 member states. congratulations to the reporter.
mr president, generally speaking, i agree with mr matsakis and his excellent report. all of my amendments were accepted by the committee. i should like to briefly underline their content. public information is crucial in this case. everybody should understand the health and environmental risks of mercury. as pollution does not stop at borders, we must also urge our neighbouring countries to implement our strict mercury policy. the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument is a primary tool to encourage those countries to take the right action in the field of the environment. the same goes for the labelling of gold that has been mined without using mercury, both inside and outside the european union. last but not least, i call upon the european union to be cautious about dental amalgam. the real risk should be avoided, but we have to allow more time for research and consideration of the scientific facts. i believe that at this moment in time a total ban would be too radical a step.
author. - mr president, i have to go. this year has been declared the european year of workers' mobility. by 30 april, each member state must decide whether to open up its labour market. it is up to you to decide whether this year will be the year of worker mobility or a parody of it. we cannot tolerate the fact that workers in the new member states continue to be secondary, and in some respects even thirdary, players on the labour market. the free movement of persons is one of the four fundamental freedoms, the founding principle of the union. at the summit in march, europe's heads of state and government will discuss the lisbon process. the lisbon process is doomed to failure unless we create a single and flexible labour market. and that's impossible to imagine without liberating the labor market. the commission has recently published an assessment which makes it clear that the fears and anxieties in the old member states are unfounded. for a long time, there was a fear that there would be a massive influx of labour into the three countries that had liberalised the labour market, britain, ireland and sweden. that didn't happen. unemployment did not rise in these countries, although it was expected to. on the other hand, undeclared work decreased, budget revenues increased and the competitiveness of companies improved. in countries that continue to have restrictions, illegal employment is still significant. the commission clearly concluded that the countries that benefited from this process were those that allowed the free movement of labour from the new member states. i have already said that the citizens of the new member states are second-class citizens in the labour market. however, since 23 january, they have become, in some respects, tertiary, since the directive, which stated that third-country nationals who have been legally resident in the union for at least five years should be guaranteed the right to take up employment and to establish themselves, entered into force. we're fine with that. but this means that they are also in a better position than workers in the new member states. i would therefore ask the commissioner how he sees the solution to this problem, how we can ensure that workers in the new member states do not feel like third-class citizens in the labour market. and i want to welcome the decision of finland, spain and portugal. these are very positive decisions to liberalise the labour force, but we expect france, the netherlands and belgium to join in and liberalise the labour market, because it is in everyone's interest.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - mr president, i have to go. oral question to the commission. in relation to the issue of free movement of workers from the new member states, the court wishes to know whether, under the current legal framework, certain categories of citizens who are not union citizens do not enjoy significantly more advantages in respect of movement for employment between member states than citizens of the new member states. if that were the case, it would be clearly wrong, and we should restore it so as not to undermine the principle of preference in the status quo clause of the accession treaty. article 21 of directive 2003/109, on the other hand, provides that third-country nationals who have obtained a long-term residence permit in the second member state must be guaranteed access to the labour market. the term 'to be insured' should be interpreted as meaning that the issue of a work permit cannot be refused if the persons concerned have already acquired the right of long-term residence. it follows that the long-term residence permit issued in the second member state practically includes the work permit. this means that once the corporate reception capacity in the destination country is in place, entry into the labour market for non-eu citizens from other member states is automatic and unrestricted, whereas entry for citizens from the new member states is clearly restricted and restricted. the objective of greater mobility and a more flexible and integrated labour market is certainly to be welcomed. that is clearly the aim of the 109th directive, but the order must be respected. for my part, while welcoming the explanation which i heard from the commissioner, i would like to draw attention to the need not simply for a letter but for a set of procedural rules which clarify exactly how to proceed when a third country national and an eu citizen are in competition with each other. so we need some more precise, more detailed guidance, and i would expect that from the european commission.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i would like to thank my colleague, mr istván szent-iván, for putting this subject back on the agenda, which is important not only for the new member states but for the whole of europe. thanks to commissioner vladimir spidla for a very good summary report, which gives an accurate and credible picture of recent labour market developments. hungary and the other new member states aim to remove all legal and administrative obstacles currently hindering the free movement of workers within the european union. we want to be equal citizens of the union. the opening up of the labour market and the free movement of workers is not a gift or a favour, but a sensible decision by the nine old member states, with positive effects for all citizens of the european union. the competitiveness of the european union is at stake. i hope that the nine old member states will recognise this and that, at the end of the two-year transition period ending in april 2006, the remaining nine old member states, in addition to finland, spain and portugal, which are now opening their markets, will also take a favourable decision. we owe a debt of gratitude to the united kingdom, ireland and sweden for being the first to open their markets. these countries have gained a significant advantage from this move. in ireland, the unemployment rate has fallen over the past two years, partly due to the positive impact of workers from the new member states. in the uk, the influx of workers has contributed greatly to economic growth, to improving competitiveness. consequently, the accusations and fears of mass immigration and social dumping are simply unfounded. thank you to finland, spain and portugal, who have announced that they will also open up their labour markets. there is a great hypocrisy in allowing labour from non-eu countries into the nine member states which have not lifted the restrictions, while denying it to workers from the new member states. i have a late discussion with officer frattini. what he said is only true in countries that have opened up their labor markets. there is indeed a possibility of giving workers from the new member states an advantage over those from third countries. where it hasn't been opened, that question doesn't even arise. it is therefore a matter of principle to open up, a matter of competitiveness, and a matter of eliminating discrimination and of equality between the 15 old and the 10 new member states.
one hundred and twenty years ago, thomas edison said, "electric lighting will be so cheap that only the very rich will be able to light candles". today, only the very rich can afford not to have a cell phone and an e-mail address. without these, it is difficult to apply for a job, and it is hopeless to start a business. the implementation of the information society is not only a means to growth and employment but also an essential condition. we need to develop in all areas simultaneously, and quickly and flexibly: we need to build networks where it would not be profitable on a purely market basis. we must include this in our cohesion policy. we need to provide the public with affordable access to the networks. the market will accept that if we don't put unnecessary obstacles in its way. we need to ensure high-quality, secure content. this implies up-to-date training, innovation, research and development and, of course, more effective protection of intellectual property rights. if we'd waited too long to turn on the lights, the candle would have burned out. if we are too far behind in the information society, the globalised ict economy will happily overtake us. we need to move, fast.
my fellow members of parliament! the establishment of a european institute for gender equality is of paramount importance, helping to eliminate all forms of discrimination on grounds of sex throughout europe. i confirm the wish of the rapporteurs that the institute should not be limited to data collection, record keeping and research. the analysis needs to be integrated into member states' policies in an innovative way and to make equal opportunities a mainstream policy for legislators. at the same time, it is necessary to make the results of research available to the general public, so that european citizens are aware of the issue of gender equality. however, this requires strengthening and institutionalising the institute's relationship with the civil society and the fora responsible for communication matters. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that cooperation with the media and the use of modern means of communication is an important task of the institute! resources should be provided to ensure that research results go beyond the professional circles and are as widely known and used as possible. the institute's work will only be effective if it truly functions as a european network for gender equality, and is able to coordinate the centres, organisations and experts in the member states concerned with the general promotion of equality of opportunity, and to get its message across to governments and european citizens. i congratulate the rapporteurs and recommend that the document be adopted. thank you for your time.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the challenge for the european union is to break out of the vicious circle of social exclusion. it is unacceptable that 15 per cent of european citizens, some 68 million people, are living in poverty, as announced in a report by the european commission published on 27 january 2005. it is unacceptable that social exclusion affects the most vulnerable social groups, women and ethnic minorities. they are disadvantaged in getting and keeping jobs, in wages, in social services, in health, in education and in access to cultural goods. the report finds that hungary has a lower proportion of people at risk of poverty than the eu average, at less than 10%, as do the czech republic, sweden, denmark and slovenia. ireland, slovakia, greece, and portugal, on the other hand, have poverty rates of 20 percent or more. commissioner vladimir spidla said that women spend four times as much time caring for others as men. if we recognize the social value of this, we give it a real chance to catch up. the only way for the poor and vulnerable to break out of the cycle of social exclusion is to create jobs for them, to provide them with market-oriented training. access to work means income that facilitates social integration and contributes to individual growth. this is the real challenge, let's do it! i recommend that the report be adopted.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i would like to conclude this debate, which has lasted all night, by making a few brief remarks, both as the chairman of the committee responsible for cocobu and as a representative of new countries. the representatives of the new countries participated with great joy and enthusiasm in the parliamentary preparations for financial regulation. they did so not only out of enthusiasm for the work of parliament but also out of a conviction that we are serving a better, simpler, more efficient europe. our experience of almost two years has shown us that financial regulation in the european union is often over-bureaucratized and anti-performance. it is in the interest of all of us to change this, indeed it is our duty. with this in mind, all parliament's staff involved worked together in a positive way, the two committees established a stronger cooperation, selected two excellent rapporteurs and from the time of the joint hearing to the vote, did everything possible to achieve results. we hope that the commission and the council will soon follow this good example in the interests of a new and better europe.
mr. president, i have to ask you... on march 15, hungary remembers the 1848 war of independence and the civil revolution. looking back, we can say that the enduring result of the revolution was economic change, freedom for the people, the enduring competitiveness of the country. today, the competition is no longer between nation states, but between continents, on a global scale. therefore, sustainable competitiveness must also be created at this level. the european union needs a major change in economic philosophy. we must move from the outdated, sterile competition between member states to a european internal market that ensures maximum freedom and human dignity for people. the lisbon strategy is not just a five-decade plan, but also the basis for our competitiveness and survival for the next 100-150 years. in 1848, politicians understood the message of the age, and they took the lead in bringing about change. i ask the council, the commission, parliament and the prime ministers preparing for the spring summit to understand and deliver the message of the 21st century. that is what we, the citizens of europe, expect of them.
mr. president, i have to ask you... regional integration in the western balkans is a key element of the commission's enlargement strategy. this is a good thing to do, because it encourages cooperation, responsibility and economic benefits. but it is wrong to impose an economic, political unity that is not wanted by those involved or that is not viable in itself. it would be much more appropriate to extend the existing cefta, as the croatian government proposes, because it has already proven that a successful, good cooperation should involve the balkan states. the real guarantee of stability in the western balkans is the credible promise of european integration. in this respect, it is extremely worrying that, on the basis of the council's proposal, the countries concerned will not receive adequate financial support in the future, and will receive less support next year and in subsequent years than they have so far. this calls into question the credibility of the accession process as a whole. so we want to increase the funds available substantially. thirdly, the assessment of individual countries must be based on individual performance, and no block approach and linking should be accepted, since these countries must prove their maturity on their own. croatia has done a great deal to join the union as soon as possible. we must acknowledge these efforts because he deserves to conclude the negotiations successfully and as soon as possible.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the brok report does not define anything specific about national minorities. the union often uses double or even triple standards, imposing completely different rules and expecting different things from two candidate countries, while demanding almost nothing from its own member states in matters relating to minorities. the albanians in macedonia have been granted the widest measure of administrative and even territorial autonomy following an armed uprising, while in the case of romania, the union does not advocate territorial autonomy for the nearly one million hungarians living in szeklerland. he promises independence for kosovo, but he doesn't even propose autonomy for vojvodina, which was taken away by milosevic. i ask you to support the hungarian amendments which aim to preserve the multi-ethnic character of the vajdaság, to protect minorities, to extend the provincial autonomy. without autonomy there can be no solution, as commissioner olli rehn knows very well, for the swedish-speaking finns in finland, there can be no solution in the balkans, nor for the kurds in turkey.
mr. president, i have to ask you... first of all, i'd like to thank professor trakatellis for his excellent and thorough work. health is the most important value, and it is good that the european union is also concerned about this. i would like to join my colleague mr fjellner in saying that as a representative of a new member state i am glad that the areas of health and consumer protection have been separated, since the two areas are characterised by completely different types of problems in our country. it's not enough to live a long life, but it's equally important to stay healthy for as long as possible. i therefore find it extremely positive that the programme focuses on increasing healthy life expectancy, as it is crucial for the well-being of european citizens to enjoy good health for as long as possible. this is also of great importance for the sustainability of social welfare systems in the light of today's demographic challenges. this is particularly important in hungary, where the average healthy life expectancy is almost ten years lower than in the older eu countries. the new programme should therefore include a specific effort to reduce disparities in the health status of union citizens. our priority is prevention, which is also the focus of this program. i myself therefore proposed in my amendment that the focus should be on the health of children and young people, since a healthy lifestyle in early life is crucial to avoid problems later on. and finally, i would like to draw attention to the fact that every penny that we spend on improving people's health is going to be returned many times over. there is hardly a better investment than health to put european taxpayers' money into. i therefore hope that the necessary financial backing will be provided for the successful implementation of the programme before us. i want to thank professor trakatellis again for his hard work on behalf of all of us, and i hope that everything that is in this program will come true.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i agree with all the arguments put forward by the rapporteur and the conference of presidents to justify the separation of health and consumer protection, which i also support. i would like to make another point. consumer protection presents unique challenges outside health in both new and old member states. these challenges must be addressed with the utmost autonomy. initially, consumer protection was mainly about goods, including, most likely, food and household goods. however, in the last decade, this situation has changed radically. on the one hand, consumer protection must go beyond goods to include services, along with market integration. on the other hand, consumer protection must adapt to the market realignment brought about by the rapid development and spread of information technologies. today, it is easy to imagine a french consumer sitting in a belgian flat, texting a consumer loan from a dutch bank, and then with a few clicks of the mouse, buying a swedish electronic item from a lithuanian online store, delivered by a british service provider. such a situation, which is now commonplace, is nothing other than the normal functioning of our internal market. in the current legal framework, it is not only difficult to determine at what point in time which consumer protection law of which country is the decisive one, but it is also difficult to determine the jurisdiction of the various authorities involved, especially for the consumer. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of consumers, in particular on the rules on the protection of consumers' data, the rules on the protection of consumers' data and the rules on the protection of consumers' data. like industry, our legal system and our institutions need innovation. the framework for the protection of european consumers in the 21st century must be flexible enough to adapt to the inestimable variety of potential practical situations. to do this we need independent resources, excellent and versatile professionals, and i believe it is in the common interest of the 450 million european consumers that the consumer agency should be an independent pole of excellence. i'm asking for your support on this.
mr. president, i have to ask you... as others have already said on behalf of our group, we welcome the commission's ideas for the 2007 annual political strategy. i welcome it in two respects, firstly as regards the procedural aspects and secondly as regards the content. as regards procedure, i welcome the initiative which was launched last year as a result of an agreement between the european parliament and the european commission, which gives the european parliament, and its committees within it, greater say and opportunity in the design of the annual political strategy and legislative programme. i hope this year will eliminate the difficulties of last year. the document submitted by the commission also shows a significant change in content compared to previous years and points in the right direction. paradoxically, the lack of a budgetary foundation, due to the lack of financial perspectives, could also be said to have benefited the material, since it was better able to focus on the political objectives and tasks facing the union. but we must not forget the context in which this plan is being born. europe has been perceived on several occasions in recent years as moving backwards rather than forwards and not taking the steps that are necessary. last year helped us take some daring first steps in the right direction, but we're full of unfinished business. let's just sort these plans out. here is the constitution, which i think should be finished as soon as possible. if we do not want the european parliament to be filled with eurosceptic parties, we must not allow the right direction to be taken by this constitution until the european parliament elections. we also have no financial perspective. so the targets that are correctly formulated in this seven-year budget, they are not there, they are not grounded at the moment. we have taken a good step in the right direction here, but we are not satisfied with the budget at the moment in this parliament. when we talk about 2007, we also talk about enlargement, because romania and bulgaria are expected to join the european union by then. while we feel that the tensions that arose in the european union as a result of the decline in solidarity during the last enlargement are still unresolved, let us move into the year 2007 by addressing the tensions that arose during the last enlargement.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i would like to speak about another discrimination affecting the new member states. the strasbourg part-session of the european parliament is always a major challenge for members of the european parliament. many of the deputies can only approach strasbourg through frankfurt. that's a grueling two and a half hours by bus. and now, to add to the discomfort, we have a new partner. at frankfurt airport, passengers flying with airlines from the new member states will now have to pass security checks twice, while others will only have to pass once. interestingly, travellers to afghanistan only have to pass one security check, while those travelling to the eu capitals in the new member states - tallinn, riga, vilnius, warsaw, prague, poznań, budapest, ljubljana - have to pass two. this is another open discrimination against the airlines of the member states and their passengers, as it increases the cost of the airlines. i ask the german representatives to help us to put an end to the discrimination against the new member states.
mr president, political parties are a vital element in building and reinforcing a european political sphere. they play an important and crucial role in promoting democratic values such as freedom, tolerance, solidarity and gender equality. in parallel with this, we require a dialogue with citizens on the future of europe and, in this context, political parties must play a key role. mr leinen’s report is commendable in its support of european political parties and its recommendation to improve the current situation. however, mr leinen and our political family have been stopped by the ppe-de group from mentioning the vital role of european political parties in furthering the priority of gender equality. i should like to ask my colleagues to reconsider this, especially those in the ppe-de group, who voted against an amendment in the committee on constitutional affairs. that amendment stated that european political parties should take into account the principle of equal opportunities when filling posts in party offices and on party lists for election. we should not forget that women form the majority of our population. as president of the pse’s women’s group, i am aware of the tremendous work that our political family does in this field throughout the european parliament. other political parties should be doing the same. i urge my colleagues from the ppe-de group to rethink their position and to uphold the values of the eu.
demographic challenges and solidarity between generations represent a complex issue having an extensive impact on our european societies. these two are comprehensive challenges which member states have the responsibility to address in a long-lasting, future-oriented way. the solution should be a comprehensive, global, consistent and fair strategy encouraging understanding and lasting solidarity between the growing number of generations living side by side. policy solutions to the demographic challenge, like ageing, gender, labour market, pensions, migration, should give rise to a new and coherent vision of a european society. although there are considerable differences in the local circumstances of member states, the challenges and targets are similar - to tackle the increasing challenge of europe’s ageing society, bearing in mind the lisbon targets of making europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, with greater social cohesion and sustainable economic growth capacity, and more and better jobs. coping with demographic challenges must be a long-lasting solution which reaches even far beyond the lisbon deadlines. to meet these goals, complex political, economic, and social strategies are needed.
mr. president, i have to ask you... on behalf of the new member states, including hungary, i would like to thank mr parish for his remark that the new member states should not receive financial support from eu funds for the cultivation of crops for energy purposes. the report therefore stresses the importance of the european commission's call to remove barriers to energy crops in the new member states and to allow for the granting of subsidies. it is also very positive that the aid should be granted outside the saps scheme, according to the report, independently of the phasing-in of direct payments. the european parliament's report clearly supports the interests of the new member states, and i would ask mrs fischer boel and the commission to take these proposals into account, since it is extremely important to provide jobs in the new member states with energy aid.
the promotion of crop production for non-food purposes is a unique opportunity that can potentially bring considerable social, economic and environmental benefits for european farmers and rural economies. as a matter of fact, the report clearly highlights the potential offered by the developments and the investments in the non-food crops sector for farmers. developing the non-food crops sector is very likely to have a positive impact on farmers that undergo the consequences of the sugar cmo reform. we should therefore support the development of this sector as it brings alternative productions for european farmers under competition pressure. moreover, it is clear that supporting crop production for non-food purposes is in line with the targets set by the lisbon and gothenburg strategies for the development and use of renewable energies, as crop production for energy purposes brings a large potential in order to meet union’s energy needs.
the rapporteur. i don't see why not. i agree with him. thank you very much.
several european union countries are experiencing severe flooding. in the czech republic, germany, hungary, and austria, thousands of people are fighting heroically against the flood that threatens their homes, their property, and their economy. between 1998 and 2004, there were more than 100 major floods in europe. the floods last year and this year have reinforced the need for concerted eu action. in january 2006, the european commission proposed a directive on the management of european floods. the aim of the directive is to reduce the risks and effects of floods and to increase the level of joint action. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i ask president borrell, i urge the council to take steps as soon as possible to establish a single european flood protection system.
i thank the commissioner for her commitment, together with the european parliament, to supporting the council's public disclosure of its meetings. in fact, i can only repeat what has been said before me, because everyone has said the same thing: parliamentary legislation is one of the fundamental principles of modern democracy, endowed with legislative and executive powers. although there are parliamentary chambers in the member states of the european union, such as the british house of lords, which are not directly elected by citizens, they are publicly elected at the level of the member states. unfortunately, the council is an exception to this principle. in the union's democratic order, it is the only legislative body in the world that makes laws behind closed doors. the exclusion of the public and secrecy in no way enhances the credibility of the european union. if a particularly important contentious issue is at stake, the debate between member states would be much more transparent and understandable to all if the council, at an early stage in the process, held the legislative debate in an open framework. i therefore particularly welcome and thank the excellent report by david hammerstein, the proposals by michael cashman and the report by the european ombudsman on this matter. i would like to remind everyone that, under article 1 of the treaty on european union, decision-making must take place in the greatest possible publicity, thereby bringing the union closer to its citizens.
the rapporteur. european citizens do not like the political code words of the initiates. unfortunately, the lisbon process is becoming a reference to this, even though the code word is the future we all share. if the eu's member countries are competitive, more and better jobs will be created. if more people are employed, poverty will decrease. but it will also provide more resources to reform social systems and to preserve our environment for our grandchildren. i would like to stress that work which is not accompanied and supported by social security cannot produce significant economic results. and if that is the case - and it is - then we welcome the decision of the council and the commission to assess the implementation of the employment and economic development directives in integrated guidelines by the member states, the two topics in context. we can see that the picture has become richer, especially since the european commission has now assessed the action plans of 25 member states. the employment committee has taken note and accepted that, under the interinstitutional agreements, parliament does not change the guidelines every year - i am convinced that this is in the interests of the member states too - and only if there is a disturbance in the european union's employment market. however, in the political objectives contained in the preamble we considered it important to incorporate the lessons of the first post-enlargement report into the parliamentary document. the committee almost unanimously agreed that parliament should be more actively involved in monitoring the application of the guidelines. we will contact the commission's representative. in my report i wanted to complement the commission's proposal on three important points of principle, to which my colleagues, the members of the committee, have made a major contribution in order to clarify and complete the text. first, we will focus on improving the labour market opportunities of disadvantaged groups. and as the gentlemen mentioned, it's a condition for further economic growth. the huge reserve of increasing the labour force is firstly increasing female activity, secondly retaining or attracting back into the labour market the aging or elderly workforce, and thirdly getting young people into the labour market. but at least as important is the need to address the disadvantages that are keeping some people out of the labour market today. we draw attention to the anomaly that workers from third countries may be placed in a more favourable position on the european labour market than citizens of the new member states. we will be able to discuss this problem in the context of the debate on the watch tower report, but i would like to add that, based on the news that has been heard in recent days, we welcome the netherlands to the club of the six (as the seventh country, since 2007). and finally, thirdly, we believe that without a long-term financial perspective, adequate resources cannot be provided to member states for the tasks for which the integrated guidelines also mention as a fundamental objective. political parties are not the only ones to be affected by this situation. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left behind. there is hope that unity in diversity is not just a slogan, but an opportunity.
mr president, the european employment strategy, properly and pragmatically carried out by member states, has the capacity to fulfil the employment goals set up within the framework of the lisbon employment targets. it should indeed reflect a wide anti-discrimination policy, the promotion of gender equality providing a tool for tackling the gender gaps in the labour market. the european employment strategy must be regarded not only as a tool for attracting more people to the labour market; it should also present a favourable and open opportunity to join the labour market for those who have particularly limited access to employment, such as older women, single parents and ethnic minorities. it must be admitted that the challenge of europe’s ageing society can only be tackled with the increased participation of those special groups in the labour market, as commissioner špidla said. all kinds of obstacles must be eliminated. we are striving for more and better jobs, having declared 2006 the european year of workers’ mobility. for europe’s workforce, mobility provides for new skills, new experiences, flexibility and a capacity to adapt to the different working conditions and constantly changing market needs. mobility is a value contributing to the benefit of the whole european economy. that is an urgent need that must be recognised by some member states which still maintain barriers to the new eu countries’ workforce. finally, i think that the ees has the potential to become the strategy to move towards full employment, making work a real option for all, increasing the quality and productivity of work, and anticipating and managing change, highlighting a more cohesive society of equal opportunities for anyone striving to promote diversity and non-discrimination. my hungarian colleague, mrs kósáné kovács, has prepared an outstanding report of great value and i propose that her recommendations be adopted.
in recent years the eu has been facing serious economic problems: the union’s growth is below its potential when compared to the us or to emerging countries such as china or india. the european economy suffers from a lower demographic growth, employment rate and productivity. europe must foresee long-term strategies and sufficient resources to invest in its future. the strategies were designed in order to address these problems but the situation is getting worse. there are various reasons for this situation: a lack of appropriate infrastructure, insufficient private and public investments, delays in the development of innovative technologies and inappropriate vocational training and education. europe needs a clear vision for a more competitive economy. to be in line with the employment and growth objectives of the lisbon strategy, structural changes are required: support for r&d, encouragement of private and public investments, development of innovative actions for sectors such as biotechnologies, sustainable energies and icts. besides the structural changes and the development of innovative sectors, environmental protection and the quality of products must remain, within the framework of global economy, a genuine european specificity. finally, it is paramount to foster related education and vocational training in order to meet the requirements and challenges of economic development.
the rapporteur. in the context of the 2004 enlargement of the european union, particular attention was paid to the question of the opening of labour markets and, in this context, to the functioning of the system of transitional restrictions deemed necessary by the 12 old member states. under the accession treaties, member states will gradually remove these restrictions between 2004 and 2011 on the basis of their own labour market experience, and the european commission and the european parliament will assess the situation in the light of their experience. the resolution adopted by the european institutions carries a political message and is intended primarily to make clear to the more than 450 million citizens of the union what is in the european interest in the very important issue of the movement of workers. english: what is the european union's interest as a major player in world politics and the world economy? this logic, the consideration of european interests, was the guiding principle in the preparation of the report. the starting point for the assessment of the current situation could only be an analysis of the global challenges facing the european union at the beginning of the 21st century. it is sufficient to note that economic competitors in south-east asia are increasingly converging in both industrial production and research and development and innovation. if we are to keep pace with the growth in competitiveness in both america and asia, we must find solutions to the structural tensions in european economies. the solution is clear: increase mobility within the union and encourage the creation of a single european labour market that is as flexible as possible by all possible means. there are of course alternatives to increasing mobility (speeding up immigration or the like), but they all have in common that they have orders of magnitude higher social costs and much lower efficiency. economic growth in line with the lisbon strategy is mainly achieved by increasing mobility and by exploiting the employment reserves represented by the inactive population. this is the only way to preserve the social achievements so dear to european citizens, of which we so often speak. an important milestone in the process of increasing mobility is the early lifting of the transitional restrictions on the new member states. this is something that several states are already undertaking in may 2006 and it is only to be hoped that others will follow in the coming years - perhaps even before may 2009 - since it is important to stress that the legal possibility exists at any time for other member states to take a similar decision. fears of mass migration have not been confirmed. experience clearly shows that the arrival of workers from the new member states has not caused any labour market or economic stress in the old member states which opted for full market opening in 2004. quite the opposite. the assessment of both the european commission and one of the uk governments involved supports the view that limited migration from new member states brings economic benefits to the host countries. the conclusion is therefore clear: it is in the best interests of both the european union and the member states that the governments concerned abolish as soon as possible the system of transitional measures restricting freedom of establishment within the union. we have also submitted compromise proposals to the report. they were designed to take account of the particular sensitivities of some member states in this important matter. we have seen that it is not just economic but often political, socio-psychological or communication difficulties which make it difficult for member states to achieve the free movement of labour as soon as possible. the compromise proposals also examine the issue in the context of the european common interest, seeking to take account of the aspirations and sensitivities of both the old and the new member states. we hope that the report will be the most widely supported in this parliament's vote. i thank you for your attention and i would also like to thank all my colleagues, the political groups and the european commission for their cooperation. it is no coincidence that the introduction of mr špidla relieved me to a considerable extent of the burden of explaining the report in detail. we think about things in a similar way, we have similar experiences. i hope that's how it will be in the future.
i congratulate the rapporteur, mr csaba, on his excellent work and i would like to thank commissioner špidla for his summary report, which has often been the subject of debate, particularly on the basis of the different interests involved. some colleagues in the states criticize the report, but the majority finds this objective work useful. when the new member states fight for equality, it is more than just a fight for equal treatment: it is in the interests of the whole union. it is paradoxical that the new member states are pushing for the liberalisation that the union should be doing in the interests of its competitiveness, both in the labour market and in the services sector. we want to be equal citizens of the union. the opening up of the labour market and the free movement of workers is not a gift or a favour, but a sensible decision by the eight old member states, with positive effects for all citizens of the european union. we thank the united kingdom, ireland, sweden, finland, spain, portugal and the netherlands, and hope that the other eight countries will reconsider their position. i agree with mr špidla that it is unacceptable that people from third countries who have been legally resident for five years should be given an advantage over workers from the 10 new member states in countries which have not opened their labour markets to them.
the guardian's report on the transitional regime restricting the free movement of workers in the european union's labour market refers to the eu's core values. the free movement of labour is one of the most important principles of the union, and we must reject any restriction on it, not only from an economic point of view but also from a political point of view. i agree with the report's conclusions that workers from third countries should not be given a higher status than workers from eu member states. the existing discriminatory provisions are contrary to the political need to strengthen european identity. the sense of belonging and the sense of community among the citizens of the new member states can only be strengthened if member states guarantee equal rights in employment and access to social benefits. i agree with the proposal that calls on the commission, the member states, the social partners, the competent bodies in the private and public sectors to develop a fair and transparent procedure which will allow citizens of the new member states to take up work in all member states of europe for a fair wage without discrimination, under acceptable health and safety conditions. since statistics clearly indicate that the old member states are not disadvantaged by, and indeed contribute to, the economic development of the new member states by the employment of workers from the new member states, controls on the citizens of the 15 member states should be reduced by all possible means and the european requirement of free movement of labour should be enshrined in national legislation in accordance with the transitional arrangements.
the rapporteur has made a good point of identifying obstacles in community and member state legislation which make the functioning of the internal market difficult. the solution is to review existing legislation and prepare new legislation better and more carefully. the legislature itself is responsible. neither the preparatory and executive committees, nor the legislative council and parliament may delegate this responsibility to others, especially not to external bodies. parliament has a role and responsibility as legislator in the review of existing legislation. i respectfully ask the commission to cooperate closely with parliament in the spirit of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. it is not useful to complicate the preparation of future rules by means of long, bureaucratic procedures. if we set up an independent external audit body today to examine the quality of impact studies, why not set up an independent external audit body tomorrow to examine the independence of the audit body? better regulation of the internal market requires the development of new and more effective working methods rather than the proliferation of bodies that monitor proven bad practices. in parallel with the review of legislation, the commission, the council and the parliament should also critically rethink their own methodologies and, if necessary, responsibly adapt them. finally, i would like to draw the attention of all three institutions to the fact that the guarantee of social trust and respect for european law is the assumption of full publicity and social control.
the new member states must meet the convergence criteria in order to adopt the euro. in order to comply with the convergence criteria, the commission and the council make various recommendations to these member states. my question is: can a member state pursue an economic policy which ignores the recommendations of the council and the commission, and if so, what is the risk of doing so?
the european city of culture project’s important role and its mission are undeniable; it contributes to preserving the diversity and richness of european cultural heritage. it helps a great deal as regards learning about each other’s cultural traditions and values. transparency, clarity, monitoring and best practices present the fundamental requirements of all types of selection procedures of the european community and this should be carried out in the selection of european capitals of culture as well. i can only strongly support the inclusion of bulgaria and romania in the programme, giving way to the interest expressed by the two potential new member states to take part in this action; given the symbolic importance of making them already feel a part of europe and in order to further enrich our cultural values and diversity. the inclusion of the cultural month initiative in the project has the capacity to help people learn about other nations’ cultural heritage and to extend the project to a wider international level.
what happened to the election? in my opinion, sharon and his successor olmert turned the plan into an election in order to further withdraw from the west bank and thus preserve israel's religious identity. sharon's legacy has three objectives: the palestinian side does not want to make a permanent agreement with israel. abu mazen would like to, but he can't, hamas would like to, but he can't, israel would have to unilaterally de facto demarcate its borders, the border would have to run along the "separation" wall, including the large jewish settlements in the west bank. that would mean a painful and radical withdrawal of some 70,000 settlers. if this happens, three separate cantons will be formed, and we can be sure that this "something" will lead to a failed state. and here's the thing, we in the eu have to make it clear to our israeli friends that it's not in their interest to do that anymore, because it's sure to lead to another palestinian uprising, and everybody knows what that means. the arab league has an interesting position on this issue: they would imagine peace based on israel's 1967 borders. perhaps we should examine the negotiations on this basis, and see if this is the path to a secure peace in the future. i'm becoming more and more convinced that israel's security is not in keeping the settlements, but in resolving the conflict.
in my country, there's a saying that money can buy everything but health. at the same time, we know very well that health is often a question of money. well, health care, at least. this is the problem we face as this year's world health day draws attention to the global shortage of health workers. the reason for the shortage, according to who, is the decades-long underfunding of health workers' training, salaries, working conditions and management systems. moreover, demographic changes in europe are likely to increase the need for doctors. the problem with health care is that it's completely underfunded. the other is the respect of the workers in society, the prestige of the profession. fewer and fewer are studying to become doctors and nurses, because their average salary and social standing are out of proportion to the difficulty and importance of the profession they are pursuing. therefore, we must restore the health care system as soon as possible. the migration of health workers is already a major problem. part of the shortage of doctors in england is being filled by hungary, which is receiving doctors and nurses from romania, whom romania is trying to replace from moldova. the line could go on and on. the problems are obviously much more serious in developing countries, but there is also much work to be done in europe. another aspect of the problems in the area of pay is the general system of payroll in some member states. this is legally and morally unacceptable, it's humiliating for both patients and doctors, and it creates further inequalities in the health care system. so this needs to be settled as soon as possible. all in all, we need to create more money, more respect and cleaner relationships if we are to ensure that the quality of our health care across europe does not deteriorate, but rather improves, in the years ahead. i hope that the world day will bring more attention to this important area and bring the solution closer.
on the occasion of world health day, let me draw your attention to another important day, the international roma day, celebrated on april 8. i want to talk about the roma. the roma population is young: its fertility and mortality rates are high. the average life expectancy of roma in europe is 10 years shorter than that of the majority of the population. roma are many times more likely to be affected by tb than the general population: the rate of tb is ten times higher, the rate of cancer is four times higher, the rate of iron deficiency and circulatory diseases is ten times higher, the rate of cerebral circulatory disorders is six times higher, the rate of hypertension is four times higher and the rate of heart disease is 15 times higher in europe today. because unfortunately, these figures -- although they're from a report in hungary -- they're the average across europe. among many other reasons, discrimination in health care is responsible for the fact that roma have an average life expectancy of ten years less than non-roma. and i'm going to link to something that many of you have mentioned today: the training that health care workers receive. are they adequately equipped to treat their patients without discrimination? (unfortunately, we have very little to say about roma patients and doctors today. i would love to be associated with this topic, but unfortunately i can't.) we celebrate international roma day on 8 april worldwide, and in this context, at this time last year, the european parliament adopted a resolution drawing attention to the worrying health situation of roma. in the year since, neither the european commission nor the member states' governments have taken any action to tackle unemployment and economic, housing and educational exclusion of roma, either in healthcare or elsewhere. we call on the european commission to publish a green paper on the unsustainable situation of roma in europe as soon as possible, in order to end their exclusion in healthcare and reform their much lower quality healthcare at european level.
the commission has acted well, wisely and in a timely manner. we have a great insurance policy. as long as you're safe, european agriculture is in good hands. poultry consumption in the european union fell by 30 percent, but in hungary by only 15 percent because the government took decisive steps to win the trust of consumers. i agree with the commission's proposal to the maximum. the commission has adopted an excellent plan for market measures. i think that marketing is just as important, as is the restoration of consumer confidence, to which many people, including commission president daul, have referred. that is why i am fully in favour of this report, of helping the poultry farmers of europe. i also agree with the question of co-financing, because we as new member states have already experienced co-financing: we co-finance 30% of direct payments each year, and i think it is fair that there should be co-financing in this area too. i therefore fully support the efforts of commissioner fischer boel and thank you once again on behalf of european and hungarian poultry farmers.
mr president, we do not question the timeliness of this accession as we listen to this debate today. but let me draw your attention, commissioner, to some important factors when you prepare your report. one is that, despite the huge steps taken, reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption are still of major concern as regards romania and bulgaria. dozens of emails and letters inform us that the mere adoption of laws is far from satisfactory in solving the problems or in changing existing practice in this area. the implementation of these laws and their reflection in everyday reality should also be taken into account by the commission. although it is often questioned whether the situation of minorities is an important factor in this process, their inclusion among the copenhagen political criteria, as well as the fact that they were monitored during the accession process of the ten previous new member states, clearly indicates their significance. although several problems of the hungarian minority in romania were identified in this process and formulated by the community itself – also reflected in parliament’s resolutions and previous commission reports – they are still left unresolved. that is the situation, despite the fact that the hungarian party is part of the ruling coalition. this is presented as a solution in itself, which is not the case, despite the nice promises made by the government. in reality, few things have changed and, in any case, far fewer things than expected within the community. no minority law has been adopted and there are no signs that this will happen in the near future. neither the requested necessary institution-building nor developments in mother-tongue higher education have taken place. i ask you, commissioner, to include a reference to the unresolved questions that reflect the real, present concerns of one of the largest minorities in europe with special roots and tradition in this region. neglecting these specific concerns, as well as the others regarding the judiciary and corruption, would bring the eu’s credibility into question, both within the acceding countries and within the member states.
mr president, i am not going to repeat the comments made by our rapporteurs, which i fully support, but i would like to come back to article 39 of the treaty of accession. my group’s opinion has already been stated by our leader mr schulz. during our recent visits to bulgaria and romania, we had a great number of meetings – not only with government members and officials but also with opposition members, representatives of trade unions, ngos, academics, representatives of the business community and the eu member states’ ambassadors – and no one we spoke to came to the conclusion that there is a serious risk of either country being manifestly unprepared to meet the requirements of membership on 1 january 2007. as you, commissioner, have very correctly pointed out in numerous exchanges of views in this house and in the committee on foreign affairs, bulgaria has shown continuous progress in all relevant areas, including regional cooperation, modernisation of the bulgarian police, development of social services, reintegration of persons and minorities, labour and social policy and childcare. i could go on and on, but let me assure you that in sofia they have got the message and all the progress that has been made so far or is currently being made has always been progress and always in the right direction. the governments of bulgaria and romania know that the reforms have to be continued and more progress has to be achieved. commissioner, you said in a recent interview that europe’s borders are defined by values rather than by the geographical guidelines. you said the values defined the borders. well, i fully agree and i strongly believe that bulgaria and romania share our values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and their place from 1 january 2007 should be inside our european union. their borders from 1 january 2007 should be our borders. and there the dynamic concept of the eu will move to new borders. i do not want to repeat what a previous speaker was saying, but i fully share mrs gál’s opinion on the minorities in romania.
on behalf of the pse group. i agree with president gargani that the importance of the status of members of parliament is an issue that we need to address. i find it extremely regrettable that over the past many decades parliament has not been able to find a satisfactory solution to this important question and to the status of its members on its own initiative. i think that parliament should be given the right to regulate the status of a right on its own initiative. i would remind you that the european parliament is the only directly elected body of the european union, and thus the embodiment of the will of the european citizens, of popular sovereignty, and as such plays a key role in reducing the democratic deficit in the european institutional system, in creating a people's europe, in overcoming the detachment from the institutions of the european union. the importance of holding an intergovernmental conference is not in question, and rather than debate it, we should overcome the conflicts of interest that prevent it, because it is a very important issue indeed. let us consider that the declining turnout in european elections and the - i hope temporary - slowdown in the european constitutional process, as well as the failure of the french and dutch referendums, show that the realization of the european idea among citizens is more urgent than ever. however, until a satisfactory status settlement is achieved, the unfortunate events experienced at the end of the previous cycle may occur again, leading to a weakening of citizens' trust. i therefore propose that the adoption of the statute of representatives be put on the agenda as soon as possible.
unfortunately, we are increasingly faced with the fact that europe's countries, especially central europe, are being hit by floods due to climate change and brutal deforestation. that's the way it is now. along the danube, primarily in romania, and along the tisza river in hungary and northern serbia, in the vojvodina, there is a huge battle against the tide. we've had a few power outages. i am very pleased that the european union has set up and uses the solidarity fund a few years ago. i think that now a situation may arise where my constituency in southern hungary and particularly in the neighbouring countries will need to use this solidarity fund. i ask the council to be flexible in this matter, in line with the commission's approach, in terms of the use of assistance. the regions concerned - both candidate and associated countries - will then really feel that europe is helping. the union should also commit itself more in the forthcoming floods directive to mitigating member states' risk burdens, in particular with regard to cooperation with third countries. and that's what this is about. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that in the event of flooding, farmers will receive direct subsidies. furthermore, if flood protection requires the withdrawal of their areas from cultivation, they may retain their entitlement to the aid.
as regards the committee of the regions, i consider it appropriate to accept the 2004 discharge. i appreciate the committee's fundamentally positive and cooperative approach, which has not sought to remove or reduce its responsibility for the shortcomings identified in previous years and this year. it should be noted that some irregularities - namely the delay in the appointment of the internal auditor - were caused by external factors for which no liability could be established. on the problematic issue of real estate, the committee of the regions has no independent responsibility of its own and it would be neither consistent nor constructive for this parliament to criticise one institution for failing to criticise the economic and social committee for failing to criticise another institution which manages the same property. it is reassuring that, thanks to the excellent work of our parliament's committee and the rapporteur in particular, the irregularities identified are now being investigated by the competent financial authorities. under the circumstances, i see no need or benefit to postpone the discharge. during the committee's work prior to this debate, we had already discussed everything that could be discussed within the competence of our institution, and postponing it would not help our own work, the work of olaf or the functioning of the committee of the regions. the court's comprehensive report on the project for the management of the property gives us a clear guarantee. i see a much more constructive approach: we appreciate the positive steps taken by the committee of the regions on our previous recommendations, we appreciate their cooperative attitude and we trust them to continue their work in a similar spirit, as we intend to do with all the other institutions. i would like to say in one sentence that, with regard to strasbourg and all the matters discussed earlier, it is my view that we should base our conclusions on facts and not on emotions.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, especially mr jan mulder, who is here at this late hour, and all the members of the committee for the excellent, hard work they have done over the last six months. we must thank commissioner siim kallas for the excellent cooperation we have shown in all areas, and the best proof of this is that such an important debate is available to us at such an unworthy hour. as a result of this discharge procedure, we intend to take another big step towards the positive das, which we all have as a common goal. it is important not only for us meps, the commission and the court of auditors, but also for the public, and thus for the reputation of the european institution as a whole, that we finally achieve this goal after eleven years. we need to show that taxpayers' money is being used in a lawful, efficient and transparent way. in addition to appreciating the progress made in this area, in the light of the latest developments i cannot but say that, in the case of parliament, contrary to the original commission proposal, i must ask my colleagues to postpone granting the discharge until we have a comprehensive answer to the questions raised. we owe it not only to public opinion but also to ourselves, to the reputation of the european parliament as a whole.
this report is an important step towards the development of an appropriate framework to foster innovation and competitiveness in the eu. the linkage between knowledge, technology and their market opportunities with the support of well targeted state aid is paramount to the relaunch of the growth and employment objectives of the lisbon strategy. fostering the eu’s innovative potential should not obviously hamper the preservation of fair competition among member states and within the various sectors concerned. the european union’s innovation level and investments lag dramatically behind those of its trading partners and competitors; the question of state aid should therefore be carefully addressed. the challenge is to establish an appropriate reform of the state aid policy in order to better contribute to innovation, sustainable growth, socio-economic cohesion and environmental protection while avoiding excessive competition distortions. within the framework of the ‘less and better targeted state aid’ objective, state aid should therefore remain an instrument to correct imbalances with genuine added value where necessary. state aid may be an effective instrument to address market failures but only if allocations are made according to open, transparent and non-discriminatory criteria.
one of the major challenges facing transport is the widespread deployment of intelligent transport systems. that's what an intelligent gps distress call system is. this technology will enable the first steps towards intelligent vehicles, i.e. safer vehicles and thus safer transport. i can only congratulate commissioner reding and hope that we will be able to use intelligent systems in transport in more and more areas. the gps satellite positioning system allows for the call for help even without human intervention. but europe's gps system, galileo, is already the next generation, and it provides interactivity in addition to the system currently in use. europe's largest new virtual infrastructure, the galileo system, is to be launched from 2010. i proposed that the introduction of the emergency call be coordinated with the galileo system, and the committee on transport supported my proposal. i ask parliament to do the same. of course, this will be expensive, like any new technology. the system must therefore be introduced gradually and accelerating and incentivising measures must be developed. nor can we discount the natural incentive that insurance companies are able to provide through premium insurance for those who equip their cars with this intelligent distress call. the transport committee supported my proposal. finally, i think it is essential to examine our experience in the member states since the introduction of the single european emergency number, 112, which will also provide a number of lessons for the introduction of the smart emergency call.
mr. president, i have to ask you... my fellow members of parliament! one of the greatest benefits of the european union is that citizens can express themselves in their mother tongue on eu affairs, and preserving linguistic diversity and cultures is an eu objective. however, this advantage often also represents a disadvantage, as it makes communication between member states more difficult. that is why i support the report by manolis mavrommatis, in which he actively recommends language learning starting at an early age. in central and eastern europe, we find that young people who speak several languages are favoured, who have the opportunity to learn one or two languages in childhood, in school. language skills are a factor of social advantage. this is why every effort should be made to ensure that language learning is part of public education from an early age. i also support the european commission's efforts to introduce a common european language proficiency indicator, thus allowing for the comparison of language skills and the mutual recognition of diplomas. however, in order to promote equal opportunities, i would like to draw attention to the need to ensure that people living in disadvantaged and underdeveloped areas have the opportunity to learn languages, with additional resources if necessary. thank you for your attention.
mr. president, i have to ask you... on 1 may, the european union celebrated its second anniversary of the largest enlargement in its history. in its latest communication, the commission underlined that accession brought economic prospects and resources to the new member states, new momentum and a larger market to the old member states. despite fears, social dumping has not started, nor have wages and social resources in western europe been reduced. let us therefore put an end to the initial mistrust between the two camps and let us make the real impact of accession clear to the citizens of europe. in our globalising world, not only the new member states but also the old ones have no chance of remaining competitive without the union. the first signs of unambiguous cooperation are already visible with the compromise approach to the services directive and the financial perspective. we must work together to speed up the transformation of the union's structure and decision-making, because a constitutional treaty can and must be adopted. i wish all of us that this two-year anniversary will give us faith and courage to do our work.
mr. president, i have to ask you... european citizens are increasingly looking to eat healthy because they see the importance of this. but intention alone is not enough unless it is coupled with the right information. today's consumer is lost in the confusion and confusion of a wide variety of products, forced to rely on the sometimes unfounded and often one-sided claims of manufacturers. we, the legislators, must ensure that the efforts of our citizens are not wasted. we need to ensure that the information on products really helps consumers to make healthy food choices. it is also our responsibility to ensure that regulation does not create an impossible situation for food producers and distributors. consumer protection is an area that helps bring europe closer to the people. and when interpreted and applied correctly, it also helps manufacturers by reducing unfair competition in the market, keeping out bad products and ultimately boosting consumer confidence. but there is also the danger that by misapplication, by over-regulation - by imposing what is known as the banana curve - we can make a mockery of the whole thing in the eyes of the citizens of europe. so we have to find that middle ground where the goat is full and the cabbage is full. europe will only develop if it creates cooperation rather than conflict in the social and economic spheres. i therefore welcome and support the compromise package which has been worked out over a long period of time, even if it is not the most perfect, as mrs sommer and others have said. as a representative of a country with a long tradition of wine production and consumption, i would also like to draw attention to the wine issue. it is a scientifically proven fact that moderate wine consumption has real health benefits. i do not think that, in the fight against alcoholism, we should declare war on a product as important to european culture and diet as wine or beer through this or other legislation, instead of eliminating the underlying causes, and i therefore support the exception for them.
mr president, i too welcome the commission’s decision on the accession date of romania and bulgaria. i also wish to praise the commission for its work, in particular the work of dg enlargement. the european council was right to decide to welcome the people of bulgaria and romania as from 1 january 2007 to our big european family – the european family to which they have always belonged since they share our historic culture and common values. your message to the people of bulgaria and romania is the right one. both countries have worked hard and they have achieved enormous progress so far. the people of both countries strongly supported their governments in this work. these people will now be even more motivated to support the reforms that are still needed and that are described in the commission’s report. as the commissioner has pointed out very correctly in numerous exchanges of views which we have had either in plenary and in the committee on foreign affairs, bulgaria and romania have shown continuous progress in all the relevant areas. both capitals are aware that they have to speed up and reinforce their efforts in certain fields and i strongly believe that they are going to be successful in fulfilling the expectations of the european union, as expressed by its parliament, and most of the expectations of their own people. as a hungarian, i should also like to say a few words about the hungarian minority in romania. firstly, i should like to thank the college of commissioners for raising the issue of the situation of the hungarian minority in the current report. secondly, as i have said so many times in this house concerning this issue, one of the basic failures of the current romanian government coalition agreement was and is to adopt a law on minorities. although i believe that the accession of romania will provide a solution for the hungarians living beyond the border, and that from 1 january 2007 onwards we will be able to live in a common europe without borders, i also wish to emphasise to the romanian government that it should not forget its promise to adopt a minority law; both parliament and the commission will follow that up closely.
mr. president, i have to ask you... officer, in appreciation of your work, allow me to ask you a question. where did the 1.5 million hungarians, one of europe's largest minorities, go in this report? all previous commission and then parliament reports drew attention to the needs of the hungarian community in romania. he barely mentions it now. we're glad to see that, contrary to previous reports, there is at least a reference to the minority law in general. i assure you, commissioner, the romanian hungarians have not disappeared since october 2005. issues identified by parliament as particularly problematic were not raised. these are unsolved cases. and it's becoming increasingly clear that there is no political will to solve them, such as the adoption of a minority law with the foundations of cultural autonomy. or to provide higher education in hungarian. or the principle of local government. or to change the discriminatory election law. commissioner, the eu institutions have a great responsibility to help romanian citizens, including minorities, to recognise the opportunities of accession. the hungarian society in romania should therefore also benefit from the eu's methods and techniques of interest-based lobbying. this requires support from both bucharest and brussels. this community has received little help from brussels today. but you can still do it. from recognizing the possibilities to mastering the techniques. the competitiveness of the community will depend on this. so i am now handing you, commissioner, a letter from members of the european parliament, and symbolically, some of the many thousands of letters that people and ngos from transylvania have sent to you. we're waiting for those, i expect an answer in october.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i am pleased that both countries have joined the decade programme and are doing everything possible to ensure that roma integration takes place as soon as possible. however, the monitoring report reports overreach by police and criminal authorities in both countries. those problem areas shall continue to be monitored. the bulgarian report already mentions segregation in education, but i would like to see more attention paid to this issue in romania, where the same degree of segregation exists. according to some ngo reports, the proportion of roma among children classified as disabled is 80%. a week ago today, on may 9th, i received a report of police overreach. photos show the injuries inflicted by romanian authorities on members of the roma community. this is the third case i've heard of in six months. nevertheless, i voted in favour of accession for both countries. however, a significant difference between the two countries is that while bulgaria acknowledges the problems of roma, romania wants to hide and deny them. i would ask my romanian colleagues and the commission, commissioner, to call the attention of those responsible to changing this policy.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the delegation of the hungarian socialist party supports the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union on 1 january 2007. we have suggested this so far, not forgetting the many legitimate criticisms and suggestions. our support should not, of course, excuse the romanian and bulgarian governments from doing their utmost to address the shortcomings identified in the previous and current reports of the european commission and the european parliament. we hungarians will do everything we can to help them. but i do not understand the latest report by the european commission, mr olli rehn, which almost completely ignores the issue of minorities. would the problems that you had earlier complained about have been solved in the past six months? the european commission should take into account the adoption of the minority law, the return of church property and the establishment of a hungarian-language, state-funded university in the spirit of romania's previous decisions. mr. olli rehn, i'm not asking for anything more than what you described in your october 2005 report. you recently stated, commissioner, that romania cannot be asked to do more than the current eu members, whereas your previous statements did not take this as a starting point. the situation hasn't changed, just your position? this inconsistency is only partly explained by the lack of european standards on minority rights. so in the future, you always have to start from the situation in the country. it is wrong to refer to the old member states, some of which, and i do not want to mention france, deny the existence of minorities and would not accept them if they applied for membership today.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. we're starting to form a club for those who spend their evenings in this parliament. it's interesting that the questions that are always listed here are the same ones that the same representatives follow every night. i would like to begin by congratulating mrs pleštinská on her first report. like mr harbour, i hope that you will produce many more reports over the next three years, while we are here together as members of parliament. i would like to thank you for the very friendly atmosphere you have created both in the committee on the internal market and in the discussions and negotiations with the council to reach an agreement. this environment has led to agreement on all the issues at first reading and, hopefully, to the support of all the amendments. i have one more comment to make. mr harbour said that the new member states had been at the forefront of the adoption of internal market rules. at this point we must remember the work carried out by commissioner verheugen in this field, because without him we would never have been able to do this so effectively. he was then responsible for the expansion of the internal market. i think that the most important result we have achieved, returning to the report, is that we can better ensure the functioning of the internal market and the fairness of competition for all the players and stakeholders by starting this european funding, but without too much bureaucracy or, god forbid, creating another institution, which we love to do so much. i personally like the idea of making the work of existing, efficient institutions more efficient and accessible to all, with relatively little money. the legislation now to be adopted will ensure equal opportunities for business operators in the assessment of community aid and the management of public funds and will provide an open and transparent procedure, while - i stress once again - this is very important for us in the context of the better regulation programme and avoids unnecessary red tape. i personally regard this as the greatest achievement of the amendment which has just been prepared. i think it is very important to note that the proper and professional support of the community for standardisation is not an expense but a clear investment. investing in the better functioning of the internal market, investing in the enhancement of european competitiveness, investing in the information and protection of consumers of standard products and services, investing in the improvement of the market situation and opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, even if i agree with the commissioner quite clearly that this law is not intended to support small businesses individually. i want to thank again all of you for your cooperation with this legislation, and i hope there will be many more laws like this, and i hope for reach.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i would like to begin by thanking the negotiating delegation of the european parliament, in particular its rapporteur, mr böge, its president, mr lewandowski, and its colleagues, mr walter and mr mulder. they deserve to be mentioned for the hard work, which required great expertise, patience, international experience and genuine diplomatic sense, to reach the compromise on the financial perspective for 2007-13. we ourselves joined the preparatory work begun in the european parliament a year and a half ago with great enthusiasm, because we saw that this was not only a political issue that was going to determine the future of europe as a whole, but also a practical issue for catching up with the new countries. as new full-fledged european citizens, we understood that the financial perspective 2007-13 should serve a better europe, more competitive at global level, but it was also crucial for us to have a well-predictable, predictable structural and cohesion framework for the period ahead, after the integration period ending in 2006, in order to get up and running as quickly and effectively as possible. we agree with our colleagues that the present solution is not ideal, but we believe that it is also a good basis for the development of europe as a whole, and especially for the cohesion of the new countries.
mr. president, i have to ask you... we must see the process of globalization as an opportunity for freedom and social progress. globalization brings with it a greater need for human freedoms, but only if we make good use of its opportunities. i was thinking about the greek president's thoughts today. europe is the strongest bastion of humanism. it's important that we can say this in the future and make it clear to the outside world, as an example to follow. the eu is an international actor with a key mission to protect human rights, strengthen democracy and make globalisation a true achievement of social cohesion. i believe it is important that the eu should insist on the respect of fundamental human rights in its relations with third countries. it must make a pragmatic use of the opportunities offered by foreign trade in political dialogue. the strength of the report is that it warns that we need to look not only at human rights abroad but also at home. the report can certainly serve as a basis for not only adopting declarations on human rights in the future, but also for achieving and maintaining them. thank you, officer.
when we talk about the european community and the common european values, the protection of human rights must be the first priority. the european constitution will mark another major step forward by elevating the charter of fundamental rights to a constitutional level and creating an autonomous eu human rights protection system. one of the key motivations for europe's increased external engagement is that it can have a major impact on human rights when it speaks with a unified voice and is a particularly influential actor in international fora. the report also highlights the mixed and contradictory situation. although the european union remains one of the world's leading human rights defenders, it is more prominent in issuing declarations than in monitoring them, and in many cases does not integrate or promote human rights considerations into its other policies and programmes. however, it is welcome that the eu has been a strong supporter of the abolition of the death penalty around the world over the past year, with intensive work on the situation in china, chechnya and zimbabwe, for example, and on strengthening trade union rights in iran and cambodia. i consider it important that both the accession negotiations and the negotiations on the stability and association agreements should give priority to human rights in the spirit of copenhagen. i myself urge that in the contractual relations with the candidate countries and the countries participating in the stability and association process, compliance with the un and council of europe conventions, for example on minority rights, should also be given priority. i am convinced that parliament, as the only directly elected body of the european union, must play a leading role in the development of human rights and ensure that the other eu institutions also always have human rights in mind.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. - mr president, i have to go. the committee on budgets was pleased to deal with the financial aspects of these questions. we were pleased that our activities in the field of foreign policy and neighbourhood policy would be carried out in a more transparent and simplified manner in the future. there's a saying: bad neighborhood is a turkish curse. it was created in the times when most of hungary was occupied by the ottoman empire. we are interested in good neighbourliness, and i think this instrument will serve well to ensure that the union does not build walls, the chinese wall, around itself, but effectively helps its neighbours to prosper. it's also for our own safety. we supported the idea that, for example, self-financing could be waived on occasion, since there are many countries in our neighbourhood where individual organisations would be unable to fund such a programme on their own. i ask the house to support the motion and thank everyone for their work.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional development. – mr president, firstly i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr szent-iványi, for our positive cooperation on the drafting of the regional development committee opinion on the instrument for pre-accession assistance. my opinion is that this report is an opportunity to provide at all stages for the involvement of the european parliament in the control and management of the new ipa. in that respect, consultation is not sufficient. in fact, due to the budgetary and political character of the issues at stake, provision should be made for codecision procedures. i believe that the lack of visibility in the level of funding per country, objectives and components should be clearly addressed and that the new instrument should ensure clarity and predictability of the union’s commitments to its partner countries. moreover, proper account should be taken of the specific situations and potential difficulties of the beneficiary countries. alternative implementing arrangements should therefore be in force in order to avoid any shared management problems.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. in order to extend the many benefits of economic and political cooperation to neighbouring countries, the union has established what is known as the european neighbourhood policy. with the new european neighbourhood and partnership instruments, which are more flexible in many respects, the european commission proposes that the union will directly or indirectly affect some 400 million people in 17 external countries. the new financial instrument will have a very important and substantial added value in developing and promoting cross-border and regional cooperation, as well as in strengthening the rule of law and good governance. we have had a long negotiation process and although the commission has put a lot of work into this, i would not consider its attitude towards parliament to be necessarily cooperative on the four instruments. the commission and the council are aware that this house welcomes the simplification of procedures, but it does not accept that the parliament's role of control over the european union's external action or its budget should be reduced by invoking simplification.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the energy community treaty is a success story. it's worth saying, because as such, it's very rare in your species. the interplay between politics and energy today is more likely to fuel conflicts than to resolve them. from russia's manoeuvres to potentially threaten the eu's gas supply to the nationalisations in bolivia, which were enthusiastically celebrated by the left in this house just the other day, there are countless examples to prove this. the energy community treaty is a refreshing exception, a true european success story, of which the union can be proud. three years of consistent and sustained efforts will bring us closer to our goal of working together to modernise and rebuild the energy supply of the war-torn balkan region, which is so crucial for european security. i myself, of course, agree with this aim, and i also support and call for the control role of parliament in relation to the treaty to be ensured. i am also convinced that the stabilisation of the energy situation in the balkans will help diversify the eu's energy supply. i am confident that the contract will give new impetus to the implementation of the nabucco gas pipeline, which serves this purpose and which could be decisive in breaking the unilateral dependence of the new member states of central and eastern europe, including hungary, on russian gas imports. i am confident that all this can be achieved and that the creation of the energy community will be a tangible argument in favour of a single european energy policy, as advocated in the green paper. if so, the european union can produce new energy success stories and continue to be an attractive example of a political community for neighbouring countries and regions that want to catch up.
mr. president, i have to ask you... today is the day the new financial framework was introduced and we have to face up to its shortcomings. the commission has not been able to solve the impossible, and within this framework the union will not be able to make any breakthroughs in the areas of competitiveness, research and innovation, which were identified as priorities by the council and the commission. the commission's annual policy strategy does not promote economic reforms that are responsive to the challenges. it seems that the world and europe are not affected by the competition dictated by the emerging asian economies. member states may be able to meet these global challenges collectively, but individually they will inevitably lose out in the processes that are expected. the 2007 budget will be a disappointment because it should be strategic but it is only limited by its narrow limits. the budget is expected to be welcomed mainly by the new member states. they're no longer three years ahead of schedule, and now they're getting equal shares of development funds. they can make a big step forward if they overcome their childhood diseases and do not get stuck at the current level of 20 to 30% of aid use. finally, i would like to thank mr james elles, our rapporteur, for his critical and careful work. i hope that parliament's opinion will have an impact on the final form of the budget.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, i have to go. i was surprised to learn, as the opinion writer for the transportation committee, that the issue had been moved to the agenda. i think that the agitation and the acceleration of events, the debate on financial guidelines, on funds, have also played a part in the fact that we were not informed earlier about the compromises reached in the regional committee in connection with mrs krehl's excellent report, on which we will be voting tomorrow. our commission, the tran committee, of which i am an opinion writer, attaches great importance to the cohesion of a highly heterogeneous european union, and to the development of infrastructure and tourism as a means of achieving this. we recognise that, given the relatively limited community resources, all investment must represent european added value and stimulate additional economic growth. we are giving priority to the development of roads, particularly railways, across borders, as this is where business inertia and stagnation are greatest. we want to focus not only on railways but also on the development of inland waterways, which are both environmentally friendly and competitive. we give priority to the peripheral areas, since their approach cannot be solved on a market basis and their competitiveness and the stability of the population depend on rural development, including the creation of associated access roads and connecting roads. when financing the ten-t, it should be borne in mind that we cannot accept a ten-t centre limited to the old member states and that the cohesion fund cannot solve everything, for example in the baltics. we also in the tran committee have been advocating for complex urban transport systems, integrated development of suburbs and community support for this type of rolling stock. the development of tourist regions is a particular need, as it is appropriate and we must keep tourism revenue in europe. the commission therefore considers that the aid granted to ryanair and ams is compatible with the internal market. let us not be delusional, the magic of market-based infrastructure development in the new member states is not to attract private capital, especially in the peripheries, because solvent demand is low and returns are slow. that is why i support the use of the structural funds in ppp projects. then perhaps the economy will come into the investment. congratulations to the author, thank you for your attention and congratulations on the victory of barcelona, mr. president!
mr president, following enlargement, up to 46% more citizens are living in convergence objective regions, while available resources have not increased proportionately. this trend is about to strengthen with the forthcoming accessions of romania and bulgaria. it is therefore obvious that the question as to how to spend these resources in the most efficient way is of the utmost importance. the new member states, which are the main beneficiaries of cohesion policy, have specific socio-economic needs that need to be appropriately taken into account. therefore, i warmly welcome this document and the work of our rapporteur, mrs krehl, who committed herself to ensuring that the available resources will be used in an intelligent, efficient and concentrated manner. i particularly welcome the rapporteur’s recommendations on links between the cohesion policy and the lisbon strategy, as they will bring sustainable economic growth and lasting, quality employment. i also welcome the links between the partnership principle and the territorial dimension, as well as the emphasis on more environmentally sustainable transport, national resources management, equal opportunities, lifelong learning and urban development. it is paramount that we ensure that all member states will be able to adopt their national strategy frameworks in time, so that programmes can start as soon as 1 january 2007. what is at stake here is the union’s objective of economic, social and territorial cohesion. despite the legitimate disappointment on the level of available resources for cohesion policy, it will be possible with appropriate rules for spending and programme implementation to achieve a great deal of improvement with regard to helping those regions which are lagging behind to catch up in socio-economic terms. finally, i would like to add that i am optimistic and am quite sure that this report will attract broad support during the vote tomorrow.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. - mr president, i have to go. the roundabouts of a city in southern hungary, szeged, are named after major european cities. rather than being a sign of brotherly ties, the name refers to the fact that over a hundred years ago this city was destroyed by a flood and rebuilt by a solidarity that spanned europe. european solidarity was not invented by us, by the european union, and it has not only been in operation since 2002. this does not mean, of course, that the committee on budgets would not support the existence of the solidarity fund and the proposed changes to its rules. our committee wants to see an effective solidarity fund, not one that artificially narrows the range of those eligible. we appreciate the damage being reduced and have urged that the system be activated quickly. we think it's important that the foundation is in the flexibility instrument. the solidarity fund offers the union a great opportunity to make its existence clear to its citizens. it can make it clear that brussels is not only a bureaucratic bottleneck but also a helpful bridge. the debate produced a number of proposals that were more narrow than helpful. i think they're wrong. i thank the rapporteur for his thorough work, and i hope that this fund will be used rarely, perhaps never, not because of selfishly driven bad rules, but because of the lack of catastrophes that cause damage. i know it's a mistake, but i'm asking you to support these funds.
mr president, in my part of europe floods are the most frequent natural disaster, but this report rightly covers other kinds of natural disasters as well. as far as floods are concerned, neighbouring states should act together, as floods, like pollution, do not stop at borders. the flood prevention programme, like flood risk maps, should be set up not just for national states but for whole river basins. since the same kinds of disasters happen year after year, we have to make more effort in forecasting and prevention. the solidarity fund does not work in its present form. a new regulation is needed and it should help prevent environmental pollution as a consequence of natural disasters. we should not forget that environmental pollution is a very dangerous consequence of natural disasters in general.
the recent floods in central and eastern european countries clearly showed that, more than ever, an effective and rapid solidarity-based response of the european union to this type of major crisis is required. due to the recurrence of such events, it is of the utmost importance that the solidarity instrument should allow for appropriate eu level response to major crises. as with the instruments that are currently available, it is extremely difficult to react properly, as illustrated by recent events. i warmly welcome our rapporteur’s approach, which argues that the solidarity fund must be adapted to new challenges and that there is potential for improvement in the way it is used. major natural disasters within the union can cause significant human, economic and environmental damages as well as it can affect more than just one european country. we must ensure that effective and targeted community action is possible in areas where public opinion expects the community to act. in this respect, we must also ensure that fund’s financial resources match its geographically and thematically enlarged scope of application.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i voted against the berend report, even though it was a great report. this is because, while we have extended the scope of the solidarity fund - which now covers everything from industrial disasters to terrorist attacks - we have narrowed its territorial scope and in particular not extended it to areas in potential member states that otherwise border member states. we have excluded the entire western balkans from it, which i find very unfortunate, because if the danube floods, the solidarity fund will be valid in romania and hungary, but not in vojvodina. this is totally unacceptable and contrary to the eternal need to consider the neighbouring regions of the western balkans as potential member states. this is a specific case, and here egoism has won.
the european union is looking ahead to the future of its functioning until the 27 countries join. this is expected to be achieved by 1 january 2007. it is now urgent to answer the questions which concern the united europe, the common will to develop and the charter. where to next in europe? will the vision of a european federal state, championed by jacques delors, or a looser union of states, be realised? questions and answers to them must not prevent the will of the majority from being taken into account in the decision-making process in the european union. we cannot allow one state to hold us back. however, this requires a renewal of the union's institutional and decision-making system, since the union cannot expand further if it operates in the same way. without quality legislation, a more effective decision-making mechanism and a strengthened role for parliament, the union could lose not only its efficiency but also its ability to function. its being stuck in the current legal framework of the union reinforces the reason why citizens of two countries voted no to the constitution. the eu is not just an economic project, it is also a supranational institution for solidarity and the protection of social values. a lot of people miss the big emphasis on that. they must be made aware that this depends partly on the fate of the constitution and the effectiveness of the union. there is therefore a need to make eu lawmaking more human. we must present a united and positive image to the citizens, because to achieve our goals we need a united political will and not just words!
mr president, since the copenhagen accord of 1993, the admission criteria have been to ensure the rights of minorities. there is a great disparity between the minority protection systems of the 10 new member states and the 15 old member states. while the ten new member states have all ratified the two legally binding council of europe documents on the protection of minorities, the charter of languages and the framework convention for the protection of minorities, france, belgium and greece among the old member states have not yet done so. the old member states should therefore join the new member states in the protection of minorities. it is significant that regional and minority languages were completely omitted from the mavrommatis report on multilingualism recently adopted by the european parliament. it is significant that minority pages were completely omitted from the commission's plan d, which was launched to regain the trust of eu citizens, while every seventh european citizen uses a minority language.
it is of paramount importance for the union to recognise the role played by smes in our economy. in this respect, i am glad to notice that smes are at the very heart of the strategy of the new competitiveness and innovation framework programme. as a matter of fact, if our aim is to bring further productivity, innovation capacity and sustainable growth for the union, the emphasis should be put on the role of smes. in this respect, while reforming the programmes and the instruments for the next programming period, we should bring forward without distorting the markets the horizontal objectives of the union such as gender equality, environmental protection, protection of the disabled, the sharing of best practice, the promotion of lasting quality employment and economic growth. in the end, it will be the citizens of the union themselves within the framework of the objectives of the lisbon startegy that will be the real beneficiaries of the eu-wide promotion of competitiveness and innovation.
the rapporteur is the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - mr president, i have to go. the eu's own energy policy was born at the brussels summit in march this year. the adoption of a common strategy is a milestone, as only by working together can we overcome our pressing energy challenges. the new strategy must not focus on ensuring greater and even more wasteful use, but on more economical, more efficient and more energy-intensive recovery. it is the basis of our competitiveness, it is justified by ecological considerations, and it is in the interest of consumers. i am therefore particularly pleased that my proposal for the matter before us includes support for the modernisation of the energy efficiency of panel houses, which is a major problem throughout europe and in our country. i also consider that the incentive for energy efficiency service companies is a very important step, which is a market-conform and innovative solution. i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work and thank her for supporting almost all of my proposals as the rapporteur responsible for the committee on the environment.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. this is the second time that the situation of the roma has been the subject of a debate in the european parliament's plenary. the first time was a year ago, when the plenary voted by a large majority on the five-party resolution on the situation of the roma, the first ep document to deal exclusively with the problems of the roma population, and when we made recommendations. this was well before the commission's comprehensive report on the situation of roma in europe, but since the publication of these important documents, the situation has not changed much, as it has in recent decades, and in many cases has worsened. the work of governments in this area is spent on formulating sound action plans, but they often do not undertake to make real structural changes, to create the financial resources necessary for reforms, they do not punish inadequately for infringements, they do not control adequately for so-called roma projects, and the european union does not undertake to do so. over the past 17 years, the european union has spent 750 million euros on roma. more than one third of this was specifically targeted to roma programmes as a source of funding. more than half of roma children continue to be enrolled in segregated roma classes. in hungary, which is perhaps the only european member state to have promoted a progressive roma education policy, the number of segregated children has continued to increase in recent years despite desegregation efforts. more than two thirds of the working-age roma population are long-term unemployed. there are still closed settlements, ghettos, lack of prospects, dependence on aid and growing anti-gypsyism, which are leading to the social exclusion of new generations. however, perhaps an important development in recent years is that roma civil society has been strengthened and i am pleased that the commission considers it important to support it. following two decades of civil society efforts, and thanks to two years of hard work, we are also increasingly focusing on roma issues in our work as meps. the report on roma women that i wrote and discussed in today's debate could not have become a strong professional document without the civil society, such as the open society institute and the european centre for human rights, and other organisations and experts that we come into contact with in our daily work. it is important that the number of ngos working with roma grows year by year and that they become a driving force for the promotion of roma interests throughout europe. however, experience shows that this is very, very little to make a real difference in the lives of roma. a few weeks ago, a kindergarten teacher said that roma children in the roma settlements were not allowed to go to kindergarten because they were dirty. the roma settlement where the parents want to take the children to kindergarten has never been paved with stones, and concrete is not in the city's medium-term plans. the flood has washed away the settlement for the third time, washing hundreds of kilos of waste between their houses, as this gypsy settlement, like thousands of others, is located next to the city's garbage dump. the day before my visit, an elderly roma woman was left brain dead because the roma barely managed to get the ambulance out of the camp in 20 minutes. in january, a family of six in the same settlement had their house collapse on them one night, and they have lived next door ever since. twelve of us in one room. i often see a similar situation in the old member states, not just in eastern europe. i always get the same answer in the offices, neither the local government nor the roma leaders can help. this is the reality that a roma woman in europe today has to face every day. racial discrimination only aggravates this already existing disadvantage, making our daily lives more difficult in the form of open and covert anti-gypsyism that is intensifying across europe. roma face significant difficulties in employment, as there are areas in europe today with a high roma density and 100% unemployment. instead of the problem of reconciling family and work, the average roma woman has to struggle to produce food every day without a job, waiting for help, being handed over to loan sharks. yes, it's often because of low-level, segregated education, but more often because of the fact that when they apply for jobs, they're not immediately hired based on their skin color. this is particularly important to emphasise as we are now working to make europe even more competitive at a time when the continent's ageing population is growing rapidly. it seems reasonable to count on europe's youngest and largest ethnic minority, especially in the light of data suggesting that in some member states the proportion of the working-age roma population will be higher than that of non-roma by 2050. the countless documents, studies and publications that describe the situation of roma are not shelves or archives, nor is my report, nor is it a promotional material to promote a topic. these materials, along with the public hearings and expert reports that accompany my report, paint a shocking picture. the responsibility of politicians is enormous, as it is clear that the question arises how a united europe can face the challenges of the integration and globalisation of immigrants coming to europe, if the roma - who have lived in europe since the 14th century - and their problems are swept under the carpet by europe.
on behalf of the pse group. - mr president, i have to go. i find it extremely useful that a report has been produced on the situation of roma in the european union. i consider the cooperation in the preparation of the final version of the document to be exemplary. the early resolution of the roma disadvantage deserves support from several points of view, and its solution must be above and beyond party interests. on the one hand, because i represent a member state with a particularly large roma population, i am personally involved in finding solutions. on the other hand, roma face cumulative discrimination in almost all areas of life, due to their racial, ethnic and gender identity, often exacerbated by the risk of social exclusion and poverty. thirdly, the situation of roma women is particularly difficult, almost hopeless. although the report covers europe at 25, the situation of roma women in the new member states deserves special attention. it is not difficult to recognise that the problem is much more acute in the central and eastern european states, where the proportion of roma in the population is much higher than the eu average. the roma issue is much more than a social issue. it requires a comprehensive policy toolbox. the main objective is to combat social exclusion and marginalisation, to create a real equality of opportunity and social inclusion for roma. roma should be the winners, not the losers, of european integration and should benefit from it. we must keep the situation of roma women on the agenda if we are to achieve real change. it is necessary for member states to collect and publish accurate and comprehensive statistical data on roma and to ensure regular data collection in order to obtain an objective picture of the situation of roma. my colleague, the report of livia járóka is the result of a thoughtful, conscientious work. i recommend that the report be adopted.
on behalf of the alde group. - mr president, i have to go. i am pleased, as i have said before, that the european parliament is dealing with the situation of the roma in the european union for the second time. the report, which was prepared more than a year ago, and the resolution, deal with the situation of women, their employment, education, health status. however, it is essential that, like this report, the issue be addressed on a thematic basis, either in the form of such a report or a separate decision, or by the creation of new directives. it is essential that we try to tackle the problems mentioned by the honourable members who spoke before me effectively and with very great results. the aforementioned 750 million euros that the european union has spent over the last five years on the situation of the roma, or on solving the roma problem, as we heard earlier, has not only solved the situation of the roma, but has even deepened the roma problem. unemployment has risen in all countries, and in particular the number of discrimination cases has increased in the eu countries, as well as in the candidate countries. i thank the rapporteur for having been able to go around this subject, and i am fully supportive of myself and every member of the liberal group. however, very often the situation of roma women is treated with a paternalistic approach by the governments of the eu member states. in the fight against discrimination against women, neither roma women nor other women are asked what means, how the fight against discrimination should be carried out or started. it would be very good if we dealt with these issues, it would also be good if we did not mix roma traditions with the fight against discrimination, because it would be very dangerous for both the eu member states and other legislators to intervene in these issues, to interfere in the private sphere of the family.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the report of livia the traveler is historic in many ways. for the first time, the european parliament is discussing a comprehensive analysis of the situation of roma women and is committed to identifying the tasks for moving forward. he fears that we are less vocal and tough in our anti-discrimination efforts than we used to be. for the roma, a strong human rights stance has become particularly urgent since the 10th enlargement, and 2007 brings a new emphasis on excellence. the question of the union's identity is whether it can move forward along the path indicated in the report. do we want to use community tools to help educate roma children, to help them integrate into society? are we mobilizing the financial, legal and political means to help roma women find their place in the society they have been marginalized from? the report is an important and precise guide on this path. we must bear this in mind when we discuss the policy of aid and the structural funds. and let's not forget that without an attitude of acceptance, inclusion and respect for other cultures, even the best-intentioned help from a majority society can be destructive.
my fellow members of parliament! i propose that the report by járóka lívia on the situation of roma women in europe be adopted. although the report paints a very dark picture of the situation of roma women and roma in general, their multiple social disadvantages, their poverty, their vulnerability, the discrimination against them, especially in the newly joined and aspiring countries, every word of the report is true. roma are indeed among the most disadvantaged social groups: their life expectancy is lower than average; they are often excluded from health services; roma women are more likely to be victims of trafficking in girls; and the gap between the education levels of roma and non-roma women is unacceptably large. this situation was also confirmed by the two sessions of the european parliament's rome forum, held on 28 june 2005 and 22 march 2006, in which country reports were discussed and personal experiences were presented. the european union's legislators have already enacted a number of laws against racial discrimination and for equality for women, based on the union's values and policies. however, i am convinced that we need to do more, both in the member states and at eu level, in terms of legislation, in terms of raising awareness of human rights and in terms of punishing discrimination. even if appropriate legislation exists, its implementation by member states falls short of the eu legal requirements. this is why we need integrated community support and policy to create opportunities. to solidarity in the fight against poverty. the sources. resources that really change the situation of roma and roma women. for education, for employment. to develop the areas of weakness. i also consider the positive role of mass media to be very important in combating prejudice, in strengthening roma identity and in spreading culture.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to move an oral amendment. i should like paragraph 1 of my report to read: ‘welcomes the proposal to establish an eu institute for gender equality and urges the institute to focus intensively on the situation of women suffering multiple discrimination, including roma women’.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i propose that item b be deleted in its entirety - as the liberal group voted yesterday - because there is no evidence that the patriarchal tradition is the reason why roma women cannot have children when they want to.
rapporteur. – mr president, this paragraph is not intended to mean anything like that. it has already been discussed with all the other shadow rapporteurs and we are objecting to this amendment.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on the european year of intercultural dialogue and i am happy with its contents. however, one aspect of intercultural dialogue should be underlined: in many cases we refer to ourselves as ‘europe’ and ‘europeans’, forgetting the fact that a huge part of eastern europe, including the largest european nation – russia – is not a member state of the european union. we share the same european culture and heritage, but we hardly know each other’s contemporary art and culture. there are mass media broadcasts, false images and bad clichés about the everyday life of those countries. we should use the possibility of the european year of intercultural dialogue to get a true picture of the rich culture of russia and ukraine, as well as that of the former yugoslav republics. inviting young artists, students and journalists and encouraging cultural exchange between member states and the eastern european nations will strengthen our common european identity.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i voted in favour of the langen report at the end, but only because we accepted the oral amendment by mrs starkevičiūtė and i voted against it with my group on paragraphs 2 and 16. one is the inflation criterion and the other is the commission decision on lithuania. i would like to say that the reason for this is that it is simply outrageous that this very important matter is being handled in this parliament itself, and there has been no serious debate about it. it's outrageous that the commission makes a strategic decision, sanctioning someone first to expand the eurozone. you made a strategic decision because you're not submitting a dispute to us. this is unacceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think that overall the whole process is destroying not only the credibility of the european parliament but also the credibility of the union and the euro area in the countries that are now joining in 2004 or will join afterwards. the commission therefore bears a very serious responsibility, as does the part of parliament which did not wish to debate the commission's unilateral decision at length.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the potsdam conference of 1945 decided to deport the german population living in hungary, poland and the former czechoslovakia. starting on january 19, 1946, 135,000 german residents had to leave hungary. to all who declared themselves german-speaking in 1939. nearly half of them were from my constituency, and they had to leave their homes in late may, early june 1946. sixty years later, these days, many communities are commemorating these evictions with shocking and uplifting celebrations. i would like to share with you the message that we all heard at these commemorations. today, we have no more important job than to ensure that events like those of 60 years ago are not repeated. one of the greatest human and political achievements of 21st century europe is the creation of a common space of freedom and peace, in which forced evictions have been replaced by the free movement of people. peace among the countries of the european union is the greatest achievement, the foundation of all further achievements.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european commission has in recent weeks ordered on-the-spot inspections of several major energy companies. they aim to establish how competition in the european gas and energy market is realised. the early publication of the results of the studies is important for two reasons. first, ensuring undistorted competition in the energy market is crucial for the future competitiveness of the european manufacturing industry and the well-being of european households. secondly, in parallel with the commission's action, a debate has been launched here in the house on the possible creation of a common european energy policy, and the findings of the studies seem indispensable to this work. i would therefore ask the commission, using this forum, to inform parliament and the public of the outcome of the investigations as soon as possible after the investigations have been completed.
on behalf of the pse group . – mr president, i would like to welcome mr cashman’s report, which is as good as we expected it would be. the european union is facing a malaise in citizens’ confidence. the strongest message was the rejection of the constitution a year ago. the message that citizens are sending is clear. they demand more transparency and more openness from us. they want politicians and institutions to show more interest in problems that affect citizens personally. it is clear that various consultation exercises that have been undertaken at european level have had some effect: we are hearing the message now, but we should also listen. in order to do that, more resources must be provided for the various bodies that have the most direct contact with citizens and, without excluding any other body, personally i would start with the committee on petitions. as mr cashman’s report makes clear, the role of that committee is very significant in bringing citizens’ concerns and problems to the attention of european institutions. but as well as parliament providing more resources for the committee on petitions, other institutions, especially the commission, must provide more resources for reducing delays in responding to citizens. i therefore particularly support paragraphs 20 to 23 of the report and i hope that there can be a debate in all the political groups, as well as in the bureau and the conference of presidents, on how to reinforce our work to assist citizens. parliament should give that high priority during the second half of the parliamentary term.
mr. president, i have to ask you... 'brussels is far away!' is the resignation that many meps have no doubt heard from their constituents when trying to convince them of the importance of the role of the parliament. this view is also reflected - regrettably - in the statistics showing a declining voter turnout in the ep elections from one election cycle to the next. 'brussels is far away!' i was told by the hungarian firefighters who, some 41 years ago, travelled by bus for three days to hand over their petition in person at the parliament building. brussels was also far away, but only in a geographical sense. so they spoke with confidence, hoping for a positive outcome on their petition for regulation of their working hours. their petition was one of the first requests from the new member countries. however, the number of such submissions is very low, as can be seen from the report before us, which concludes that further efforts are needed to inform citizens in the new member states. however, our goal is not to increase the number of submissions on a purely personal basis. it is much more a matter of the right of petition being embedded in the european consciousness, in the old and new member states alike. the cashmen report rightly states that this would also be beneficial for the functioning of the union. petitions are a valuable source of information on the application of european legislation, shedding light on the shortcomings of the implementation process from the perspective of ordinary citizens. the experience of the past year and a half has shown that a number of proposals have been made, for example in the fields of environmental protection, social security or the internal market, which could help to improve certain eu directives. in the hope that this process will continue, and in gratitude for mr cashman's work, i naturally support the adoption of the report.
mr president, human trafficking is one of the world’s most profitable crimes. international criminal gangs are abusing the most vulnerable women and using them as sex slaves. from past experience – for example in athens, during the olympics – we have seen that international sporting events cause an increase in human trafficking. last thursday, on the eve of the world cup, several colleagues and i came to see you, commissioner, to discuss this problem and present two petitions. as president of the party of european socialist women, we launched a petition to call for action to prevent trafficking, particularly in the context of the world cup. we collected more than 23 000 signatures in two months. the largest trade unions in denmark joined us and handed over a petition with 80 000 signatures. there is a mismatch between the recent high level of public awareness and media attention, which is an extremely positive development, and, on the other hand, the widespread denial – for example, in several mainstream german newspapers and other groups in german society – of the link between the world cup and an increase in trafficking and enforced prostitution. for example, in der spiegel last thursday there was a report denying this link, as you mentioned, commissioner. it is significant that you do not agree, but i urge you to respond or to ask a german government representative to do so. it is essential that somebody of your standing should refute those denials. europe will have assessed the situation and identified a very serious problem. after the world cup, to ensure accountability, there needs to be an assessment of the scale of the problem in germany during the world cup, as well as an assessment of the measures taken. beyond the world cup, there is a need for a real debate across europe on tackling the root causes of trafficking for sexual exploitation. that means looking at how to reduce the demand for prostitution. could the commission also ensure that the eu reaches the target laid out in the prets report to reduce trafficking in women and children by 50% in the next ten years. we have succeeded in raising the profile of this modern form of human slavery and henceforth it is up to the political agenda, but we need concrete action on the ground from governments and the commission to get to the root of the problem.
mr president, i welcome the report and congratulate the rapporteur. this is a very important piece of legislation for us all. pollution does not respect borders and the same goes for groundwater pollutants. i tabled some amendments at first reading and have the same considerations at second reading too. i support all mandatory measures and instruments for member state cooperation on shared groundwater bodies. in hungary, 90% of all drinking water comes from groundwater, so without community-level limit values, drinking water standards can hardly be attained. generally speaking, international cooperation helps to ensure compliance with drinking water limit values. in the age of global climate change, drinking water is one of the most important endangered natural resources. we have to do our best to ensure the good quality of our drinking water. this is really a community-level issue. the nitrate trigger values proposed in the nitrates directive should be taken over as mandatory in the groundwater directive. we hungarians, both here in parliament and in the council, support strict legislation on this matter.
mr. president, i have to ask you... when we talk about hidden treasures in the ground these days, everyone thinks about oil and natural gas and rare earth minerals, but there's something much more fundamental: groundwater. in many countries, including our own, groundwater provides a large proportion of drinking water, nearly 90%. it is therefore important to protect this treasure from pollution, which can only be done through cooperation between countries, since groundwater sources do not conform to national boundaries. the natural processes that shape the composition of groundwater can also be measured over decades, so any pollution will affect not only us but also future generations. it is therefore important to have a strict legislation with a number of specific thresholds, which has frankly only partially succeeded, thanks to the resistance of some member states. but it's not over yet. i therefore support the proposals for the setting of specific nitrate limits and i also believe that agriculture should not be exempted from this. the exception for agriculture would undermine the effectiveness of the directive. of course, the austerity i advocate does not mean that we should forget about the different natural qualities of countries. just as the purity of natural waters is a rare treasure of a country, so natural pollution is a given that we are forced to accept, especially if there is nothing we can do about it. it is not worth burdening such areas with unenforceable regulations that impose unreasonable restrictions on human activity. "sanus per aquam" (health by water), says the roman proverb. let's make sure it stays that way. thank you very much, and i would like to congratulate christa klaß, the rapporteur, on her excellent work.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i join those who have praised mr. richard seeber's excellent and conscientious work. the danube and the tisza carry 120 billion cubic meters of water through hungary every year, and we are the first in europe per capita. unfortunately, because of climate change and human intervention, we have to protect ourselves from flooding more times a year than we do now, or more than 1,000 miles this april. each time, hundreds of millions of euros are spent on protection, and if a dam breaks, the damage is in the billions. it's time to realize that you can't fight nature, because you can't win that fight. we need a change of attitude, and that's what sustainable development is all about. it's high time that this shift in thinking also transforms our flood defences. this should be based on a comprehensive programme that gives equal weight to the priorities of flood protection, rural development and nature conservation. priority should be given to water conservation management using near-natural methods. to this end, land-use change and cost-effective management of the river basin should be encouraged. union agri-environmental aid should support the establishment of water management systems based on the retention of excess water from floods. decentralised renewable energy production based on biomass from biomass land should also be supported under greenhouse gas emissions trading. integrated territorial and rural development programmes shall address the infrastructure problems of the affected areas, in particular with regard to the renewal and maintenance of road networks between and within settlements. finally, the report's great merit is that it focuses on cooperation between countries bordering on the sea. it is not difficult to find a connection between the floods in tisza and the illegal forest theft in ukraine, romania and, more recently, hungary, which is being carried out by underground methods. i would like to call on the authorities of the countries concerned to do everything possible to combat the tragic scale of forest corruption in eastern europe.
mr president, last year we saw huge floods all over europe and we cannot forget those sad pictures of the endangered families, countryside and cities. flood victims ask politicians, with good reason, to act at national and at european level to prevent disasters. floods do not stop at borders. the flood prevention programme and flood risk maps should be set up not just for individual states, but for river basins. large international river basin plans must be coordinated at sub-basin level and measures taken in one country should not raise the flood risk in other states. this should be a basic criterion for any cooperation inside and outside the eu. floods are often followed by environmental pollution caused by industrial, agricultural and other facilities in the area, and sometimes the pollution is more dangerous than the flood itself. that is why flood risk management maps and plans need to take potential pollution sources into account.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i'd like to congratulate mr. gay and the associate for your hard work. i welcome the fact that the programme has given prominence to sectors such as frontier research, clean energy, nanotechnologies and social sciences. the latter will be particularly important in monitoring the social transformations brought about by the digital way of life, which is precisely what the development of science has brought about. however, it should be noted that, despite the increase in the total research budget, the annual research budget per european inhabitant has not increased. it is therefore important that we have managed to agree on the creation of a common european research area, which is capable of helping to catch up in a number of areas. it is important to mention here that for the new member states with a high level of expertise but limited resources, it is very important that the research infrastructure development should be supported by structural and cohesion funds in addition to the research framework programme. i'd like to add to the debate that i'm on the progressive side of stem cell research.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the new member states were not involved in the development of the rules governing the principles of the sixth framework programme at the time. but we were able to participate in the program itself, and we gained valuable experience. we have tried to bring the experience of the new member states into this interesting and important debate that we have had in the commission on the fp7 programme. i would therefore like to raise two issues in the plenary today. the first is the basis for eligibility. i'm in the position that it's excellence. excellence is what makes europe truly competitive. in my opinion, three conditions are necessary here. the first condition is to ensure access, networking, because that's the key to maintaining the quality of research. the second condition is that the structural funds should be better integrated into the construction of the research and development infrastructure. i have already voted in favour of this proposal in the context of the regulation of the funds. the third condition is to create large consortia, to really create a european research area and not have our researchers working in america or elsewhere. i mention, for example, the galileo project, which has allowed the development of new european infrastructure on a large scale. the second theme is, in short, the positioning of smes. the proposal that at least 15% of the costs of the cooperation programme should be allocated to smes is only to be welcomed. i myself have added to this proposal a proposal which our committee has adopted, which will make it easier for smes to access eu funds, especially in the case of pre-financing. i would ask the house to support my proposal as well, because it is based on the experience of the sixth framework programme. there is still a lot of work to be done, for example on the regulation of use, vat refunds and other issues, but i am confident that the seventh framework programme will bring us closer to the realisation of the single european research area.
within the context of the revival of the growth and employment lisbon objectives, the seventh framework programme plays a role of the utmost importance. as a matter of fact, the seventh framework programme aims clearly at contributing to the targets of the lisbon strategy as a whole, which in itself bears broad challenges. the development of a genuinely knowledge-based society is indeed a cornerstone for achieving the growth and employment objectives. it is now therefore one of the top priorities for the union as a whole through the development of research and innovation, the development of the union’s attractiveness and the promotion of new technologies. to achieve such objectives the current levels of funding of the sixth framework programme must at least be preserved. any budgetary cuts are therefore to be avoided. if the union wants to boost research and innovation within the framework of the growth and employment objectives, optimal use of available resources is required. efficient use of resources should of course go along with the simplification of the funding schemes to encourage the participation of smes in the framework programme. in this respect, i strongly welcome mr buzek’s report.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i come from the southern region of the hungarian plain, which is a real disaster-stricken area. in my hometown of sanko and its surroundings, 350,000 houseflies had to be destroyed in one week. all the european commission's requirements have been met, and the animal health authority has designated the appropriate areas. the slaughter of poultry began before the avian influenza virus was detected in the laboratory. this was the right thing to do, because the rapid action prevented the virus from spreading. the eu's previous strict epidemiological measures have proven to be correct. we are not asking the european commission for more money, but for more flexibility in the negotiation of the 2007-2013 rural development programmes, so that adequate resources can be provided for the poultry sector, for the reconstruction of farms and for the replenishment of new livestock.
mr. president, i have to ask you... it has swept the world repeatedly, leaving a trail of destruction and pain. i don't know if we'll ever get to the level of health that we need to be epidemic-free, but we're certainly not there yet. but in the midst of uncertainty, there is one thing we can be absolutely certain of, and that is that we have never been so prepared to face danger. i am glad that parliament is now discussing this matter because we can see exactly where we are, what we still have to do to be as prepared as possible. our preparedness for a possible influenza epidemic is based on national pandemic plans coordinated by the european commission. it is important that the plans cover technical tasks such as the establishment of quarantine areas, the procurement of appropriate antiviral supplies, the preparation of a list of priority vaccination recipients, the equitable distribution of means to be used against the epidemic or the regulation of transport and workplace behaviour. it is essential to take account of the communication tasks in addition to the technical tasks. in the event of a global pandemic, it is at least as important to prevent panic among the population within a given member state as it is to ensure that the flow of information between member states is accurate, fast and reliable. communication must reach all groups and strata of society, and this can only be achieved in a concentrated way by using all the means at our disposal. 'fish stink from the head' is a saying, so it is essential that the organisations coordinating this on the continents and at the global level can work together in harmony. in europe, who, the centre for disease prevention and control and the commission should work together as closely as possible, now and in the preparatory phase. i would like to congratulate mr adamou in particular on his own-initiative report.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. those who know russian politics and style know well that with a more realistic, more compromise-minded, pragmatic policy and reciprocal gestures we can achieve much more than with pressure. hungary has made a real turn in this respect over the past four years, with mutual apologies and concrete, pragmatic steps. it was a mistake for russia to discipline ukraine by shutting down the pipeline, and it was a mistake that western european consumers didn't feel. it is important that russia does not use such double standards in the future, and that the eu does not allow itself to be hysterical. there is a great deal of fear that the russians will acquire too large a share in the final phase of the eu energy sector, which is currently less than 10%, and joint ventures are very successful in germany. not only must russia be restrained from exerting pressure by restricting energy supplies, moldovan and georgian wine, and polish meat imports, but the eu must also be helped as a mediator to make russia's neighbours take account of geopolitical realities, of russia's geographical proximity.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i would like to congratulate the reporter ždanoka. this is a very important report. we need to clarify important concepts, since there are still many contradictions between the two directives of the european union. there is also a lot of controversy about the relationship between anti-discrimination and equal treatment, because we know that they are not the same. my colleague claude moraes has already mentioned positive action. but we haven't yet clarified positive discrimination, that is, the relationship and the system of relationships between equal treatment and preferential treatment, because if we measure inequalities with equal measures, it will re-create inequality. so we need positive action, positive discrimination, preferential treatment, to offset social inequalities. and what's very important is that individuals are never discriminated against. and those who are affected are affected not because of their personality, but because they are elderly, because they are women, because they are disabled, because they are members of a sexual minority or a traditional national minority or a new national minority. therefore, effective protection requires not only individual protection but also group protection. one of the greatest values of this report is the protection of traditional historical minorities, who are entitled to political participation, autonomy and self-governance, 'self-governance'. today, the union has no system for the protection of minorities, whereas one in seven citizens in the union belongs to a traditional national minority. finally, the debate should be concluded by saying that roma and stateless people as minorities within minorities should be given increased protection, and it is a shame that hundreds of thousands of people in several eu countries are stateless. this situation needs to change and we can only thank mr špidla for taking action to combat discrimination.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i would like to draw attention to a major problem which may have caused serious problems for the rapporteur, who has indeed done a very serious and effective job of putting certain issues and concepts in the report in accordance with their weight. that's what i call positive discrimination, or the question of autonomy, of self-government, of political presence in the area of traditional minorities. but i would like to draw attention to a very important phenomenon: the fact that under the general principle of non-discrimination, we cannot, unfortunately, find solutions for minorities in different situations in the same way. it's very important that if we're really looking for solutions and not just showcases, then we can take each community's own problems seriously. i would like to emphasize that we must distinguish between traditional and new minorities, sexual minorities and other minorities. if we do not clarify these concepts, these community problems - which are in themselves serious and require serious community action - we are not contributing to the solution, but to conceptual confusion, to misleading questions.
my fellow members of parliament! the report by tatjana zdanoka addresses, among other issues, a number of issues affecting roma that are important for achieving equal opportunities. i would like to speak about a very important area for the roma community, namely the collection of statistical data. in hungary, taking into account historical and legal aspects, it is very unpleasant to talk about the ethnic data collection related to roma. in my opinion, the statistical analysis of discrimination can provide data that can be useful to the roma community and, of course, to other ethnic and minority groups. these data are already available indirectly in hungary, for example, through under-education rates, data from underdeveloped regions to measure where roma live and can become data to measure the effectiveness of employment, housing and education programmes affecting roma. in this respect, statistical data can serve as evidence to assess the effectiveness of initiatives. they can also be an excellent tool in the fight against indirect discrimination, by providing a credible demonstration of the extent to which a member state has been able to apply the anti-discrimination directives incorporated in its legal system. we need to recognise the potential of monitoring, especially because the large number of programmes available to improve the quality of life of roma over the past decade have made little or no difference to the situation of roma. this is also because we did not have an empirical method to prove the positive or negative outcome of the initiative.
the report is an excellent overview and breakdown of the problems of discrimination, highlighting the pain points and the further steps to be taken. one of the most important tools in the fight against discrimination is education, because learning can be a springboard for those who are disadvantaged, and without an attitude of acceptance, inclusion and respect, even the best-intentioned help from a majority society can be destructive. the creation of equal opportunities was driven by the achievement of equal treatment. positive measures are important for the cumulatively disadvantaged, allowing for balanced representation in all areas of society. i am pleased that the report emphasises the need for specific legislation concerning those who are particularly disadvantaged, such as the roma. the increased exclusion of roma and school segregation is a typically new phenomenon in the eu. we welcome the opening up of the european social fund to wider social inclusion, including the funding of programmes promoting tolerance and social inclusion of minorities. but positive legislation and programming are only one side. the proper transposition of union legislation needs to be monitored more closely in order to ensure that it is properly implemented by the member states, and it also provides an opportunity to identify efficiency and the need for possible amendments. the fundamental rights agency could play a key role in this, the creation of which is unfortunately being postponed indefinitely due to the council's disagreement.
the report highlights the importance of fundamental european values and the need to transpose them into national law and make them effective in all member states. i think it is important that the 2007 year of equal opportunities should be given much more publicity than it has been so far. make every european citizen aware that freedom from discrimination and equal opportunities are everyone's right in europe. this means that there is a need to raise awareness of the relevant legislation and the remedies available. intercultural dialogue is needed in 2007 as well, as it can be one of the means of combating discrimination and of strengthening social integration and european identity. since discrimination is largely based on lack of knowledge,the problem must be tackled at an early stage: it must be given a place in education,the importance of tolerance and diversity must be recognised at an early age,and it must be valued: fear of each other and the resulting aggression must not become dominant between cultures. i agree with the rapporteur that the legislation needs to be complemented and i ask the commission,in accordance with point 26 of the report,to actively fulfil its duty as guardian of the treaties and to develop as soon as possible comprehensive legislation in the field of combating discrimination. at the same time, i would like to urge practical action and therefore propose that parliament, in an open system of coordination, should take account of the specific programmes for 2007-2008 and their results in each member state. i would like to emphasise the role of the media and the potential they offer in the fight against discrimination, since our aim is to reach as many people as possible and to give credibility to our policy in this area.
mr. president, i have to ask you... europe is a people's europe, because the european union is by and for them. at the same time, we feel the uncertainty and we raise the question marks, because we know that the decisions have been taken apart from the citizens, who tend to take the results of the community for granted, but solidarity is not natural for everyone, as you would like, mr president, and i deeply sympathize with everything you have said on this subject. the political impact of enlargement is behind the will of the 'no' voters, and solidarity has not become the way of life of the operation, whose future i hope for as much as you do. we want more solidarity and a democracy that is constantly growing, and that is why we need the constitution. but sometimes it is incomprehensible, because we, the new member states, have been constantly examining and examining democracy, respect for human rights, and we do not understand why the old member states have abandoned their previous initiative to establish the fundamental rights agency at the council meeting. and today, there was no one who questioned the importance of democracy, openness, transparency. but when it comes to human rights, why do we want to see through other people and not through ourselves, the eu member states? we will not be able to avoid community control in the area of human rights. a few words about the social dimension of the union: the european union was attentive to the challenges of the new member states. we consider the definition of the european social fund preference to be of particular importance in shaping social policy objectives. but for a social europe to be a social europe, we need to give more weight not only to the goals of competitiveness versus employment, but also to social cohesion, because without social cohesion there can be a breakdown not only within a nation but also at the eu level. i would like to note here that we are grateful that the roma problem has gained the momentum we have seen in recent times. and finally, there's the pick-up, who takes the express elevator to the designated floor, and there's the one who has to deal with the stairs. think of those who have toiled to climb the stairs.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i would like to touch on three key issues in relation to the enlargement of the union. first, the consolidation of the current enlargement cycle, i.e. whether we are admitting new members to the euro area on the same terms. that is, whether the eu will be able to enlarge schengen by next year. i mean, will the human rights agency that was already approved in the ep be created, or will we sabotage it? now that we see that, for example, a member state is applying sanctions against lithuania, which is applying for membership of the euro, for the first time, against the will of a member state. why is a price stability policy desirable for a country that is catching up? you want to use deflation as a reference? or was the prospect of a maastricht criterion better in italy, which was mortally indebted in 1999, than it is now in vilnius? why are they, through lithuania, educating the ten new member states on inflation, whose situation is getting worse? the spanish almunia or mr juncker's luxembourg? this approach is rightly labelled as shameful by one of the founding fathers of the euro, professor lamfalussy. and can the honourable council and commission take a political strategic decision not to recommend the admission of the privileged without parliament being so proud? where's the same size? secondly, are we really waiting for the commission's autumn assessment of the date and conditions for the accession of romania and bulgaria, when we have already ruled this out in our correspondence? we're going to be rushing into countries that are dramatically lagging behind the current states, or even the top ten, in terms of economic and social indicators and levels of corruption. what kind of europe will that be? what's the vision? will this be a law-abiding and law-enforcing society in the eu? where there is no registration, for example, of roma or land ownership, or where there are 10,000 abandoned babies? and what about europe's largest indigenous national minority, the millions who speak hungarian? why not bring up our own copenhagen declarations on minorities from 1993 or earlier parliamentary and committee statements on minority rights and democracy? third, we need to address the individual bargaining scale and speed. when will it finally emerge in the enlargement negotiations that croatia is prepared, that its european integration is outstanding and that it means an absorption facility compared to, for example, the turks? without consistency and the same degree of coherence, the eu's prestige remains low and it is clear that, by building on two-stage integration, they are taking back all that they are forced to spend on enlarging the union. this is the real, but negative, term.
mr president, my main problem with the commission’s environmental proposals is that they do not correspond with the objectives of the sixth environmental action plan. as far as traffic is concerned, the sixth eap stressed the decoupling of transport goals and gdp goals. however, the commission’s new strategy does not propose legally binding measures and deadlines. it is all very well to speak about wanting fewer private cars and more environmentally friendly public transport, but without legally binding measures these are only empty words. if we want to have less air pollution and more public transport, we have to act. as the rapporteur on urban environment, i propose legal measures and targets to increase the rate of environmentally friendly transport. i hope that the commission and the council will return to the policy of clear targets and measures. listening to mrs grossetête, i also hope that the ppe-de group will support my amendments and my report about having binding measures and targets concerning the urban environment and traffic.
mr. president, i have to ask you... in the context of the motion for a resolution before us, allow me to say a few words on the link between sustainable development and energy economy. the document rightly emphasises that energy production and consumption is one of the key factors in achieving sustainability. we are right to re-formulate our objectives on this basis, as we have done so many times before, in the context of increasing energy efficiency, reducing greenhouse gas emissions or promoting renewable energy sources. however, it is clear that there is a significant backlog in the further development of the sustainable development strategy adopted in gothenburg in 2001. it is worth considering why this is so. i am convinced that the lack of an effective market economy environment can be a major obstacle to achieving our objectives. the motion for a resolution encourages the exchange of national experience, and i would like to illustrate this with an example from hungary. in hungary, where the rate of renewable energy deployment is unfortunately one of the lowest in the union, the long-term operation of polluting power plants is protected by monopolistic relationships and contracts that run counter to market logic. these contracts, together with the unpredictable and also contrary to market logic public electricity purchase regulations, make it practically impossible to exploit wind energy, for example. and as long as this practice continues, there is very little chance that we will achieve our sustainable development goals. we therefore need to create an efficient, competitive and cost-effective energy market, without which an environmentally sustainable society is only a pipe dream. only if this is achieved will the gothenburg strategy become a reality. i hope that this is the reason why i support this motion for a resolution and hope that we can return to this question when the european parliament is discussing the development of a common european energy policy.
mr. president, i have to ask you... mr. minister, i would like to thank you personally and the austrian government for taking action and for making a promise that as of july 1st, no pollution from the jennersdorf leather factory will flow into the river rabe. i think we can agree that the austro-hungarian border should be a kind of green belt, a bastion of ecotourism. that's why i ask you, do you see a possibility that the geothermal project in fürstenfeld, which pollutes the lapincs, or feistritz, river, could be solved?
mr. president, i have to ask you... the report deals extensively with the issue of cigarette smuggling. it is very important to fight cigarette smuggling because it threatens not only our financial interests but also the health of our consumers. smuggling is a particularly serious problem in hungary, where taxes are substantially higher than in the surrounding non-eu member states. as a result, the market for tax-free cigarette products has now grown to 25%, causing huge damage to the hungarian budget. the source of the smuggling is ukraine, romania and other balkan member states. i would like to emphasise that there are duty free shops on the hungarian-romanian border, where travellers can bring in cigarettes duty free, which are then often sold in hungary and other eu member states. in view of the forthcoming accession of romania, these duty free shops should be closed immediately by the romanian government. in any case, after romania's accession to the eu, we will still have to deal with smuggling, because romania has been granted a temporary exemption to reach the minimum tax level, so we will have to keep an eye on whether romania is able to enforce the european union's income rules, whether it is able to prevent smuggling to other member states, such as neighbouring hungary. but of course this is not only a question of cigarette products, but also an important issue for the market of alcoholic beverages, due to the disorder of the romanian market and the transitional exemptions.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution. within the european union, blatant racism is still widespread, and no group suffers more than the roma. there have been many reported cases of verbal, emotional and physical attacks on the roma, including several committed by police forces. although this resolution fails to make sufficient mention of the roma issue in particular, it is essential that parliament work to conquer racism in all areas of europe.
he's a writer. - mr president, i have to go. the primary purpose of this debate today is to save the life of an innocent man. son jong nam, a 48-year-old north korean man who was arrested by the north korean authorities in january 2006, tortured, and sentenced to death without trial. date of execution unknown. we very much hope that he is still alive and that the international protest will lead to his release. son jong nam is an innocent man. his crime is that he left his country because he couldn't stand the oppression, converted to christianity, was deported by the chinese authorities, and made statements criticizing the system. that is, he was merely exercising his basic human rights. that's why the death penalty is the law in north korea today. her case is a drop in the bucket illustrating the dire human rights situation in north korea. tens of thousands are in camps, forced labor camps, political prisoners are constantly tortured, many are executed, a large part of the population is destitute, many, millions are starving in this country. the leaders of this country are responsible for their citizens, and i very much hope that they cannot avoid accountability. the european union has repeatedly indicated its willingness to engage in human rights dialogue, but this has always been rejected by the north korean authorities. we are also ready to provide humanitarian aid, but only if we are sure that we can deliver aid to those in need, we do not want to support the state authorities. finally, we find the practice of the chinese authorities unacceptable. the chinese authorities are continuously repatriating north korean refugees, knowing that most of them will be immediately sent to camps, and we call on the chinese authorities to act in accordance with international refugee law standards. and we call on the european commission and the european council to take a much stronger stand against the north korean leadership, to make it clear that we are not indifferent to how people live in north korea, we are in solidarity with them, we want human rights to be respected in north korea.
i would like to join those who thank the austrian presidency for the planned process, for what has been achieved and for mr winkler personally. mr. chancellor, i hope all this rosy praise doesn't hurt mr. winkler, but it was a pleasure working with him. on the matter of the constitution, i want to thank you for moving the process very firmly in the direction of planning the work ahead and not the funeral of a supposedly dead man. these statements, which are far more vulgar than true, are not worth debating, but they are worth asking, and many have already said so, whether we have done enough to make citizens feel that the european community is not just a strict controller who punishes and always gives little money, but that behind the joys of our lives that we are living, there is the strength of the european community and there is our common future. the national parliaments and national governments have a very large responsibility in this. this shared responsibility must be revived and strengthened. i was very pleased to find such an emphasis in the council's launch programme on the exploration of the real social conditions of the union and the tasks of moving forward. i have to say that we are still in the same situation today, since the president of the commission has spoken of integrated impact assessments and the assessment of the social impact of legislation. and so i ask you to shine a light not only on gender equality, but also on the depressed, the elderly, the marginalized or the marginalized, the roma and the immigrants, and the children, the poor children. their rights are european law and that requires a constitution.
mr president, the austrian presidency has been marked by numerous initiatives and challenges on gender issues. political agreement was reached on the draft regulation establishing the european institute for gender equality, and conclusions on the review of the implementation by the member states and the eu institutions of the beijing platform for action and on women’s health have been adopted. the roadmap for gender equality was presented, which can be marked as a milestone and a concrete timetable for key actions on gender equality for the period 2006-2010. i welcome in particular the commitment to produce a communication on the gender pay gap next year. this is something on which pes women, of which i am president, has done a lot of work. we need concrete actions. the legislation dates back to the 1970s but there has not been much progress. the average difference in the eu is still 16%. the grave situation as regards the trafficking of women has been put at the centre of attention in association with the fifa world cup. i have strongly welcomed the campaign launched by german women, showing the red card to forced prostitution and calling for cross-border cooperation in the promotion of the red card campaign, putting forward the idea of zero tolerance of trafficking throughout europe. on the eve of the world cup i handed over the final list of signatures to the anti-trafficking campaign to commissioner frattini. the largest trade union in denmark handed over a similar petition with 80 000 signatures. the pse group collected 23 000 signatures calling for action by eu member states to prevent the trafficking of women into germany to work as prostitutes during the world cup. commissioner frattini was asked to report back after the world cup with an assessment of the scale of the problem and a summary of the actions taken. there is need for a real debate across europe on tackling the root causes of trafficking for sexual exploitation, and that means looking for ways to reduce the demand for prostitution. the eu should intensify the fight against trafficking in human beings. note that we are not going to stop pressing the eu to take this issue seriously. in conclusion, i wish the music of mozart not just for the elite, but for all.
my fellow members of parliament! mr. president, i have to ask you... let me first of all congratulate the austrian presidency of the eu and president wolfgang schüssel on the work and achievements of the last six months. the austrian presidency faced real challenges in its work. the future of the constitutional treaty requires further work before a final and hopefully positive decision can be made. the parallel approach seems to be the right approach, which continues to negotiate the future of the contract on the one hand, and on the other hand focuses even more decisively on concrete outcomes, projects that better support the day-to-day processes. in this respect, i find the list of successful initiatives that can be implemented by 2010 very useful. i consider it a particularly significant step forward to have agreed a timetable for the continuation. i regret, however, that the austrian presidency has not been able to take any real, substantive decisions on issues that have been constantly delayed, such as the regulation of working time. however, i welcome the initiative to adopt a solemn political declaration on europe's values and aspirations at the eu summit in berlin in march 2007, to mark the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome. i agree that council meetings should be open to the public in the case of codecision procedures, and i support the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu, hoping that this will also improve the situation of the hungarian minority. the new finnish presidency will have to deal with a number of unresolved issues, with the future focus on economic reforms, social justice, security and stability, and europe's role in the world.
fifty years ago, in june 1956, the first uprising against the dark dictatorship descending on central europe erupted in poznan, poland. as a hungarian representative, i consider it particularly important to commemorate the heroes of the poznań democratic movement, since solidarity with them was one of the foundations, the motivation of the hungarian revolution that took place in the autumn of 1956. although the communist dictatorship in central europe collapsed only decades later, in 1989, it is clear that the heroic sacrifice of thousands of poles and hungarians was the first step toward freedom. these social movements for democracy and civil rights showed the world that the love of freedom of the polish and hungarian people could not be suppressed, could not be, even in the face of soviet tanks and collaborating communists. we in europe, in the european parliament, are building the europe of the future, but to succeed we must know our history accurately. we must not forget that 50 years ago, the basic values of democracy, freedom, independence and human rights were so precious that thousands of people were willing to sacrifice their lives for them. only in this way can we appreciate the results we have achieved together.
these days we celebrate the 550th anniversary of a world-wide victory. that a hungarian border fortress, then called nándorfehérvár, now belgrade, had 10,000 soldiers who stopped the 100,000-strong turkish army. this was a great victory, for three years after the fall of constantinople, not only the balkans but western christianity was in peril as the sultan moved across the danube. relieved and delighted, the pope ordered that the church bells be rung every noon. that is why churches of christendom have had a southern bell for over half a millennium. after the victory of the white knights, for 70 years the turks did not dare to threaten the western world in the huge social and economic development that was developing, so capitalism could take root. the victory also showed that christendom was unified in its ability to defend its values, for the western european mercenaries, even those on the turkish side, had a share in the victory over the majority. a strategic alliance was formed between the catholic hungarian kingdom and the balkan peoples, mainly the serbs and albanians, and later the habsburgs. but unfortunately, the crusader volunteers came only from hungary and our eastern european region, even though solidarity should have been two-way, as it is now.
the nabucco pipeline was signed in vienna last week. this is clearly good news when we continue to receive mostly negative news about the natural gas market. after the supply disruptions at the beginning of the year, new problems are forecast for the winter, prices are rising, notwithstanding that russia is increasingly clearly considering its position on gas supply as part of its political tool. europe and its consumers are therefore increasingly vulnerable. in this situation, the nabucco pipeline's capacity of 20-30 billion cubic metres per year would already result in a significant increase in the security of supply of the union within a decade. nabucco represents both a diversification of the transit route and the source of supply, as opposed to proposals which could only be an alternative to the existing infrastructure in terms of the transport route. on this basis, the declaration of intent last week is welcome and it can be said that nabucco has no real competitor today in terms of expanding the union's natural gas supply.
mr president, i should like to point out to you a new case of discrimination which has recently occurred. my colleague rented a car from europcar in brussels to go to strasbourg. the agent of the rental company explained that the car could not be used in the eastern countries and drew the forbidden areas. i found this very curious because europcar works in all the new member states. how is that possible? i personally rented vehicles for two years in budapest, and i was able to travel from budapest to brussels. but i did not travel from brussels to budapest in a car from the same company. the explanation given was that this was a very dangerous area. statistics show that in slovenia and hungary, fewer cars are stolen than in some of the other eu-15 countries. it's a small detail, but it's reminiscent of the polish plumber.
i would like to congratulate mr muscat and all those who have contributed to the report, for it has been a thorough and substantial work, and a balanced report has been produced. two factors have an important influence on the consolidation of financial processes in my opinion. one is to build the internal market and increase competitiveness in the context of the lisbon process. the second is to achieve cohesion and equality and unity among member states, while taking advantage of the benefits of market enlargement in the context of enlargement. unfortunately, the balance has been lost in the latter respect. while the sensitivities of the new member states are being overshadowed by the call for greater openness in financial processes, the sensitivities of the old member states are decisive in labour-intensive services, rather than internal liberalisation. this upsets the balance of the service sector. i would like to conclude by saying that i cannot accept the inclusion of social or environmental considerations in the consolidation of the financial services or the financial sector. i also think it's important to move forward with minimal consideration of solidarity. the market surveillance authorities of the host member states - and the new member states essentially as such - should not be placed in a vulnerable position vis-à-vis the dominant supervisory authorities of the old member states. only after a well-developed cooperation and, above all, transparency drive, can we move forward in the area of liberalisation. i myself, however, agree that the change in tax regimes, particularly in the vat area, should be helped to facilitate concentration. at the same time, i would like to stress that excessive concentration through acquisitions and mergers must be analysed not only in the context of the emerging internal market but also in the context of cohesion in emerging countries. it is possible that excessive concentration, not at community level but at member state level, is created and is detrimental to competition within the country. this is why, as recent examples have shown, it is necessary to pay particular attention to this in competition impact assessments. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected.
over the past decades, technological advances, tourism, and economic globalization have led to a dramatic increase in the number of people flying. unfortunately, this has led to a corresponding increase in the number and scale of environmental problems caused by aviation. aircraft currently account for only 3% of total eu greenhouse gas emissions, but with a rapid growth rate of almost 5% per year, it is time to act. europe has taken the lead by committing itself to action in this area in accordance with the principles laid down in kyoto. pioneering, however, is always a risky business. therefore, it is necessary to ensure that the measures taken do not put european airlines at a competitive disadvantage. at the same time, we need to find a solution that effectively incentivises the industry to reduce air pollution. i personally believe in market instruments and can therefore only support the introduction of a properly designed emissions trading system in this area as well. it is important to make the most of the reserves that are still hidden in the present imperfect system. i am thinking here primarily of optimising air traffic management. this is not only important because of air pollution from aircraft, but also because of noise pollution. the reasonableness of military bypass routes shall be reviewed and every effort shall be made to avoid overflights of populated areas. the growth of air traffic is making life more difficult for more and more european citizens and is increasingly leading to public protests. the principle and the purpose are clear. increased mobility should not have adverse effects on our health or the state of our environment. i hope we can achieve that, and i congratulate the rapporteur on the self-initiated material.
for years, we have heard in various european forums about the importance of the european union being closer to its citizens and making the functioning of its institutions more transparent. the adoption by the union of the aarhus convention is a major step in this direction. environmental protection is perhaps the area where civil society is most keenly interested in the performance of our institutions and wants to be involved in decision-making as well as access to information. finding the balance between the growing public and the maintenance of the institutions' functioning is not an easy task. it would be wrong to create a situation that would lead to the excesses of the court proceedings. i think that we can expect civil society organizations that want to exercise their rights to act in a way that respects the law, and in return we don't restrict their rights with unjustified exceptions. i am therefore disappointed that the final version of the proposal does not extend the right of access to projects funded by the european institutions. we can hardly expect citizens to feel part of a europe which, while accepting certain principles, is also prepared to finance objectives that run counter to them. europe must also set an example for the member states in this respect, as we have just heard. overall, i'm convinced of the benefits of social control. i know that in the eyes of the bodies involved, this - social control - can be confusing, it can seem superfluous. yet, at the level of society as a whole, it ultimately leads to better decisions than those that are made without the participation of citizens and their organisations. after all, that's the basis of democracy, isn't it? thank you very much and congratulations to my colleague, mr korhola, on a job well done.
schuman and delors' dream is coming true. within the union, the borders that separate peoples, nations, and conflict, which hinder trade and political and cultural convergence, will disappear. european citizens are increasingly able to live within natural regions, which are not shaped by political arbitrariness, by post-war border changes, but by natural, historical development. in the spirit of subsidiarity, regions often manage their affairs through crossborder cooperation. this is one of the eu's greatest achievements. for hungary, crossborder cooperation is gaining even more importance with the accession of romania and bulgaria in 2007 and later croatia. for the hungarian communities beyond our borders, for the millions of hungarians living in romania, slovakia and other neighbouring countries, joint developments are helping to make borders virtual. joint planning and joint implementation reinforces their sense of identity, their cooperation with people who have lived together for centuries. it helps to eliminate prejudices that have long been the cause of ethnic, minority problems. the historical regions in which the peoples and nations of central europe have lived for centuries are being restored. economic necessity strengthens the cohesion of the nations of the common european family. european crossborder cooperation is a logical and good solution for a rational cooperation between local government bodies, ngos and ngos in many different places, extending the principle of equal opportunities. i can only support this on my own part, and i am glad that the union is providing substantial support for this.
[introduction is not heard.]...and with good reporters we managed to catch up. it is now up to national governments to decide whether to launch a new regional policy in 2007. they have a responsibility to ensure that national development plans are ready, that they are based on consensus, and they have to, especially in the new member states, bring in the kind of backlog that we have seen in the last few years. they haven't been successful before, but now they can be. i welcome the fact that the eu-15 was also given the opportunity to vote in the december council to buy christmas presents for the new member states. these benefits will be available to all member states. i am glad that parliament has also found a way to support the planned renovation of the poorest neighbourhoods and in this connection has managed to deal with a specific situation such as the hasty and excessive privatisation of housing in some of the new member states. i support any effort to ensure the utmost transparency. where there's a question of subsidies, there's also a risk of corruption. where there has been a one-party system for decades, publicity is particularly important to avoid the appearance that the governing parties are continuing the practice of governing and allocating funds as in the past. good legislation is being produced, but it is appropriate to review the effectiveness of cohesion policy mid-cycle. we'll be ready to make it even better if we have to.
i join my colleagues in welcoming the constructive nature of the cooperation between the council and parliament. i welcome the fact that in the european social fund, the council and parliament have confirmed the task of integrating vulnerable social groups, alongside efficiency and competitiveness versus employment. competitiveness and social cohesion are mutually reinforcing objectives, and that is why we are europeans. this is how we will ensure that the fault lines do not divide europe into two - old and new, for example, as many have said - but that the internal barriers of poverty and deprivation within the individual member states are also dissolved. the framework regulation now raises the question: what will make a european quality of life for all european citizens? i'll try to help you answer that myself.
cohesion policy can be a symbol of the european spirit, based on genuine solidarity across europe. especially if we put rules alongside money that allow even the poorest parts of europe to benefit from the development opportunities it provides. two years ago, 10 new member states joined the european community, typically from poorer regions. the regions of these countries have gone through a different development path than their western european counterparts. accordingly, they had other problems to solve. in the course of two years of hard work, which has been fraught with debate and struggle, it has been possible to devise a flexible and effective system that is also able to solve the problems of new regions. we can celebrate the settlement in earnest. with our successful vote tomorrow, we are setting an unprecedented perspective for all the regions of europe. we can create jobs, we can build roads, we can renovate apartments. we can start building a new europe and bring eastern and western europe closer together, not only politically but also in terms of the quality of life of our citizens.
we hungarians are proud that we have given the world dozens of nobel prizes over the past century. but we rarely remember that these brilliant minds, almost without exception, received this recognition far from their homeland. most of these scientists have received such awards for their work in the united states. martians this was the name given to a group of hungarian scientists at the famous los alamos research center in the united states. they were called "martians" in later times in america because of their extraordinary intelligence, as if they were from another planet. they were not from another universe, but from another continent, europe. better research conditions, greater recognition, they brought the knowledge they had acquired in their home country to the united states. it's a 20th-century story, but we can't believe that the process of brain drain is over. europe is still home to some of the most brilliant minds in the world, yet a comparison of statistics on research and development leads to the worrying conclusion that we are seriously lagging behind the united states and japan in this area. the report before us rightly states that the backlog is due, on the one hand, to the fact that not enough research is being produced in europe to be used in the business sphere. the gap between theoretical knowledge and practical application is a serious handicap to the european union's competitiveness. the other reason for the backlog is still a lack of resources. the target of 3% of the eu's gdp for research by 2010 now seems illusory. the tasks are therefore clear: more resources, strengthening applied research, and recognition of the research career. without them, the lisbon strategy will remain elusive.
this own-initiative report on the implementation of the lisbon programme comes at the most appropriate moment now that we are on the eve of finalizing the negotiations on the new cohesion policy legislative package. the revival of the lisbon strategy's growth and employment objectives is an important aspect of this renewed legislative framework as too much delay has already been taken on the aim of making europe the most dynamic and competitive knowledge based economy. in this respect, i can only support the report of mrs. del castillo vera and its emphasis on improving the european research and innovation environment. more specifically, i would like to welcome the focus on the potential of small and medium size innovative enterprises for achieving lisbon agenda's objectives as well as the demand to foster public and private funding to optimise community's financial support. finally, i it is worth underlining, according to mrs. del castillo vera own-initiative report, that there is indeed an urgent need to better harmonize the coordination and the cooperation between the different national strategies if we really want to raise europe's growth and employment potential.
thank you for your response, even if it did not address the specifics of the investigation. if i may, my supplementary question will be a general question accordingly. i share your view that there may be problems with the development of the internal energy market. my question is whether the instruments of competition policy will be sufficient to deal with these problems in the future, or does the commission consider that there might be a need to set up a european energy regulatory body which would, of course, deal primarily with cross-border transactions? thank you very much.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the introduction of new technologies. the health and safety of european citizens must be at the heart of nuclear regulation. i am convinced that by adopting the seppänen report we will fulfil this obligation and make the euratom directive 92/3 more effective. i think it is very important that the regulation is in many respects on the right track. it ensures the accurate tracking of radioactive waste and, now, fuel for recycling, but does not apply unjustified restrictions and prohibitions. second, it guarantees the safety of citizens without imposing disproportionate burdens on economic operators. finally, while it extends the scope of regulation, it does not break the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. although the new regulation puts new guarantees in the hands of the people, member states remain responsible for the regulation that suits their national specificities and for the functioning of the authorities that ensure its implementation. however, this last point also means that, in addition to the common refinement of the legislation providing a stable basis for security, the effective functioning of the national authorities constituting the structure is also necessary in order to ensure that all citizens of the european union can enjoy the increased security provided by the new directive. it is also of paramount importance for the future of europe's energy supply, because it is good to be aware that the success of this complex operation is also the key to people's confidence in nuclear energy.
mr prime minister, we, the newest members of the european union, have learned a lot from finland and from you personally. you have had fresh experience of the accession process, and we therefore very much hope that your presidency will be sensitive to the problems and problems associated with integration. the two-year-old admission date is just the beginning. the fight for equal treatment and equal rights within the union, for the same standards, must continue. the great historic undertaking of european reunification and integration is a long process. this is well illustrated by the debate on the services directive or lithuania's membership of the euro area, and by the existing uncertainties and unfortunately the existing mistrust and double standards towards new members. it is therefore very important that when we talk about further enlargement of the union, we do not forget that we also have to deal with the effects of the last enlargement, the largest ever, in 2004, and to take account of the capacity of the union to absorb new members. the recent enlargement of the union and recent events also highlight the importance of strengthening the democratic values that are at the heart of our common europe. yes, mr martin schulz has just spoken with a great deal of fire in the fight against extremism, but it is not just words that can be used, but actions. you have the socialist party, which won the slovak elections, sitting in your ranks, and it has chosen a partner whose main political message is limited to attacks on minorities, hungarians, gypsies, gays. this should be a rallying cry all over europe. it also highlights the weak position of pan-european protection of minorities in the european union today. the european commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the eu's human rights policy. finland, which has an exemplary minority policy, must show the way in this matter. the finnish presidency coincides with the 50th anniversary of the hungarian people's revolution on october 23. we often talk about the crisis of the union today, let us help to renew it by drawing inspiration and strength from one of the most significant freedom struggles of the 20th century to solve our problems today. good luck running for office.
the austrian presidency has faced real challenges, some of which are now being faced by helsinki. among these, the future of the constitutional treaty deservedly stood out, requiring more consultation and more active action. i would like to welcome the finnish initiative which envisages better legislation while respecting the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. new decisions would need to be taken alongside updating old ones, taking account of economic, environmental and, above all, social considerations. i agree with president barroso that the finnish balance can bring harmony to the eu's stormy politics,providing an opportunity to promote the union's innovation policy. the mobility of researchers, students and the strengthening of european know-how are essential elements of this progress. it is now vital for european citizens to know more about the eu's institutions, how they work and the decisions that affect their lives. the finnish presidency's ambition to create an eu that works with its institutions and communicates more effectively with its citizens is therefore highly commendable. i also agree with the regulation of national veto rights to ensure more effective enforcement. i support the helsinki human rights policy,which stresses the need for unified action to protect human and fundamental civil rights. i believe that it is important to take joint action to prevent illegal immigration, but above all to prevent trafficking in human beings and exploitation of workers. the european union can only respond successfully to the growing challenges of globalisation by consolidating european democracies and by pursuing a well-organised social policy.
we welcome the commission's proposal, because the establishment of the mutual information system aims to avoid tensions between member states and to strengthen cooperation in the field of asylum and migration. i congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that he has presented his report in a progressive and improved way. the establishment of a level of political consultation could provide a forum for governments to consult before taking decisions and thus to approximate national legislation. the commission's intention to compile a summary of the legislation adopted by the member states is welcome, providing a comprehensive overview of the legislation in force in the union and an assessment of the member states' activities from an eu perspective. we also agree that the document prepared by the commission should be presented to the committee responsible in the ep alongside the council, thus opening up a wider debate and strengthening the role of parliament. as regards transparency, we consider it acceptable that at political level, in the course of prior consultation between member states, information received by the network is treated confidentially in order to achieve substantive consultation. at the same time, in order to inform citizens and to ensure the comparability of legal texts, rules already adopted, court decisions and their translations should be made available to all. as regards languages, it should be recognised that there are highly important and less used official languages of the union. accordingly, the legislation and its evaluation and analysis should be translated into the three most widely used languages in addition to the official languages of the member states, and moreover, it is superfluous.
the rapporteur. mr president! the aim of the instrument is to provide an efficient and transparent framework for financial support, while offering a genuine european perspective to the candidate countries. we have taken account of the experience of previous enlargement rounds, taking into account the interests of the union and the specific needs and problems of the candidate countries. it is particularly important to adopt this instrument now that there is apathy about enlargement in europe. we're sending a message by accepting that construction has not stopped, but is continuing. but with a good tool comes a budget. the budgetary framework is narrowly focused on the candidate countries. we hope that the 2008/2009 review will provide an opportunity for correction. i would like to thank the co-rapporteurs, mr dimitrakopoulos, mrs de keyser, mr lagendijk, for their help and constructive cooperation, and the commission for its constructive and supportive cooperation. i ask you to accept this instrument.
i would like to say a few words about the declaration of zero tolerance for roma by ján slota, because i have been thinking all summer about how important it is that we finally talk about the injustices faced by roma. ján slota has been expressing her anti-hungarian and anti-gypsy views with impunity, with increasing intensity during the slovak spring campaign period, which we have repeatedly drawn attention to. the leader of the notoriously nationalist party, who is consciously inciting anti-gypsyism among the slovak population with his unconstitutional and prejudiced statements, has nevertheless already started his work as a coalition partner and member of the slovak government. similar manifestations under the meciar government have already had almost irreversible consequences for the slovak roma population. it is estimated that there are 800,000 roma in slovakia today, living in very difficult social and economic conditions, and ending their exclusion is a priority for the country and the government. they don't. for the slovak roma and other minorities, who suffer from daily open or hidden prejudices, the current political atmosphere is rightly frightening and uncertain, and the manifestations characteristic of the slota cannot be tolerated under any circumstances in a democracy.
mr president, over the past few weeks our slovakian friends have informed us of a number of aggressive acts and provocations targeted at people from the hungarian and gypsy minorities. the incidents involved physical assaults and offensive insults written on banners at a sporting event. for example, a young woman from the hungarian minority was brutally beaten for speaking on her mobile phone in hungarian. these cruel acts have shocked the slovakian-hungarian public, as there have been no such atrocities over the last eight years. these alarming outrages against the minorities are completely against the european union’s ethics and principles, which slovakia guaranteed to abide by when it joined the eu. in the european union there is no room for acts that threaten the peaceful coexistence of minorities, especially if these acts are incited by governments or politicians. i ask that we take steps together against the extreme anti-minority remarks made by certain members of the slovakian government so that they do not provoke any more aggressive incidents. if we want to stay loyal to the union’s principles and to respect individual and collective human rights, we must act immediately before the atrocities lead to tragedy.
several groups in the european parliament, including the socialist people's party, expressed concern at the formation of a coalition in slovakia this summer, one of whose party leaders has been inciting hate speech against minorities for years. unfortunately, their fears have been proven true. the nationalist party leader's hate speech has unleashed the genie from the bottle. this gave courage to the extreme nationalists, who had already physically assaulted members of the hungarian minority on several occasions. this has not happened in slovakia in the last decade. unfortunately, governor fico's demarcation was delayed and unclear. i hope the slovak prime minister is beginning to understand that the european union will not tolerate a government playing with the fire of nationalism. nationalist forest fires in slovakia should have been put out immediately. the prime minister is wrong to blame the minority representatives. it is unlikely that martin schulz, poul nyrup rasmussen, hans-gert poettering or elmar brok took the position of inciting the hungarian coalition last week. the european values system does not allow for nationalism. no one has an interest in isolating slovakia, but isolating nationalism, racism is the duty of all of us.
i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs riis-jørgensen, on her excellent report, but i must also express my appreciation to the commission and to mr kovács personally for the proposal that has been put forward. on the basis of the discussions so far, i see a consensus among the main forces that the registration tax, a mechanism which is contrary to the objectives of the internal market, should be abolished. this would facilitate the free movement of persons and, by reducing costs, would also contribute to the faster modernisation of the fleet. at the same time, i support the idea of ending this situation in the spirit of budgetary neutrality by introducing an operating levy. i think mr. kovács is familiar with the fiscal constraint, since he had to pay the registration tax in hungary a few years ago. i think it is a good thing that there is a transitional regime and that it excludes double taxation and that it takes account of depreciation. i would like to mention two more things. first, member states should be given the greatest possible freedom in setting and using the operating fee. there's been a lot of talk about the innovation fund, about fuel prices, but the income tax problem is a solution. i think it's a bit much to take into account the 50% mandatory ratio for air pollution, because if someone is doing very well in kyoto, let them decide for themselves what proportion they take into account. therefore, i have also proposed that the commission should recommend other factors when setting the operating fee. i would like to insist, however, on the idea of proportionality or linearity, so that for any tax factor, that is the only way to deduct taxes. in many cases, even a few years old car is a step towards modernisation, especially in new member states with old fleets whose residents are unable to replace their old cars for social reasons or because of lack of solvency. i support the ten-year regime, which i believe gives enough time to exploit the opportunities and to allow economic operators to adapt.
it is a shame, but today violence against women has become a global phenomenon, and national borders cannot stop it. it destroys the lives of women and millions of families, and it makes them miserable. in europe alone, one in five women is a victim of violence, with consequences for their own physical and mental health, that of their family members and children. because there is violence hidden in seemingly peaceful family homes, but it's present in office intimacy, in increasingly violent gender behaviors, in sexual harassment, and in its most brutal form, in forced prostitution, in modern day slavery. we cannot ignore the fact that many forms of violent treatment and sexual humiliation stem from the customs and traditions of certain societies, which are unacceptable to europeans. such is the institution of forced genital mutilation, forced marriage. unfortunately, these reprehensible behaviours have already appeared within the union. all these phenomena are a fundamental violation of human rights, one of the cornerstones of the union, of the communities. they require cooperation between police and judicial authorities and joint action by the member states and the union institutions. the daphne iii programme has the support of the eu public at large, as our campaign against forced prostitution at the world cup in football alone was helped by the 100,000 signatures and support of commissioner frattini, as well as the willing cooperation of the police authorities of the countries concerned. if we can preserve the purity of sport, let us preserve the calm and purity of family life, let us have the strength to unite.
in writing. first of all, i would like to agree that the fight against vulnerable groups requires a separate approach and a separate eu programme in the next budget cycle. i am afraid that the confusion of this problem, which is itself complex and requires a differentiated approach, with other areas would jeopardise a concentrated and effective european action. at the same time, partly as a result of previous enlargements and partly as a result of the enlargements ahead, one of the least addressed social and political crises in europe is the social protection and integration of the roma. these groups are already much more vulnerable, but roma women and children are particularly at risk, who are increasingly exposed to the threat of violence in their daily lives. the same is true for refugee and migrant women and children, where vulnerability is also palpable, both externally and internally. perhaps it is enough to illustrate the humanitarian catastrophe associated with illegal migration by the fact that over the past decade and a half, more than 5,000 people have lost their lives in the mediterranean refugee wave, of which the most vulnerable groups are also the most vulnerable. i should add that among the victims of the periphery of society, the greatest threat is the threat of forced prostitution and sexual violence, which are often linked to various forms of organized crime, such as human trafficking and drug distribution. i am convinced that all these issues can only be resolved through long-term and complex action plans and pan-european cooperation. i sincerely believe that the european parliament will be at the forefront of these efforts.
the european social model is facing major challenges, mainly related to changes in the economic environment and the transformation of society. the elements of this were discussed earlier. i see the key issue as creating more and more new jobs. it is important to stress this and the social model: only more jobs and, in this context, support for small and mediumsized enterprises will give us the opportunity to talk about the elements of changes in the social model. i am glad to hear what commissioner spidla has said, that we are talking about preserving european values. to do this, we obviously need structural changes in the european social model. the main question is: what eu strategy and timetable can we use to achieve this? in this respect, i am in favour of the need to coordinate eu policies and i particularly welcome the ambition expressed in the report: the reinforced open method of coordination, the stronger involvement of the national parliaments and the european parliament. i am convinced that a common european position based on consensus and greater cooperation is needed on the major political issues. so common european guidelines and tailor-made national actions - that's the approach we need to take. as regards the future prospects, this report is pragmatic enough to show that we must work together. the way to solve problems is to join forces, not to separate. i think this report is a good one and i would ask the members to support it in as large a number as possible, and to support it across the widest spectrum of the political spectrum.
the reform of the european social model is today at the heart of the debate in europe. as a matter of fact, there are a great many challenges in the social changes consequent to the necessity to adjust to globalisation, demographic evolution and technology innovation. at this stage, we support the rapporteur when he stresses that the union should not only preserve but enhance the common set of european values that are the preservation of peace, social justice, equality, solidarity, the promotion of freedom and democracy, and respect for human rights while bearing in mind that the sine qua non for social justice is economic prosperity. the union must meet its citizens’ expectations and answer the spreading concerns about employment, the current low growth rate and the need to reform the social protection systems. the rapporteur wisely underlines that it is time to call for eu-wide renewal of the social dialogue while deepening cooperation and exchange of best practice through the enhanced open method of coordination as the key policy-making instrument in the fields of employment, social protection, social exclusion, gender equality in the labour market, pensions, and healthcare.
peneda-de rossa's presentation is not only a professional and political excellence, but also a moral act. they do not see the european social model as a convergence of distribution systems. the report considers the social model to be the main direction for european values, which can only be maintained if europe continues along the path marked out in amsterdam and lisbon, if there are no decisive preferences, in the false dichotomy of competitiveness or solidarity. to achieve this mission, economic competitiveness and human security must be mutually supportive and together create the conditions for a dignified human life. the rapporteur is particularly grateful for making the report available to the new member states. acceptance of peneda-de rossa's analysis closes the debate on whether the goal system of cohesion can be replaced by other subordinate endeavours. the message is clear: europe's identity and credibility depend on whether we allow countries, regions and groups in need of social support to be divided. to this end, the reform of the social model is a means and not an end in itself, a means to meet the new challenges of a multinational europe, to respond to the challenges of globalisation and the information explosion. the report identifies the avoidance of the poverty trap, which particularly affects the new member states, as a serious issue of european conscience. we know that an ageing europe is itself threatened by a despairing destiny, the most threatening of which is the growing poverty of children. the europe of which this report is a part cannot afford to let future generations be trapped in poverty.
i congratulate the rapporteur on his in-depth and thought-provoking analysis of social europe. i agree that the social model is primarily about values. but these values, of which the old continent is rightly so proud, are today threatened by grave dangers that can only be overcome by a united effort. economic growth and increased competitiveness - although they are indeed prerequisites for the preservation of social achievements - will no longer in themselves help the social strata which have slipped behind to keep pace with, or even participate in, the accelerating competition. on the contrary, they deepen social divisions. the tragic situation of refugees and migrants in western europe and the roma in eastern europe is a chilling warning. the creation of new jobs, in the absence of adequate guarantees, can still lead to a vulnerability trap. creating a level playing field does not lead to genuine equality of opportunity for those who are disadvantaged, but rather preserves and even increases the gap. the conditions for reducing these are the large social systems, the supply systems, and above all, the availability of quality education for all. but the victory of competitive groups is also being undermined: the glaring differences and the growing decline are destabilising society, tearing at its very fabric. the french riots have shown that even a small fortune cannot protect you in a hot environment. at the same time, a minimum wage does not make a socially dissatisfied society entrepreneurial. therefore, while i agree that economic growth and competitiveness are the source of the crisis and the solution to social europe, we cannot make the mistake of absolutizing the latter as the ultimate goal. this was perhaps best summed up by the former president of the european socialist party, robin cook: the economy must always serve the people, and the people must never serve the economy.
first of all, i'd like to thank mr. bowis for the opportunity to talk to you about this very important subject. disease is something that everyone fears, and the most feared diseases are undoubtedly those that threaten the integrity of the mind. for a long time, medicine and society alike have been helpless in the face of this, and have responded by sweeping the problems under the carpet or isolating those affected. fortunately, we now know that a child with a learning disability is not a bad thing, that people with depression cannot be expected to humanize themselves, but that with the right help, even our fellow mentally handicapped people can make serious progress. but at the same time, we have to face the fact that just as sitting hurts the spine, or just as chemical use increases the number of allergies, so in our modern world, stress, information dumping, lack of safe havens make it very difficult to maintain our mental health. however, while most of us today are consciously concerned with maintaining our physical health, much less is being done to maintain our mental health. i therefore welcome the commission's first steps towards an eu strategy to improve mental health. this is particularly important for the new member states, including hungary, where the shock of sudden economic and social transformation has created problems to which the backward institutional system, severe underfunding and rigid approaches are unable to provide adequate answers. added to this are problems that have traditionally characterized the region, such as the high suicide rate. in my country, hungary, 20 years ago, at the height of the suicide wave, more than 45 out of 100,000 people took their own lives, which was a shock to the world. the world suicide rate, according to who estimates, was about 16 per 100,000 in 2000, showing a rising trend over the past half century. there was a year, not so long ago in europe, when fewer people died in road accidents than in suicide, as some of my colleagues have already mentioned. but let us not think that this is unique to europe. in the united states, suicide is often the leading cause of death, with one and a half times as many suicides as homicides in 1997. the long-term neglect of the field has resulted in the continued secrecy of psychological counselling, the not uncommon classification of disadvantaged children as mentally handicapped, and the fact that many families are left to face the problems of their members without any effective outside help. this situation needs to change, and i support all amendments which say that special attention should be paid to mental health problems in the new member states.
on behalf of the alde group. today everyone knows that the international community made a big mistake by delaying the settlement of kosovo's status. time has not solved anything, on the contrary, it has complicated the situation. the status of kosovo must be settled as soon as possible, this year. if the negotiations fail, the international community must take responsibility for the decision. the outlines of the solution are clear. we know what we don't want and what we want. we do not want to - because we cannot - restore the situation as it was before 1999. it would only escalate the crisis. we don't want kosovo to be divided, because that would start a dangerous chain reaction in the region. we do not want kosovo to join any of the neighbouring countries, because that would not serve stability either. kosovo can gradually regain its independence, its full statehood, depending on how viable it becomes, how much it can guarantee human rights, minority rights, the basic principles of the rule of law. we must help kosovo to do this, and we must create the conditions for this. i agree with the commissioner that the key issue is to ensure the rights of minorities, in particular the rights of the serbian minority, but also the rights of the roma minority. this is a crucial moment for the whole region. one of the starting points of the balkan crisis was the denial of minority rights and disorder. we must find a solution that grants broad autonomy to both the serbs and the roma in kosovo, a solution that is guaranteed by the constitution and for which the international community takes responsibility and guarantees. but serbia must also understand that its concerns about the serb minority in kosovo are legitimate, but morally acceptable only if serbia guarantees the same rights to minorities living in serbia, for example hungarians living in vojvodina, slovaks living there or albanians living in other parts of serbia. finally, the officer spoke of something very important. the role of the international community, including the european union. the creation of a viable kosovo is not imaginable without the active involvement of the european union. we need to help shape the administration and the economy. unfortunately, the 2007 budget does not provide any such possibility. words and deeds are once again separated. we talk about what we want to do, but at the same time, we don't have a budget for what we do. i ask parliament to support in the budgetary debate the proposals - i myself have made some of them - which are intended to provide the funds needed for the settlement in kosovo.
it is clear that kosovo's independence is inevitable, but the nature of that independence will determine the stability of all of south-eastern europe for a long time to come. the european union has no concept, it is actually wandering after the events. it would be very important to finally have a coherent concept of the kosovo settlement. we need a fair settlement that doesn't punish the serbs and only rewards the albanians. such a settlement is not fair, it destabilizes the region, the southeast europe, where there are greece, hungary, bulgaria, romania, the future eu members. we cannot stabilize kosovo by destabilizing the region. right now, everyone is talking about the minority issue, but there is no reassuring concept. this is all the more interesting because mr ahtisaari is finnish, mr olli rehn is finnish in finland there is an exemplary minority arrangement. i cannot imagine a situation in which the serbs in kosovo would be reassured if the northern part of kosovo had no territorial autonomy and the southern part had no autonomy in terms of personnel. the whole decentralization is not worked out, the municipality does not guarantee it. and as for compensating serbia, eu membership, we know very well that in the current eu fatigue, it's not a very attractive prospect. we have to take that into account, as we have to think about how he took away milosevic's autonomy in kosovo and in vojvodina. everyone talks about kosovo's independence, but no one talks about the situation of the minorities in vojvodina or the muslims in sanjak. he's afraid we're headed for a bad settlement if we don't come up with a decent, good concept for minorities. i agree with all of my colleague von wogau's concerns.
mr president, my group has requested that mr belder’s report on eu-china relations be referred back to committee because we consider it to be inadequate and unbalanced in addressing a number of issues covering relations between the eu and china. the pse group also believes that there are a number of factual errors in the report which could only be corrected via a huge number of amendments. however, we are of the opinion that such an important report from the committee on foreign affairs concerning a global power like china needs to be re-examined and re-discussed in detail. this is because the report contains 125 recitals and paragraphs, of which only two paragraphs are on eu-china cooperation. just 13 paragraphs concern foreign policy, while some of the eu’s basic principles of the last 30 years are ignored. global security and energy issues are barely mentioned, and therefore we need to bring balance into this report. we urge the house to refer this report back to committee, where we will have sufficient time to address these extremely important issues as regards eu-china cooperation. the commission is currently doing a tremendous job in dealing with eu-china relations in more than 20 different policy fields, including foreign policy, global security issues and energy issues. we need to act together to define a coherent position based on facts and clear information from the relevant departments in the commission and the council. parliament’s position will be greatly strengthened and we will be more influential in achieving our common goals if we give ourselves some extra time to prepare and reflect on this report again. (applause from the pse group)
mr president, i welcome the work done by the commission on china so far and the input of commissioner ferrero-waldner tonight. if the report were as balanced as your contribution tonight, commissioner, i would wholeheartedly support it. however, throughout our discussions in the foreign affairs committee, i have argued that the report was weak in the eu-china cooperation and foreign policy sections. for no reason that i can understand, the report does not take a position on the one-china policy or china’s role in the security council, and it does not take a balanced view on the taiwan issue, the six-party talks, eu-china cooperation and global security issues. the report singles out only one of the major partners for cooperation in dealing with china. why? i, like the vast majority of people in europe, believe that we should work together in cooperation with all our major partners, rather than with only one. there are also factual errors in mr belder’s report, which is supported by the ppe-de group and other groups. i shall refer to just one example: in paragraph 24, parliament invites the commission to initiate a structured dialogue with its chinese counterpart in the fields of employment and social affairs. well, mr belder and colleagues from the ppe-de and alde groups, either your homework has not been done properly, or we must congratulate the magical powers of the commission, because two years ago it must have eaten some chinese fortune cookie which said that in september 2006 parliament would make such a call to initiate a structured dialogue. the truth is that the commission has been having structured dialogue on these issues and many other issues for years now. our group’s suggestion, which was rejected, was to get the commission to give us regular updates on the different sectoral dialogues, which now cover a wide range of areas from space technology to enterprise regulation, from environmental issues to education and the information society. commissioner, the pse group would warmly welcome it if you were to give us those regular updates as regards your work in building structured dialogues with china. my idea was that this report should be parliament’s contribution to eu-china relations based on pragmatism, facts and respect for each other’s sensitivities, and aiming for the progressive deepening of the relationship between the two sides, which is rapidly maturing into a comprehensive strategic partnership. in fact, europe is engaged with china in cultural, economic and strategic terms. correct me if i am wrong, but the big question is whether china will respond wholeheartedly in trying to understand and accept european values. is there any way to find answers to these questions other than through constructive dialogue? my idea was that this report could contribute to a process in which both sides could understand one another better. this would be for our mutual benefit. unfortunately, the report as it stands makes no such contribution. it greatly weakens parliament’s position and influence in achieving our common goals, especially now with a view to the forthcoming summit.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i'd like to report on an incident that occurred on september 7th. last week i was in romania, where police and hooded commandos attacked roma community members in the apalina district of sasaregene. thirty-seven people were injured, plastic bullets were fired into these people. the county sheriff's office has just reported six injuries. all six of these wounded suffered from healing injuries within eight days. i have personally experienced that these claims are not true. i've met a man who had 17 bullets in him and in eight days, five were removed from his body, and to this day, 12 bullets are still in him. this is the fourth incident in romania since january, which is a matter of great concern, and i would also like to draw parliament's attention to all of this because, as far as i am aware, the final national report will be on our table on 26 september. and i would like to call the attention of commissioner olli rehn to do everything possible to change the situation.
mr president, last week a tape was leaked, on which the hungarian prime minister said: ‘we lied to the people for 18 months – in the morning, in the evening and at night, about the economy, and we lied to win the elections.’ it was followed by street demonstrations with tens of thousands of people all over hungary calling for him to resign. the ppe-de group also called upon the prime minister to resign. however, european socialist and liberal parties backed their discredited friend. dear colleagues, that was a shame! fortunately several socialists took an opposite stand, also demanding his resignation, among them ségolène royal. here i call on our socialist and liberal colleagues to change their position. systematic lying to citizens cannot be the european way in politics. i hope we all agree on that. the leaked tape included a reference by the minister for finance saying that the european commissioner, mr almunia, helped his socialist comrades in budapest to delay the issuance of the real data. i call on the commissioner to make clear his responsibility in the matter. i also call for the resignation of the anti-democratic prime minister of hungary. i express our solidarity with the demonstrators all over hungary. i am wearing a white shirt to express my solidarity with and protest against lies and violence. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sorry to say that mr schulz, the chairman of the group of the european people's party, is no longer here, but i would like you to tell him that he has been misinformed. firstly, as mr peterle has already said, prime minister gyurcsány does not have the courage to admit publicly in the hungarian parliament that he has lied day and night for years. secondly, no european flags were burned in hungary. i would ask our socialist colleague, mr tabajdi, to confirm this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre)
mr president, hungary, like the other 24 member states of europe, is a democracy. pursuant to the rule of law, we changed our government after the parliamentary elections in april. on 1 october, we will have municipal elections in which we will elect the mayors in the municipalities. therefore, those who have demonstrated on the streets against the government and in favour of a change of government are working against the hungarian constitution and against the rule of law. we are closer today to knowing who these people are who are playing with fire in this way. once again, hungary should abide by the rule of law and follow democratic rules.
mr president, everyone has the right to a clean and healthy environment and nobody should endanger the health and lives of other people. this principle should be the cornerstone not just of our environmental policy, but of our would-be constitution as well. people have the right to clean air, and politicians and industrialists have the responsibility to guarantee that right. some decades ago, industry was the main cause of air pollution and the diseases connected with it. with technological changes, industry became less polluting but, as the number of cars increased, the situation did not improve. eighty per cent of our citizens live in cities and for them the main cause of air pollution is traffic. during the pse group hearing on air pollution, we had clear evidence of this. if we want to provide cleaner air for our citizens, we should change our traffic policy in cities. in cities with polluted air we have to reduce individual car traffic and improve public transport. the strict pollution reduction targets, as proposed for particulate matter, can only be achieved in that way. that should be the main target, but we also have to reduce dangerous emissions from cars, with cleaner engines, fuels and filters, as indicated in the euro 5 and euro 6 proposals. when human lives are at stake, wishful thinking and soft recommendations are not enough. we need binding targets and strict regulations. annual and daily limit values are also needed. limit values must be low and strict but, on the other hand, they should reflect reality. it is better to lower them step by step than to set up unrealistic measures and allow them to be ignored. my last words are to mr sjöstedt: tack, jonas.
mr. president, i have to ask you... as a hungarian mep, i am particularly sensitive to the current debate on air pollution. both brussels, where i work, and budapest, where i live, are the darkest places on europe's air pollution map. for example, in the first quarter of the year, budapest reached the number of exceedances of the limit values for particulate matter, and exceedances of 4-5 times are not uncommon. it's been going on for years, with no sign of improvement. and the health-destroying effects of particulate matter are a fact. on average, a european citizen loses eight months of his life because of them. however, in the case of the budapest plants, this loss is up to three years. so i welcome the introduction of the new air quality directive, including the regulation of fine particulate matter. however, we will achieve nothing with regulation if enforcement is not assured. we can't expect the communities to do more than they can actually do. but we'll have to wait and see. clearly, air pollution is strongly influenced by a number of external factors, such as the weather. this does not mean, however, that with proper urban planning and the development of the public transport network, no significant improvement can be achieved. it is therefore essential that only those municipalities which have really done all that could be done are granted a grace period to comply with the limit values. we must ensure that no european city has what is happening in budapest today, where the city administration has no strategy for improving air quality, despite the european commitment to do so for many years. so you have no idea how to get closer to meeting the limits that are supposed to ensure people's health. i think we have to offer european citizens a more attractive alternative to the forced masks worn by chinese cyclists.
rapporteur. – mr president, some 80 % of our citizens live in urban areas, but their needs and interests are strongly under-represented in union funds, projects and initiatives. as regards the level of eu funding, these city dwellers are second-rate citizens of the european union. the thematic strategy on the urban environment should be a brave and progressive initiative, not just a lukewarm recommendation of wishful thinking. sadly, the commission document on that subject is rather weak. the sixth environmental action plan has set encouraging goals, but this time the commission failed to propose legally binding measures and deadlines. the commission does not attempt to balance european policy between urban and rural areas and does not have any vision for a cleaner urban environment. i cannot do the job of the whole commission, but i can at least try to propose some useful measures. firstly, i propose that a sustainable urban management plan and a sustainable urban transport plan should be required by community law for every agglomeration with more than 100 000 inhabitants, as proposed by the commission in 2004. representatives of european cities have expressed their satisfaction with my proposal. those kinds of binding measures make life easier for environment-conscious city councils, as they have legal bases for action on the environment. as far as transport is concerned, non-motorised transport should have priority over every other kind of traffic, public transport over private, small and less-polluting cars over other vehicles. congestion charging, as used in london and stockholm, is a success at present. it is the only possible future for every large european city. the referendum some days ago in stockholm showed us that people liked the idea and only a minority of certain lobbyists oppose it. i am also proposing a 5% shift in passenger kilometre from individual transport – namely cars – to public transport and cycling. speed limits in city centres, such as in graz, austria, reduce accidents, save lives and reduce air pollution and noise emissions. low emission zones are also useful in combating air pollution. if we really want to do something about climate change, we should act in our cities as well. as the english say, ‘charity begins at home’. that should also apply to sustainable development. due to climate change, heatwaves turn many towns and cities into hell during the hot summer days and nights. heatwaves kill thousands of european citizens and they die a painful and humiliating death. heatwave emergency plans are crucial for most european cities, except in some nordic communities. the basic treatment for heatwaves is simple: more water, green roofs and facades, fresh water and natural cooling systems, reducing car traffic. hot summers are coming and we should save the lives of city dwellers. we need more green spaces in our cities. even some ten square metres of green islands can improve the spirit of a city, together with bigger parks and gardens nearby. summertime urban beaches like those in paris, brussels and budapest are also useful projects for those who cannot leave the city on long vacations. in both old and new member states, tens of millions of people live in mass-produced, prefabricated housing estates. in many western cities these have become ethnic and social ghettos. complex social, cultural, educational and environmental programmes are needed to rehabilitate those suburbs. in central europe, in hungary for instance, most of those housing estates have not yet become ghettos. the majority of their dwellers still belong to the lower and middle classes. in their case, the physical state of the housing is worrying. in the eu-10 countries the repair and rehabilitation of housing estates is a crucial step forward in preserving social peace and improving city life. as rapporteur, i accepted many amendments tabled by my colleagues in the ppe-de group in the hope of good cooperation. i was rather surprised that the ppe-de group then tried to kill my report by deleting all the important targets and measures in committee. i call upon all members to support the importance of binding targets and measures. without them our work is just words, words, words. my report can be summed up in one sentence: less cars, more green and water. that is the only survival strategy for our cities.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i would like to thank all those colleagues whose work has contributed to the hopeful reception of this report, and above all those who have agreed with most of my ideas. i think that in terms of subsidiarity, i see this issue a little bit differently. this is not a directive we're talking about, it's a strategic proposal. at least that shouldn't water down our requirements. when it comes to drafting directives, we'll have a long negotiation to do. i met representatives of european cities, municipalities and eurocity staff who came to see me in the european parliament building. they were exactly what i wanted, that there should be as many mandatory regulations as possible, because then they can implement green ideas in urban policy, if they have eu support, because there are other interests at work in cities. it is also very important that this strategic proposal does not get lost in the shuffle. i therefore propose that in one paragraph, which fortunately has the support of all the parties in this house, there should be an afterlife for this report in the context of interinstitutional consultation. i would also ask commissioner dimas to allow me to discuss next week or sometime in the future what the follow-up to this report should be, apart from the adoption by the european parliament.
cities play key role in generating wealth; economic, social and cultural development, constitute a driving force for growth and employment. efficient urban planning, pragmatic development of urban environment models and tools with integrated approach, exchange of best practices helps cities ensuring sustainable development, reconciliation of economic, social and environmental challenges as well as contributing to the healthy well-being of eu citizens. these actions, based on comprehensive policies with clear, concrete, measurable targets and frameworks, must be sustainable, future-oriented and supported by adequate eu funds. for urban environment - being a wide, comprehensive and constantly changing issue – flexible approach is needed so emphasis must be put on research which could be included in the 7-th framework programme on research. among the widest variety of priority targets, there are some of the most important challenges. adopting measures to reduce land use, and in particular to limit greenfield and extend brownfield developments in urban development programmes, protect green areas is one of them. sustainable urban public transport; the progressive introduction of environmentally-friendly modes of transport and technologies, the promotion of public transport and non-motorised transport against the use of private cars are just some examples of the main priorities.
the rapporteur of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. mr schulz has a very good eye because he sees something in this resolution that is not in this resolution. i would like to point out that the imco committee agreed to a large extent with the white paper which the commission has presented to parliament. in this respect, we also agreed that there was no need for a framework directive at european level. at the same time, i think there are three principles that are fundamentally necessary when we're talking about these issues. the first and most important principle is the principle of subsidiarity. we have a lot of different public service systems in europe. this diversity cannot be uniformised. as a consequence, if europe does not want to take responsibility for the provision of public services, it cannot standardise these aspects. so, these are issues that should be left to the local authorities. the other is the question of gradualness. the european union and the european commission are on the right track when they decide to gradually regulate, and this leads to the third point, the question of sectoral nature. so we've been very successful in regulating various sectors in telecommunications and other areas. this example should be continued and continuous monitoring should be sought. i agree, and our committee agreed, that greater legal certainty is of course needed. and of course, as a representative of a new member state, let me also say that the principle of equal access does indeed require the european union to provide the common fund through the enlargement and cohesion funds. in many new member states, the instruments for enforcing competition and consumer protection are weak. these need to be reinforced. it is precisely in order to ensure both equal access and competition in these areas. i think the report on services of general interest is a good report, mr rapkay and his colleagues have done a very good job. but i would ask that we all not misinterpret or include in this report elements that are not there. so we cannot talk about a framework directive, about communication in relation to a framework directive in this respect. it is also very important that the question of the general services directive is very closely linked to this issue. we need to be clear on that, too. the services directive has set out the framework within which we can work in this respect in many areas.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to request a roll-call vote for the next two amendments, amendment 3 (paragraph 7) and amendment 4 (paragraph 25), because those amendments are totally against the spirit of my report.
mr. president, i have to ask you... my country, two-thirds of the population of hungary live in cities. they are the ones who are most exposed to the environmental damage from industrial activity, from transportation. this in itself justifies making special efforts to improve the urban environment. the situation in budapest is particularly bad, which is why i thought it was important to support this report, even though there are many things to be said about its content. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are applied in the member states. i understand his reasons, since he, like me, lives in budapest, where no measures have been taken in recent years to improve the quality of the environment. the eu's expectations can indeed have an important incentive effect and their compliance should be strictly monitored. however, it would be a mistake to expect the union to solve the environmental problems of european cities by means of detailed standards outlining specific programmes. this is the job of the local authorities, and their failures cannot be compensated for by strasbourg or brussels.
in my experience many people learn foreign languages, but not so many of them can speak them in everyday life. i think that is why it is very important to have a criterion at community level to compare the different language teaching methods. that would be very useful. on your other remark, commissioner, according to figures from infopoint brussels, there are approximately 25% more eu publications in old member state languages than publications in the new member state languages. so those figures are correct as far as i know.
mr. president, i have to ask you... first of all, i'd like to congratulate mrs. karin jöns on this great program. in the light of the lisbon strategy, i consider it extremely important that such initiatives be launched, which aim to improve employment, strengthen social inclusion and thus make the union more competitive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. and i would like to emphasize that i welcome the part of the programme that deals specifically with gender mainstreaming, with the implementation of the principle of gender equality in social policy. it is also gratifying to note that the report seeks to take into account the special needs of disabled people. i also consider it important to cooperate with other committees in the design and implementation of the programme. in my view, the protection of minorities, and in particular of roma communities, should be a separate section of the report and perhaps more should be spent on funding gender equality. the implementation of progress requires the exchange of information at european level and the dissemination of good practices throughout the community if these objectives are to be achieved. in the end, we have a programme that can only be achieved by european cooperation and which deserves our full support.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the community strategic guidelines for the next seven years are a major step forward and will help to shape the cohesion policy of the new member states, which will mean a more united and coherent europe for all of us in a few years' time. the european parliament has worked as fast as possible to prepare the community strategic guidelines and it will now be up to the member states to prepare and submit to the european union the best, most credible and feasible national development plans within the appropriate framework. let me draw your attention to some aspects of the document which have not been given such prominence in the past and which have thus been less of a stimulus for member states to develop their national development plans. first of all, let me mention the part of the document which calls for a broad participation in the preparation of the member states' national development plans, the involvement of the various civil and professional organisations, and the proposal for equal opportunities for member states to have a say in the preparation of development plans. a very important step forward in the document is the approach that considers health as an economic value as the engine of development and recommends the same when drawing up national development plans. health is not just about improving health care, about better access to health care, but about creating more and better jobs, about the sustainable development goals and about the principle of equal opportunities that we have already mentioned. the material is a major step forward in improving the transparency and accountability of eu funding and thus strengthening trust between member states. we all know how much work it takes to produce such a document, so i can only congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mrs krehl, and the shadow reporter, mr olbrycht, for their excellent work.
first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues in the committee, my colleagues in the council and, of course, mrs krehl for the efforts they have made to improve the guidelines. the essence and real achievement of the agreement for the regions, municipalities and cities of the new member states is that they are in a convincingly better position to: - use resources more safely (with a safe start in 2007 and full use planned) - more easily (with a much smaller budget and more favourable rules) - tailor-made (for new own purposes such as housing renovation, public transport, road construction). we're getting more options, more choice in how we use them, more value -- and that's going to greatly increase our chances of dynamic growth, of catching up. the second highest per capita cohesion/catching-up aid among 27 countries, my country can develop, with at least huf 8 billion worth of development. in the regulations for our catch-up, including the strategic guidelines, most hungarian requests, amendment proposals in the committees of the parliament and the council received support, and we even received something we did not ask for, did not hope for. the regions of europe that are lagging behind today are set to catch up. further success depends on whether we succeed in building our country in our own country with a combination similar to that in brussels, whether we are able to deal with real issues and, instead of empty words, raise hungary and the other new member states to the forefront of europe. it's up to us now...
author. - mr president, i have to go. mr vice-president, a year ago here in strasbourg, the european parliament voted on the funding of the galileo programme at first reading and gave its support to the programme by virtually unanimous consent. the big success of the past year was that giove-a took over the orbit and occupied the frequency. we're proud of the european engineers and developers. the concession negotiations for implementation and operation are ongoing and parliament takes note of the commission's communication that the first outcome of the negotiations will be the so-called 'head of terms' for financing later this year. we call on the commission to do everything possible to achieve the common objective of a two-thirds to one-third financing of the galileo programme by private capital and by the community. despite the results, we have to express our concern. the program is significantly delayed. we see the considerable difficulties that the commission faces on a daily basis. our european legal and regulatory systems are difficult to apply to the implementation of a joint project. the commission will also be able to use the existing instruments to support the implementation of the new programme. we agree that the european galileo programme has entered the global arena and offered its services worldwide. however, if cooperation with third countries were to be reflected in the global institutional transformation of the supervisory authority, the european parliament would wish to express its opinion on this in advance. we, the various political groups in the european parliament, believe that what the galileo programme needs now is what is known as 'good governance'. i therefore ask the president, the vice-president, what the commission intends to do to ensure that this programme, which is promising for europe and one of the vehicles of our lisbon objectives, is implemented without any further delay. when will the application rules be ready to allow european businesses to prepare in time for the participation which is the key to the success of the whole programme?
mr. president, i have to ask you... it is essential that the principles and values on which the european union is founded are also applied in all circumstances to the policies of the member states and the community. if these aspirations are realised, we will be closer to safeguarding the democratic legitimacy of the union and preserving our credibility. this includes ensuring that the protection and promotion of fundamental rights are given an appropriate institutional framework. i therefore consider it important that no member state should stand in the way of the establishment of a european agency for fundamental rights which is truly responsible and independent, but at the same time effective. disregard for the fundamental european values and principles by any member state is unacceptable. but this is particularly true for new member states or those that are just joining, where the rule of law test often comes later. thus, intolerance, the official phenomenon of encouraging extremism, openly or covertly perpetrated by the government and politicians, and the atrocities against minorities, anti-hungarian, that emerge as a direct consequence of this, cannot be tolerated in slovakia. this can't be the internal affairs of a country. this directly affects the freedom, security and rule of law in the eu and is therefore a european issue. in the same way, the responsibility and accountability towards citizens, the open and cynical stand against european principles, the lies, the trash and the absurdity, the presentation of this as a courageous, heroic act instead of an apology - to refer to the events surrounding the hungarian prime minister ferenc gyurcsány. this also lays the foundations for the rule of law and credibility. it therefore threatens everything we have built together, an area of freedom, security and the rule of law. the credibility of the community institutions and the trust of the citizens of the new member states in the union are under threat from the way in which the enlargement of the schengen area is being handled by the council and the commission, which recently indicated that it would postpone the enlargement of the area until the second half of 2008. it is incomprehensible to us, it is unacceptable to the new member states, that it cannot join... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, even if we speak frequently about gender inequality issues, the role of women in international trade is neglected, and that is why i would like to congratulate the rapporteur because she raised that very important issue, which is very rarely debated. women are often negatively affected by the process of globalisation, as we heard, and i absolutely agree on that. they do not have the same access to education and employment, and are not properly involved in trade. they are often excluded from the decision-making process and from services. as we know, only highly educated women benefit from liberalised trade, and women all over the world often suffer from the side-effects of globalisation and liberalisation. that is why we all agree that equal treatment should become a reality, and in order to achieve it, clear monitoring of employment policies is necessary, together with collecting gender-disaggregated data. trade can be identified as one of the six priority areas for development policy. achieving gender equality is the key to development in general. the strategy of gender mainstreaming is a long-term, step-by-step approach, based on integrating gender issues into both the political and the practical areas. development effectiveness requires that gender analysis should be systematically integrated into the conception, implementation and evaluation of all development strategies. development effectiveness makes it appropriate to envisage specific activities aimed at ensuring adequate attention to gender issues across the mainstream of community financial instruments, which should increasingly assume responsibility for these key questions. strengthened women’s representation and participation in economic and political life contributes significantly to poverty reduction and development and creates more hope for a better future for the next generation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, two days ago, north korea crossed a red line. the presidency of the european union, in its statement, strongly condemned the nuclear test, which is unacceptable. the presidency signalled its willingness to work in close cooperation with the international community towards a decisive international response to this provocative act. the high representative and commissioner ferrero-waldner confirmed and repeated this stance. i am very happy about that, and i welcome the statement, but we expect it to be strictly implemented. north korea has always tried to negotiate using threats and intimidation. it has worked for them so far, but we must be clear that it will not work for them again. there seems to be an unprecedented international consensus on possible counter-measures against the north korean regime. let us take this opportunity to send a clear signal that we will not tolerate acts that lead to instability and that further increase tensions. north korea’s action is a threat to regional stability because it might trigger a regional arms race, which is highly undesirable. it is also a threat to the immediate security of all if north korea succeeds in enhancing its position in the illegal arms trade with shady regimes, not to mention international terrorist organisations. when dealing with north korea, we must also keep iran in mind. by taking a firm stance on this matter, we also create incentives for iran to return to the negotiating table. north korea must refrain from further tests and unconditionally return to the six-party talks. at the same time, it must be obvious to all participants that the aim of the six-party talks is to convince north korea to abandon its military nuclear programme and provide for its participation in the npt regime. nothing less is acceptable, and we have to achieve that now; we can be flexible on modalities and specifics, but we must be firm on the principles. north korea must see that a military nuclear programme is not the way to guarantee its safety and stability. we have seen in the past that north korea can be open to limited but mutually fruitful economic cooperation with its neighbours and other partners. the european union and other donors have provided substantial humanitarian aid, as the commissioner indicated a few minutes ago, and we have always been open to giving further assistance and continuing dialogue, but with conditions. the question is: why is north korea turning its back on the international community now? the answer is simple: the leaders of north korea think they have nothing to lose. they are wrong: the price they have to pay for growing international isolation and possible sanctions will increase dramatically. we already know that they do not care much about the welfare of their own population, but through such irresponsible acts they risk losing international support and cooperation for a gradual opening-up of their country and for reforms without which the political and social structure of their country will inevitably collapse. they might understand no other argument, but they must understand this argument. (applause)
china and vietnam are supporting their shoe exports in an unacceptable way. these subsidies are in breach of wto rules. these subsidies have a market-distorting effect and result in dumping. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take into account the effects of the aid on the environment and the environment in the context of the common fisheries policy. therefore, the imposition of anti-dumping measures is justified from both a legal and economic point of view. it is not true that anti-dumping measures are protectionist, on the contrary, china and vietnam apply protectionist market-correction measures. the purpose of the anti-dumping duties is precisely to counterbalance the effects of the protectionist market-correction measures applied by china and vietnam. thank you very much.
i feel that as a hungarian representative, i have to respond to the sudden international interest in my country. i am convinced that the european parliament is unduly preoccupied with internal political conflicts, and my hungarian opposition colleagues are bringing the spirit of the political cold war into the building. we have not been given a mandate to bring domestic party conflicts to the european political stage, because that would only increase the distance between our european institutions and the citizens of the union. no one should have an interest in creating a biased image of hungary and destroying the positive image of the country that we have worked so hard to build. if we want to restore the diminished trust in the union and its institutions, we must move beyond petty conflicts of interest and respond to the challenges, of which there are many, by politicising in a european way. the new enlargement of the union, the violation of human rights, the negative effects of globalisation, the efficient mobilisation and use of eu funds for the development of the less-developed regions are examples. we have to do something.
as i said at the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs last week, the greatest achievement of our rule of law that is tangible to citizens is the free exercise of political rights. not by washing them down with unwarranted acts of violence. i would therefore like to draw the attention of parliament and the commission to the serious incidents and violations that took place in budapest on the night of 19 september 1920, which need to be investigated and whose consequences are still being felt today, calling into question the rule of law in hungary. according to the complaints, the police used excessive force and disproportionately harsh treatment not only against the protesters but also against young people on the streets, including foreign nationals, during the two days mentioned above. since then, it has collectively punished, arrested and detained people who had nothing to do with the violence. it is important that the most restrictive coercive measure on fundamental human rights and personal freedoms, such as pre-trial detention or imprisonment, is applied only in cases where it is thoroughly established that it is really necessary.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your service. the european spirit in hungary is in danger, we are moving away from europe. the socialist minister for local government and regional development promised his colleagues in the parliamentary group on saturday that he would ensure that the development funds from the european union would be distributed in the future on a party-political basis by amending the law accordingly. if this were to happen, it would mean that elected bodies would no longer be able to decide on the use of eu budget funds, but that partisan governance would emerge, providing a suitable breeding ground for opaque, uncontrolled spending. this statement not only threatens hungary's credibility in the european union, but also the implementation of the european spirit in hungary, according to which eu money should serve the cohesion, the upscaling of the hungarian people, based on the application of the basic principle of democracy. the socialist politician's speech clearly indicates that the purpose of using eu money is to enrich the hungarian socialist party.
mr president, last friday the hungarian government gained a solid majority in a vote of confidence in the hungarian parliament. as a result, our national currency has become stronger, economic prospects are better and hungary has returned to normal life. there is no general crisis in budapest. only our leading opposition party, fidesz, is in crisis. the elected members of the national parliament lead anti-democratic demonstrations on the streets instead of opposing the government inside the parliament. as far as i know, elected parliamentarians should work in the parliament, not on the street, where extreme-right wrongdoers who were also demonstrating set fire to a building housing a television station. it would be very wise if the ppe-de group could tell its hungarian members that parliamentary democracy should mean respect for parliament, respect for parliamentary elections and strict borderlines between democratic politics and non-parliamentary extremism.
on behalf of the pse group. the action plan prepared by the european commission is a good basis and this anti-dumping decision on chinese strawberries is a positive one, but it does not represent a lasting solution. the only reassuring long-term solution would be to include these products - such as cherries, cherries, berries, mushrooms and sweetcorn - in the list of products to be processed, products receiving processing aid, under the fruit and vegetable reform. this would be very important, especially for the new member states, especially since this year farmers in the new member states will only receive 35% of direct payments. if the reform of the fruit and vegetables sector does not include these products in the list of products to be processed, there will be no real help for the new member states. that's what i've been fighting for for the last year and a half and that's what i'm going to keep fighting for.
the rapporteur. i am honoured to have been part of this process which as mr frattini concluded earlier has proved that, beyond the formalities, if there is a common will, it is possible to work together in a way that leads to results. the establishment of the fundamental rights agency is the subject of a number of debates. the adoption of this report was the result of a difficult and long series of negotiations. in this respect, special thanks go to commissioner frattini, the austrian presidency and the finnish presidency for their attitude. in this process, parliament for its part has consistently advocated the need to transform the existing european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia and to extend its mandate to cover all fundamental rights. attention is needed in this area and this is further underlined by the cases of violations of fundamental rights in the new member states. objective, reliable information from governmental and non-governmental bodies, academic institutions, and many sectors of civil society - including churches - will also be needed, and close cooperation will be needed to protect our fundamental rights. the intention to establish the agency was debated by the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and remains so today. respecting the work of the council of europe and recognising its necessity and importance, the text now before the vote also took account of the observations of this institution, that the agency should in no way duplicate the work already done by the council of europe, but should help it with its structure, its network and above all the european decision-making forums: the council, parliament and the commission. the text proposed for adoption is an acceptable compromise, but parliament has maintained its original position until agreement is reached in the council on a substantive issue. it is clear to us that if we want to create an effective institution and not just a showcase - which would be a waste of money - and i agree with those who would not support a superfluous institution - then it is clear that the mandate of this agency must include information, data collection and manifestations in the field of third pillar issues, since, as we see every day, the areas of police and judicial cooperation are the ones with the greatest problems. to refer only to the specific problems of trafficking in children or trafficking in women. we therefore expect an acceptable compromise solution from the council. we therefore postpone the final vote today and refer the report back to the commission, confident that the council will take its decision as of 1 january 2007 seriously. by voting in favour of the compromise amendments, the compromise text, which has been negotiated during this long process, parliament wants to give an exclamation point that it considers everything in this text to be important and to remind the council that it is now its responsibility to decide what happens next. the text now before us will also retain the references to the charter of fundamental rights and to article 7 of the treaty, because parliament has an interest in creating an agency which is necessary, effective and able to be part of the solution in europe. because there are new and new problems that need to be addressed, that need to be addressed in the area of our fundamental rights. by voting, we help to find a solution and make clear what the european public expects from us: the creation of a functioning, independent but accountable institution. thank you for your help and support.
the rapporteur. now out of the nursery school, the council decision inviting the commission has empowered it to propose the establishment of a human rights agency. three years later, we still feel that there is no consensus between member states on certain fundamental issues. the process of reconciliation between the three institutions has been extremely important, enjoyable and instructive for us. this process of consultation has shown that parliament, the commission and the presidency have been able to reach agreement on the most important issues, but that agreement has still not been reached in the council as a whole. i am very confident and optimistic about this effective negotiation, if you will, for the future. in the preparatory work, we agreed on the most important requirements. i would just like to say in passing that we all want this institution to be independent, accountable, well organised and transparent, so that it increases citizens' confidence in the work of the european institutions. we also accepted the scope of the mandate, because - as my colleague mr kinga has pointed out - we all think it is right that the work of the agency should be directed primarily at the member states and their institutions, that the agency should have the opportunity to express an opinion on european legislation concerning fundamental rights and that it should be able to look at third countries within a certain limited geographical area, since we did not want to take away the opportunity for the agency to deal primarily with the main direction of its work, the european community. my task is to put before parliament the draft council decision which has generated the greatest debate, since there is not and has not been complete agreement on whether this agency should have powers beyond the first pillar. i must inform my colleagues that in our original plans we considered it right to include the examination of our second pillar organs in the agency's remit. however, this did not seem to be a very good chance of agreement, and so - as rapporteur - i withdrew these proposals before the committee on civil liberties and justice before the vote. but there are many of us who believe that the importance of the agency would be diminished if we gave up on the third pillar, and that is why we maintain this intention, this will, even if we have never refrained from thinking in a compromise way, from thinking together in a compromise way, and we will never refrain from doing so. i would therefore like to thank the austrian and finnish presidencies, and above all vice-president frattini, who has worked with great dedication and efficiency to help bring about the final solution. i would ask my colleagues to support the proposal put forward by the libe committee, together with the amendments it contains, and then we will return the competence to the commission, since the commission will have to make a proposal to the council, which we hope will receive the necessary support.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to thank you and my colleagues for the help and backing i have received. as i warned you in my introduction, the agency is highly debated and provokes reactions. but i have to assure all of you, in answer to mrs roure’s question, that the ppe-de group is backing me, and this support will be converted into votes in a few minutes. there will be some delegations who vote against the report for different reasons, mainly questioning the role of the agencies in general, but the ppe-de group is well aware of the need to protect fundamental rights. the rapporteur did not have an easy task, as you could hear before, if you listened carefully. but let me underline the fact that there is a council decision to establish a fundamental rights agency from 2004 extending the mandate of the existing european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia. parliament, the commission and the austrian and finnish presidencies tried to do our best to design a mandate which can enable useful, effective and objective work to be done. this is exactly what our societies are expecting from us.
the rapporteur. it may seem unusual, but first i would like to thank mr kinga for his cooperation, and for the very effective and useful dialogue that has developed between the parliamentary groups in the two committees, and this is mainly thanks to him. today, however, it has become clear that not all our colleagues agree that membership of the european club does not come with an automatic guarantee system for the enforcement of human rights in the member countries. not everyone agrees that we need to build on this guarantee system. some people ask for help and wait. thank you to the people who are asking for help, for wanting to help their own country. someone thinks the european union institutions shouldn't look into their home games of cards. i am proud that my group, along the lines of our common values, supports both proposals, gal kinga's as well as mine, and i am very sorry that some people are making fun of this. i think this mockery would have more success in hyde park than in the european parliament. i continue to urge my fellow mps to overcome their fear of red tape. let them be ashamed of themselves because this is a matter of great importance and consider whether every penny of the common budget is being spent as usefully as it has been now in the eyes of the human rights foundation. we will always be happy to cooperate in improving the efficiency of budget management. i'm looking for your support on this important matter.
the european union has always presented the protection and promotion of fundamental rights as one of its basic policy objectives. in this respect, the creation of the agency to protect and promote these rights is an important tool in meeting this objective within the framework of the recently endorsed ‘the hague programme’ action plan. establishing this agency is therefore a very practical step, as it is a new initiative that will allow the collection and analysis of data at eu level by a genuinely independent centre of expertise. proposals from the commission have legitimately given rise to a wide-ranging debate on the scope of the competences of such an agency. by expanding the mandate of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, we should ensure, on the one hand, that the focus on racism and xenophobia remains an important character of the agency and, on the other, that the agency’s independence, not only with respect to the eu institutions but also with respect to the member states, is maintained. despite these concerns, i am optimistic that the european parliament during the vote will broadly welcome the text proposed by the rapporteur.
the creation of the fundamental rights agency can hardly be overstated, it is certainly a milestone in the fight to protect human rights so important in europe. however, we must state now that it can only fulfil this role if it is given real powers and the means to do so. otherwise, it's downgraded to a paper-making office with no real purpose and no real influence. so we need to create a genuinely independent, effective and wide-ranging body that can effectively deal with human rights violations. particular emphasis should be placed on tackling racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism, which are emerging as europe's dark demons, and on atrocities and discrimination against roma and other national and ethnic minorities, particularly in some new and newly acceding states in central and eastern europe. unfortunately, we have seen many recent examples of these phenomena, which are undermining the soul of europe and which require the agency's particular attention. it is clear from my argument for a strongly licensed agency that i believe it is essential to extend the remit to police and judicial cooperation, including immigration and terrorism, and even to combat trafficking in human beings, crimes against children, drug and arms trafficking, corruption and fraud. i would of course also urge that the common foreign and security policy be extended. i welcome the deeper involvement of the european parliament in the work of the agency, as i believe that the only body of the union directly elected by its citizens is one of the custodians of the cause of human rights.
rapporteur. – mr president, given the fact that we have adopted the amended proposal, i should like to ask mr frattini if he will accept the amendments just adopted by this house, or does he need more time for some final compromises in the council?
rapporteur. – mr president, i therefore request that the vote be postponed and the matter be referred back to the committee responsible, pursuant to rule 53 of the rules of procedure, in order to await the council’s position on the amendments.
the rapporteur. before the vote, which will be very simple, i must correct an unfortunate error. i would ask my colleagues to take note that the new wording of recital 2 (a) was incorrectly inserted in the voting list. i have withdrawn my motions for extending the agency's remit to include the second pillar. however, the motion which i have maintained and which is on the ballot, the new draft text written in place of recital 3a, paragraph 3, has been given a different number. i ask my fellow members to vote with this in mind. if the president thinks it appropriate, i will read the text of the motion, which is short, that we are going to vote on. and let me read it in french for simplicity. (france) 'the agency's powers have enabled it to ensure the protection of human rights, not only in the field of terrorism and organised crime but also in other areas, such as trafficking in human beings, crimes against children, drug and arms trafficking, corruption and fraud, in which certain measures may also weaken the effectiveness of the protection of human rights.' mr president, i thank you and, of course, i apologize to the plenary of this parliament.
the rapporteur. mr president, i will repeat the question my colleague has already put: mr vice-president frattini, do you intend to take up all the amendments which have just been adopted by the plenary or do you want more time to put forward some final compromise proposals?
the rapporteur. mr president, i naturally accept mr frattini's answer, and the process is the same.
the 2006 nobel peace prize was awarded to bangladeshi economist muhhamed yunnus and his bank, grameen bank. the recent decision of the peace prize committee has not only brought joy but also guidance and hope to all who desire a more humane and peaceful world. many of us believe that poverty, social exclusion, is one of the root causes of war, of destructive emotions. a stranger in his own country has lost his human connections and the chance to feel at home in the world again. muhhamed yunnus' micro-credit is not a charity that often eases the conscience of the well-off. he lends money and gives the opportunity to unite and the belief that there is always a chance. let us, the delegates, consider this year's peace prize a challenge and a task. there is also a deep poverty in bangladesh in europe. let's think again and again about the possibilities of small steps, in credit, in business, in increasing knowledge, because small steps go a long way to a life worthy of a human being.
today we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the hungarian revolution of 1956. this is not just a hungarian holiday, but an international one, and heads of state and government from 56 countries have come to hungary to celebrate this day with us. the significance of this event can be compared to the prague spring of 1968, the polish solidarity social movement, without which the fall of soviet-style communism and the transition of 1989-90 in central europe could not have taken place. the hungarian 56 is unique in that it never fought against the soviet army in any other resistance, nor did it ever announce its withdrawal from the warsaw pact or declare neutrality. the heroes of 56 were united in the belief that a small nation could defeat a totalitarian world power. in 1956 we asked for a return to europe. and in 2004, with hungary's accession to the eu, his legacy of 56 was fulfilled.
50 years ago today, the revolution broke out in hungary. the first battle of the war of liberation against soviet oppression took place at the headquarters of the hungarian radio. the insurgents knew that the system was built on lies, not on violence. and the symbol of the lie was the communist party's mouthpiece, the radio. the battle ended in victory for the revolutionaries, and the radio broadcast the words that would become a household saying: "we lied at night, we lied during the day, we lied on all frequencies". violence and lies kept communism alive in hungary, and oppression in the other countries of the soviet bloc was based on it. although the hungarian revolution was crushed by the terrible surplus of tanks, we now know that budapest, prague, gdansk were not in vain, and the victims did not die in vain. they are the reason europe is free and united today. but if we are to prevent violence and lies from ever again becoming the basis of a system on our continent, we must remember. that's why my colleagues and i are proposing that november 4th, the day of the hungarian revolution, be the day of remembrance for the victims of communism in europe.
the european parliament has reached a major milestone in eu integration when it votes on eu legislation to create the legal basis for the second generation schengen information system, signalling that it will do its utmost to ensure that the promises made during enlargement are fulfilled and that new member states join the schengen system as soon as possible. in this process, i would like to thank the rapporteur for doing everything he could to make sure that this was the case. it is precisely to avoid further delays that it has become important to reach an agreement between parliament and the council at first reading. it is therefore strange and full of question marks that while we are struggling here in parliament to achieve the legal framework as soon as possible and are making compromises, the representatives of the governments in the council are voting in favour of a provision which necessarily delays the solution. the most pressing issue on the road to opening internal schengen borders is when technically the new member states will be able to join the schengen information system, and this is causing a significant delay, according to the commission. the objection was made more slowly than planned for sis ii, but it is difficult to assume that there is no political intention behind the delay, when the commission refers to technical reasons. but i ask you, can you justify the existence of a clearly discriminatory situation? is it not irresponsible to burden the new member states with such a security deficit? for hungary, as for all new member states, achieving full schengen membership after accession is one of the main challenges. one of the safeguards of the credibility of enlargement in the eyes of the public is that we must be open to any solution that offers the possibility of joining this system by the deadline. the commission, the council and parliament have a great responsibility in this.
we have reached a very important stage in a long process. thank you to everyone who participated in this workflow, especially the reporter. the current situation is not exactly encouraging for us, however, as we seem to be experiencing a multi-level membership within the union, which is unacceptable to us. the new member states will not be able to join the schengen system in october 2007 either, although the absence of borders is one of the greatest achievements of the european union, especially for citizens of those member states who, during the dictatorships, were either only able to travel to the "old" member states under excessive controls or not at all. the opening of the schengen border will strengthen the sense of belonging to the community among new european citizens and will increase the confidence of citizens in the old member states in the new ones. so it doesn't matter what we join and when. the slippage officially acknowledged by the commission is shocking to us. we know that the new system needs to have adequate security safeguards, but for the newcomers, getting in the door is also a moral issue. we have a common opinion, and that is what the portuguese proposal is about. as a representative of a new country, my feelings are heightened. i am glad that there is solidarity between the member states, but i am also sorry that accession to sis i is not yet certain. and there's bound to be some extra cost involved in whatever we're up against.
large number of immigrants, with special emphasis on women, face multiple discrimination and vulnerability to social exclusion. this is the highest challenge for us how to integrate them into the society, to help them getting access to proper education which helps them to wider employment facilities and to contribution to the development of the european project. proper legal framework is just one side of the coin. implementation of legal commitments by the relevant national authorities, willingness of immigrants to respect fundamental european norms, values and to become the integral part of the society is the other. huge potential lies in successful integration policies since wider employment of immigrants could help with getting forward with lisbon employment targets. no actions can gain success without proper and regular dialogue with immigrant communities. the dialogues are perfect tools for monitoring integration processes, learning about mutual interests, intentions, request as well as obligations, determining and if necessary, altering methods and of inclusion programs. the forthcoming european year of equal opportunities 2007 and the the year of intercultural dialogue 2008 will be a useful and potential framework opportunity to provide immigrant societies with a wide range of information on their rights, opportunities as well as informing them what europe is expecting from them.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. since 2000, the life iii call has spent more than €950 million on a variety of environmental programmes, successfully implementing numerous local, regional and crossborder projects. more importantly, these are the very projects that bring the union closer to the action of ordinary people and that contribute most directly to improving the quality of life of eu citizens. all of this is important at a time when the european union's popularity is at an all-time low. the current situation of life plus and the natura 2000 programme within it is worrying and raises at least two important questions. firstly, it is already clear that the new programme will not be decided on time, and as a result we will not be able to start the environmental programmes as planned in january next year, which i think is a big problem. i therefore propose that we follow the 2004 solution, when the european parliament and the council adopted a regulation to extend the life iii programme, which was then expiring, by two years and eur 317 million. i propose that we now adopt a decision to allow life to continue until the new legislation is adopted, which expires in 2006. the second problem is the council's proposal to allocate 80% of the resources available to the member states. in my view, this is contrary to the logic and practice of the past, which has seen environmental protection as a community policy for the union. on the other hand, it is also contrary to the transnational nature of environmental protection, which requires a supranational approach. i can therefore only support a proposal which leaves the decision on the available funds to the commission and parliament to a greater extent than is provided for in the present proposal.
it was tabled by the foreign affairs committee. the foreign affairs chapter was perhaps the biggest loser in the seven-year budget. this raises the question of whether the european union will be able to play its role as a global player. it is particularly regrettable that in the annual budgetary procedure the council has made even comparatively significant cuts to the external budget. the committee on foreign affairs has therefore decided to restore the preliminary draft budget on a number of points, thus providing for the original amounts. we have set out the european parliament's foreign policy priorities, we have decided that we should provide more to the candidate and potential candidate countries, we have decided that we should give more to the countries belonging to the eastern neighbourhood policy, we have decided that palestine also needs more humanitarian aid. the committee on budgets did not agree with all our proposals, so we are re-submitting these proposals on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and ask you to support the committee on foreign affairs' proposal in the interests of a responsible and coherent foreign policy.
drafted by the committee on petitions. i would like to speak on behalf of the committee on petitions on the budget of the european ombudsman. we often talk about bringing europe closer to its citizens, helping citizens better understand what the european union is all about. the european ombudsman's office is a small institution that does a lot of work on this issue. it is therefore very important that the ombudsman has an adequate budgetary resource to enable him to carry out his duties successfully and efficiently. in april this year, we gave a positive opinion on the european ombudsman in the discharge procedure. i would like to remind everyone that we have talked about a model (for other institutions, with clearly defined competences) and a well-managed budget. the european ombudsman is saving on translation costs, does not want to create new posts, and that is why i ask on behalf of my committee that we support the modest increase in the budget requested by the european ombudsman, necessarily taking into account the forthcoming enlargement, emphasising and keeping in mind budgetary discipline and the high level of services to be provided to citizens.
i would like to join my colleague marcus ferber in saying that the 2007 budget is indeed of special importance for the whole of europe, including the new member states and hungary. this is the first year of the 2007-13 financial plan which we have drawn up together and which concerns us in its entirety, so it is very important that 2007 should be a good starting point for the years ahead, especially in view of its long-term and conflict-free design. so this is a tremendous opportunity and a tremendous responsibility for all of us. the opportunity to use the resources approved in the financial plan to launch cohesion and structural policies which will not only help us catch up but also provide the basis for europe's future and competitiveness, but also the responsibility to overcome the national egoism which has unfortunately been prevalent in the past in both the old and the new member states. consider the common value of europe as a whole and the eu's international role.
i'd like to bring four ideas and one problem. the commission's budget for next year is well below the financial perspective, so that the union's competitiveness will not increase but rather decrease. secondly, i'm afraid the council has even tried to scrap this modest plan. and third, this is not going to be progress, it's just some kind of failed survival experiment. fourthly, it is good news for the new member states that the high rate of reduction has little or no impact on cohesion support. the problem is that it is of paramount importance that the use of languages should be accompanied by one of the union's characteristics: 'unity in diversity'. we're a long way from that at this point. translations of presentations are not, or are only done at the last minute, and sometimes urgently. we have to attend many meetings where only a fraction of the delegates get interpretation into their mother tongue. the enlargement of the union in january further increases legitimate demands. linguistic diversity is a value that cannot be compromised.
mr president, hungary has commemorated the 50th anniversary of the 1956 revolution. old women and men remember the revolutionary events they witnessed, and young people try to image what happened 50 years ago when the anti-stalinist revolution united the hungarians, the reformed communists and the democrats. but some thousand extreme right-wing rioters changed everything last night. they attacked the police, burned down shops, some of them threw stones and bottles at a synagogue, shouting anti-semitic slogans under the banner of the hungarian nazi movement. these tragic events show us how important it is to remember, and to allow us to remember, the tragedies and crimes of the 20th century. mr takkula’s report rightly calls upon us to commemorate the victims of the nazi and stalinist regimes. but it is not enough to commemorate: we have to combat present-day extremist ideologies as well. stalinism is over, thank god; but the danger of the neo-nazi extremists is still alive. every democratic party has to condemn extreme right-wing ideologies and violence. we have to learn from the lesson of the weimar republic. the smallest concession to the extreme right could lead to huge tragedies.
members of the house of representatives, mr. president. allow me to congratulate mr hannu takkula on the creation of the citizens for europe programme (2007-2013) and on the latest version of the report. today, the european union is a dense network of institutional, social and political links, whose threads have been further woven together by enlargement. in this process, the creation of an active european citizen plays a key role, and its existence is essential for the democratic and balanced development of the european union. the creation of a european citizen who is responsible for himself and for his society requires the emphasis to be placed on values which are now 'lost', such as freedom, dignity, tolerance and solidarity, which are the fundamental values and cohesive forces of our european society. i also believe that it is important to ensure a balanced integration of citizens, but above all to establish a dialogue between cultures and views. it's the only way to work together towards a common goal, to create our own ideas, while embracing differences and respecting diversity. only mutual understanding, solidarity and solidarity can lead to a sense of identity as european citizens. i support the creation of a european citizenship based on shared values, history and culture. it is important to promote and respect the values and achievements of today's citizens, while not forgetting the memories of the past. by putting our common cultural heritage at the forefront, we strengthen the foundations of our common future. for me, european citizenship is nothing more than - in a system of democratic rights and obligations - a responsibility for ourselves, for our country, for the european union; the free exercise of our rights while respecting the similar rights of others. i would like to live in a common european citizenship.
on behalf of the pse group. i welcome the compromise package drawn up by the council and the european parliament, which in many respects strengthens the commission's proposal. it is good to see that the european parliament is so united in banning or restricting a dangerous substance. the health of the people, the protection of the environment, the desire for a healthy life are more important than narrow industrial interests. chemicals were a problem, but no one's arguing that anymore. the need for stricter regulation of chemicals is also the subject of reach, which no longer regulates just one specific substance but some 30 000 compounds. as for today's submission, it's been scientifically proven that perfluorooctane sulfonate is a harmful substance. it is a hazard to human health, is persistent, i.e. it does not break down, and is bioaccumulative, i.e. it accumulates in body tissues, and its use should therefore be restricted. i consider it a success that it is banned in more areas than originally proposed and is only used for a transitional period in others. in the event of a dangerous fire, the fire-fighting foam will be usable for a while. if we're going to save lives, we're going to have to use what we have on hand. however, in the long term, it must be replaced by substances that are not harmful to the human body. i think it is particularly positive that the principle of substitution has already been incorporated into this legislation, which means - as everyone knows - that a toxic substance must be replaced by another, harmless substance, and that the research and introduction of this new substance is the responsibility of the manufacturer. pfoss will therefore only be used in the long term where it cannot be replaced and where it does not come into direct contact with the human body. i hope that those who now vote for substitution in this legislation will also vote for substitution in reach for other compounds.
the gulf summit was a great success, proving once again that the union's greatest strength is unity. without the gulf summit, the russian president would never have used a more peaceful tone with individual member states. i congratulate our finnish friends, and many countries can learn from finnish diplomacy, which has always been able to dialogue with russia, even in the most difficult times. it is clear that there is a mutual but asymmetric dependence on energy supplies between the european union and russia. we eu states are more dependent as importers, but we must also see the dependence of russia. we have set ourselves the goal of reducing our energy dependence on russia, but for most member states - including hungary - there is no viable alternative in the medium term. as far as renewable energy is concerned, mr barosso, the european commission has no real concept of renewable energy. we judge russia on the basis of the rule of law, and we have every right to do so. but is it the rule of law, mr barosso, if there is no legal certainty in the european commission? when the eu changes its intervention rules for maize in the middle of the maize harvest? this is not legal certainty and it's not the rule of law. we have every right to criticize the russians, but we must also uphold the rule of law. i congratulate you on the summit and i ask mr barosso to take action, because otherwise hungary will turn to the european court of justice, because this is not legal certainty, this is not the rule of law. let's set an example for putin and the russian democrats.
i would like to point out that in spain the current government's involvement with the terrorist organization eta is not new. as a former hungarian ambassador to spain, i have seen that all democratic governments have held talks with representatives of the organisation. this was the case with the suárez government, several of felipe gonzález's governments, and the government of josé maría aznar. why i spoke and i speak on behalf of the 13 hungarian epp representatives, because for us the issue of the enforcement of minority rights is extremely important. there are many hungarians, our compatriots, living in minority groups outside hungary. one thing we must emphasise is that minority rights must be enforced within the framework of the rule of law and european norms. i want to emphasize that, regardless of who voted, we will continue to stand up for human rights and minority rights and condemn the use of violence and terrorism in all its forms.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. vice-president barrot has outlined a very generous programme for inland navigation, which is to be congratulated, and we in parliament consider that the parliament's report, prepared by mrs wortman-kool, is a worthy statement and report for this generous programme. here, then, our intentions meet the commission's to the very end. i would like to highlight one of the themes, infrastructure, from among the many strategic sectors listed. the recent floods have shown that we need to be careful about improving the navigability of the infrastructure, including the rivers, in order to ensure that we can actually and sustainably provide navigation. floods make navigation unpredictable and unreliable, so the focus of the naiades program is on flood protection. i would like to highlight environmental aspects - this should be emphasised here - such as the establishment and maintenance of price zones. i believe we must be careful and consistent in our approach to environmental and seaworthiness requirements. i'll just briefly address the other question. it is important for the navigability of the danube that the whole river should be able to enjoy high-quality transport conditions, and here i would like to highlight serbia among the third countries. for serbia, the danube has been greatly enhanced as a shipping route and i therefore propose close cooperation in this respect between the future eu member states, romania, bulgaria and the black sea region. all these suggestions are reflected in the report, and i would like to thank my colleague, mr corien wortman-kool, for this.
several have indicated that the secondment directive and the services directive are closely linked. i regret that we will not be negotiating together in november, when it would have been logical and reasonable. as for our position, there is an important philosophical difference with the approach taken by my socialist and green colleagues. we are focusing on accelerating and strengthening the economy, because without boosting growth we cannot create new jobs, we cannot ensure the long-term financing of the large social distribution systems, we cannot preserve european social values. without progress on reconciling work and family life and improving the competitiveness of smes, we will not have the resources to tackle the massive redundancies caused by relocation at european level. so the question is, do we want to hinder or strengthen the performance of the economy? it seems to me that in the debate on the posting policy, we are trying to impede it, and that is not a good sign for the future. to speak only of the most extreme problem, the requirement for company representatives is completely contrary to the freedom to provide services, and in practice constitutes a serious competitive disadvantage. it would require the construction of a local structure, which is expensive, pointless and completely unviable, so i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the 7th amendment is a key issue for us. if it is not adopted, we will not support the vote on the directive. please take that into account when you vote.
mr. president, i have to ask you... while we were sitting here on a monday during our last plenary session, events were taking place in budapest that deserve the attention of the whole of europe. in hungary, for example, the fiftieth anniversary of the 1956 revolution was celebrated. however, this celebration was a strange success, since no one was allowed in. among the high-ranking guests was one of the italian deputy prime ministers, who said that people were being left out of these commemorations. meanwhile, those who wanted to commemorate peacefully in the streets were brutally attacked, beaten, and seriously injured by police who fired rubber bullets at them from above their heads and forced them off the streets. peaceful marchers who wanted to celebrate 1956 peacefully were unable to do so. it's a shame, it's a shame in the middle of europe, to all those who fight for human and civil liberties, i call your attention not to support this policy.
mr. president, i have to ask you... it is a sad fact that in the countries of europe there is an increasing frequency of incidents of unrest, internal tensions, violence and destruction. flying stones and burning cars triggered a vigorous response from police forces, and the events made headlines in newspapers and on television. it's bad for europe, it's bad for the protesters, it's bad for the policemen, in a word, it's bad for democracy. but it is even more damaging when certain politicians, certain political parties feel entitled to pronounce a sentence before independent judicial bodies are authorized to investigate. the hungarian socialist delegation was deeply shocked to read the statement of the presidency of the european people's party on the events of the fiftieth anniversary. we're not surprised at joseph. the serious allegations made by the european people's party before the investigation is concluded are prejudicial and on behalf of the hungarian socialist delegation we reject them in the strongest possible terms.
mr. president, i have to ask you... in 1989/90, hungary established the foundations of democracy and the rule of law in a non-violent manner. now, 16 years later, the spirit of violence has been unleashed, because the current government has unfortunately found it courageous to use the tool of intimidation to achieve its goals, thus suppressing democratic opposition. violence is reprehensible, don't get me wrong. the use of violent groups as a vehicle for violence is unacceptable, but respect for the rule of law is also essential in problem situations. the defenders of hungarian democracy must take all legal measures to prevent a repeat of the violent events that took place in budapest on 23 october, when the police violently dispersed a crowd commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the 1956 revolution and failed to respect the most basic requirements of human rights. we hungarians believe in hard-won democratic freedom and want to live our human rights.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european commission's reduction of administrative expenditure in 2007 to the detriment of the new member states could be a form of discrimination against them. cutting red tape is a good thing, but it puts 800 new member states' posts at risk. these civil servants should have been recruited in the first half of 2006. i call on the commission to fulfil its duty and to proceed with the recruitment of new officials at the agreed pace. i hope the european commission doesn't listen to fidesz! i do not want the new member states to be hit by the slander campaign they have launched, that it is not worth giving equal treatment to the new member states because they are post-communist and trample on human rights. whatever gál kinga and józsef szájer say in this room, for me the key point is the interview today with foreign affairs committee chairman elmar brok: hungarian democracy, the rule of law, is not in danger.
mr. president, i have to ask you... a few days ago, a power outage, if only for an hour, left millions of europeans without electricity. the unprecedented blackout since the 1970s has highlighted once again the increasing difficulty of adapting energy regulation, which is essentially a national competence, to the requirements of energy security in the 21st century. at the same time, the risks in the gas supply are becoming more apparent. the russian-georgian gas dispute that has erupted in recent weeks has made it clear that russia is now openly willing to put its energy position at the service of its political goals. this explains, but makes it even more alarming for the eu, the fact that russia, which plays a key role in our gas supply, does not want to sign the european energy charter. the only answer, with our vulnerability now twice as great, is a common eu energy policy based on solidarity and speaking the same language at international level. the green paper on energy, currently under discussion in parliament, can provide a good starting point for this.
mr. president, i have to ask you... first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission and its rapporteur on their assessment of this difficult subject. i particularly welcome the comments on labour market flexibility and the targeted approach to education. i think our conclusions point in the same direction. as a country in the east, and one which is about to join the euro, i would like to make only four brief comments. first, in the context of the enlargement of the euro area, there should be no different standard of inclusion than the political standard for those who are in it. secondly, it is important to include the new member states as soon as possible and therefore there can be no interpretation, especially in terms of inflation, sustainability and the reference rate, which lags behind the eu economic average and therefore practically delays the entry of new member states that are still catching up with wages and prices for a long time. mr kozlík has made that very clear. thirdly, i agree that member states' statistics must be strictly monitored and that the commission must respond, if nothing else, by political means, such as summit information, when a member state is extremely undisciplined, when it is on the wrong track. we cannot accept prolonged confrontation. the commission has a political responsibility in this. fourthly, it is essential to deepen the internal market and to ensure that everyone meets the criteria. the new member states will do that. but there is a contradiction. on the one hand, the labour market is closed to the new member states, schengen is very restrictive, the employment services and posting directives are very restrictive, and on the other hand, we have to open the financial services market to everyone. this imbalance does not facilitate the integration of the member states in the context of deepening the internal market.
recently, there have been several reports that the commission is preparing to reform the milk market, one important element of which would be the abolition of milk quotas. the commission has not contested these notifications so far. this news is worrying only because in recent years reform has been carried out mainly in sectors where the law would have been repealed anyway. such a compelling reason does not exist in the case of the milk sector, as the milk sector regulation is valid until 2015 and the quota system has provided sufficient stability for the market and producers. the abolition of the quota system would reduce the income of dairy farmers across europe and lead to further concentration in the sector. tens of thousands of farmers producing for local markets would be forced to stop production. this would lead to a significant reduction in milk production in member states with less favourable conditions. this would force many member states to rely heavily on imports to cover their consumption. although milk production in hungary is already mainly large-scale and competitive, our country would not be interested in abolishing the quota system either. due to the current economic difficulties, the consumption of milk is low, and our country cannot use the available milk quota. at the same time, we hope that once the economic situation improves, consumption will rise again. hungary would therefore particularly be unacceptable to a restructuring of the quota system that would shift quotas from member states with lower quota utilisation to countries with higher quota utilisation.
the reason for maintaining the strict milk quota system is that the current quotas allow for more milk to be produced than the eu's internal consumption. direct payments to milk producers should be fully decoupled from production from 2007, i.e. the aid should not be paid to the milk producer but to the holder of a milk quota during the reference period in the form of a flat-rate payment for the area sown. under the current rules, the milk quota system will remain in force until 2014/15. commissioner boel stated that the review should raise the issue of quotas, without giving any further details. the maintenance of the quota system is the only guarantee of market and price stability. without quotas, production would increase significantly, prices would fall because of surpluses, and the big farms could easily choke out the small farms. in the meantime, without aid, only the most competitive plants will be able to compete with import pressure and succeed on the export market. in hungary, milk production is falling steadily because of economic problems, and despite the fact that buying-in prices are not lower, we are using about 70% of the community quota available to us. unfortunately, contrary to western european practice, the producers do not own the processing plants. the abolition of the quota system would increase the proportion of imported products, make the general competitiveness problems of hungarian economies even more evident and probably accelerate the decline in domestic production. i'm not advocating the abolition of the milk quota system.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the use of current community payments, in parallel with the european council decision of december 2005 granting portugal exceptional treatment by way of exemption from the co-financing requirement, raises serious questions in the context of budgetary decision-making processes. despite the wide agreement on the exceptional acceptance of the exemption from the co-financing requirement which benefits portugal, questions of legitimacy, problems with the council's horseshoe-type negotiating methods, may arise. although i am not opposed to a one-off advantage for portugal, i believe it is important that in future no member state should be granted special treatment simply to persuade it to support a particular convention. on the contrary, equality and transparency as fundamental criteria must prevail in all circumstances at all levels of negotiations with the council. in future, we must not only prevent such forms of positive discrimination, but, once we have committed ourselves to the cap, rural development regulation must not be based on exclusion. we must eliminate all forms of discrimination. i agree with the rapporteur that the system should not discriminate or give preference, but rather a fair, needs-based approach to allocating resources on the basis of objective criteria. however, i do not agree with the rapporteur that financing direct payments under the first pillar would be a good solution, because while this would relieve the pressure on the european budget, it would create serious financing problems in the tight budgetary situation of the new member states due to the convergence programmes needed to introduce the euro, thus further increasing the differences between member states. for the same reason, i do not consider voluntary modulation to be the most appropriate solution. in future, while respecting these agreements, we must strive to create a truly unified rural policy rather than further derogations.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the european court of auditors' report, which, as in previous years, is the result of very thorough and high-quality work, concludes that the european budget has been used in a fundamentally legal and regular manner. i must stress the importance of this because the report cannot give an unqualified positive opinion this year, or even in the last 12 years. this is because some 80% of the european budget is spent in the member states under shared responsibility, where the court of auditors' in-depth audits are more likely to detect errors with financial implications. however, this does not mean that all payments to the union budget are affected by errors, nor that errors can be interpreted as indications of fraud. in its first reaction, the european commission objects to the court's methodology, but continues to target the positive das of 2009. to this end, it has launched a reform process, including the development of an integrated internal control framework and the introduction of performance-based accounting, which can be seen as a significant step forward. now that the member states have recognised the need for the declaration requested from them, at the initiative of the european parliament, we can look forward to a very effective court of auditors.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i, along with many other representatives from new member states, did not vote in favour of the services directive at first reading last year. but i'm going to support it in this vote. i did not support it at the time because i wanted to send a warning that the interests of the new member states should not be ignored when important legislation is being drawn up in a reunited europe. that warning was well-meant. this has helped the council to make progress in the much-debated area of criminal and labour law rules that impede freedom of services, for example. i would like to stress in particular that the new text obliges all member states to take account of the legislation which currently hinders the freedom to provide services. these are all steps in the right direction. the process since the first reading has involved the new member states and the european parliament in a much more active way. i am very confident that the conclusion of the often difficult and bitter debates on the services directive will help to put the union out of its crisis and give new impetus to the internal market, giving our smes the chance to create more jobs and contribute to faster growth in the union economy. but we also have to learn from this process. we need to work harder to restore trust between new and old members. this means that we must stop worrying that the new members' cheaper labour and services will threaten the social model of the old ones. this is unfounded and betrays the principle of free competition which is the basis of the union's economy. new members have long since opened their commodity and capital markets, which has not always been easy. now it's the old guys' turn to open up the service market. the directive that is now being born is a step forward. of course, we wanted to go bigger, but everyone was giving us a little bit of leeway. the services directive must now stand the test of practice and the european court of justice. i wish you both the best of luck.
mr. president, i have to ask you... it's a good day to be a member of the european parliament. good, because we're seeing some big results. it is a great achievement that after the constitution has stalled and before the fifth enlargement of the european union is completed, we will probably be able to achieve the free flow of services by a large majority. do you remember? a year and a half ago, the polish plumber was the epitome of xenophobia, which must be condemned in all its forms. for a year and a half we have seen no hope of reaching an agreement between employers and employees, between the old and the new member states, between the left and the right. it is a great achievement that today the european parliament is firmly opposed to discrimination. today, the distinction between old and new member states has disappeared. it is a huge achievement to create new opportunities for all 476 million people in the union. it's a huge achievement to create a legal opportunity for those who are currently forced to enter the black economy. as a result, workers with legitimate grievances can no longer assert their rights only in the luxembourg courts, where litigation can take years. it is a huge achievement that will benefit employers, workers, smes, large companies and consumers alike and bring us closer to achieving the lisbon objectives that we all declared. it is a serious achievement that the european parliament has managed to articulate the political message of the directive, and that many people have decided to vote for this proposal between two readings. if the law is well implemented by the member states, then in ten years' time we can look back and be proud to say that we have done what our home, europe, demanded. thank you for your attention, and congratulations to all the participants who contributed to this.
the directive is undoubtedly a very important step towards creating the practical possibility of freedom to provide services in addition to the principle provisions of the treaty of rome. i hope that the practical application of one of the four freedoms will help to eliminate the bad practice of member states using a number of methods to prevent the principle from being applied. however, following the amendments on exceptions, it is questionable which areas should not be covered in practice by legislation facilitating the flow of services and whether it actually fulfils its original purpose in this form. i think the european parliament has missed a great opportunity to vote in favour of a proposal which could really help to improve the eu's competitiveness by creating a single internal market. however, i welcome the fact that the directive fully respects the right to negotiate, conclude, extend and enforce collective agreements, and the right to strike and to take part in organised action, in accordance with the provisions governing industrial relations in the member states. overall, i think that although we cannot be completely satisfied with the outcome, as the list of exceptions and restrictive conditions is perhaps too long, the directive will cover a wide range of economic activities and will impose a kind of discipline on eu members. i also consider it very important that the legislation will improve the awareness and information of businesses and reduce their vulnerability.
as a representative from a new member state, i have fought hard for the rights of our companies and our workers, and i have written and spoken to the commission on several occasions to ask for the protection and respect of workers' rights. in the process, we have encountered many legal, political, and economic problems. several people have accused us of social dumping, of undermining workplace safety and other absurdities. today, most of the cases - including the cases of hungarian workers in germany, soko bunda and pannonia - have been resolved, court judgments have been handed down against the german authorities and compensation proceedings are already under way. today's adoption of the services directive is a huge step towards clarifying the uncertainties. a compromise that no one is happy with, but a good compromise that will advance our cause, namely the realisation of one of the union's fundamental freedoms, the free movement of services.
i welcome the report which correctly reflects our opinions on the evolution of esdp in the future. esdp should further enhance its civil-military character; the best combinations of all assets and instruments are able to offer us the optimal stabilisation result in the field. the aim is to stabilise a crisis management area with a better perspective in the long run. in this way, we should not be inspired by the military model of nato, but be able to develop our own approach as is the case in congo. belligerents trust us more since eu is not driven by a leader nation with political arrière-pensées and its decisions are taken through transparency rules. rapid reaction in movement and transport is a common challenge for all eu operations regardless of their nature. europe should better explore the use of and synergies among its civilian transport assets. europeans are leaders in civilian air and maritime transport and such advantage should also serve our rapid reaction in crisis periods. multi-modal planning, optimal combination of different type of assets (air, sea, helicopters, rail) and better use of civilian assets need to be integrated into our concepts of how we conduct operations.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the proportionate participation of women in decision-making is one of the main challenges of equal opportunities policy. this will also be reflected in the equal opportunities programme for the next period. this ambition must be expressed in all areas, including foreign policy. equal opportunities cannot be restricted to the territory of the union. in all regions of the world, the presence of women in political life should be encouraged. ideas are just words without the political will to back them up. it is therefore important that the six prime ministers of the czech republic, denmark, finland, france, hungary and sweden adopted the european pact for gender equality at the march summit, which extends the gender perspective to cooperation with the commission. this will hopefully open up further opportunities, such as better empowerment of women in the labour market or the creation of a work-life balance. my colleague has done an excellent job, and i recommend that you accept the report.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i can only congratulate bauer edit for bringing such expertise and commitment to this sad but very serious issue. the only way to do that is to support him in the vote tomorrow. i should like to thank mr frattini for his determination. this is what is needed when trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, has become one of the most alarming phenomena in the world since the 1990s. i'm sure you've all heard of the shocking estimates that we've been hearing and saying all day. what saddens me most is that 40 to 50 percent of all victims are children. unicef estimates that one million children are trafficked internationally each year. one root of the problem is the desperate situation in the countries of origin. however, we must also recognize that the main driver of trade is demand. traffickers would not have been so successful if the host countries had not had such a high demand for exploitable women, children and cheap labour. it is futile to condemn the sexual exploitation and enslavement of children by almost the entire world, and it is futile for the police in some countries to do all they can to expose pedophile rings when the bulk of human trafficking is international. it is therefore necessary to strengthen cross-border cooperation with a view to protecting victims, effectively prosecuting traffickers and developing comprehensive prevention strategies. trafficking in human beings is currently the fastest growing criminal activity in the union. the fight against trafficking in women and children is also a moral issue, and i have no doubt that we have a duty to act against it. it is a sad thing that such a debate should be held at a time like this in the european parliament, in the middle of empty seats, because i think this is a question that affects all of us, because it concerns our children.
in the context of mr diamandouros's report on his activities in 2005, i would like to draw your attention to a matter on which the european parliament has already adopted a resolution this year. in 2005, the european ombudsman sent a special report to parliament, as he had discovered unlawful discrimination in the different financial treatment of eu staff members raising children with special educational needs. in its draft recommendation, it asked the european commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that parents whose children with special educational needs are excluded from european schools because of their degree of disability are not required to contribute to the cost of education. in a resolution, parliament called on the commission to respect the principle of equal opportunities. however, the necessary steps were not taken, as unfortunately, during the autumn schooling, there was a case of refusal to admit a student with special educational needs. the practice of disregard for human rights has led to the breakdown of many families and the frequent abandonment of the european institutions by brussels. the right to education, the principle of equal opportunities and the prohibition of any form of discrimination, as enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights and the ec treaty, constitute the fundamental foundations of the union's legal order. i therefore ask the european commission, in the light of the ombudsman's recommendation and the parliament's resolution, to create equal educational conditions for children with special educational needs in the spirit of european ideals.
mr. president, i have to ask you... one popular theory is that mankind was lifted out of its environment by speech, or the ability to communicate. i'm not an ethologist, so i don't know if that's what happened or if there were other factors. but one thing is certain: humans are the most communicative creatures on earth. in other words, the innate, natural quality of humans is advanced communication. the problem comes from the fact that not only we humans, but also the institutions, organizations, groups that we create want to communicate, which is not inherent in these organizations, is the essence of it. a study of history reveals that in the past, the institutions that organize and control our lives did not always seek high-level communication, and sometimes even explicitly refrained from it. the quest for ever-full communication with society is a hallmark of our democracy, made possible by the telecommunications revolution of the 20th century. without radio, tv, the internet, we wouldn't be able to talk about this issue here today. after all, i would argue that the european union is one of the most open and communicative organizations that we have ever experienced in europe. it's not perfect, far from it, but it's the best one yet. you could use fewer technical terms or abbreviations, your concepts could be clearer, more understandable, and so on. but this is of no use if the eu is not credible as a communicator. without authenticity, no meaningful message will get through. and here i must say something: the biggest destroyers of the union's credibility are none other than the politicians and governments of our member states. they are the ones who only refer to the eu as the cause of the problems, while the union's positive results are always mentioned as the results of the government. this white paper will only succeed if the member states are interested in developing and supporting a new common european communication policy.
the communication is pragmatic if it is must be based on regular dialogue with european citizen, discussion and clarification of eu’s goals and strategies, aiming at the development of the successful european project. part of the responsibility lies on the eu, but the other part on member states. efficiency is the main target. therefore the communication must be target-oriented and should have a legal base. it is a must that the dynamic european society itself play a decisive role. the communication should reach out to all members of the society through a variety of tools, including traditional methods and new communication technology. communicating through clearly defined messages, clear visions on europe and european policies on the citizens’ own languages. european citizens would like to see europe as a model of growing economy, competitiveness social cohesion and solidarity and would like to feel that they are part of the decision-making processes. however, correct communication must be made up not only introducing success stories, best practices, added values but challenges, problems that our societies must prepare for and find solution to them together. this is what we should work for.
skepticism, a failed constitution and growing mistrust of the enlargement process, the new member states and the union itself - these are the consequences of a poor european communication policy. in this context, we should welcome the commission's white paper and its intention to improve the relationship between the union and its citizens. the creation of a european social sphere of well-informed citizens across national borders should undoubtedly be the aim of an effective european communication policy. on the one hand, we need to significantly improve information about the functioning and objectives of the european institutions, and on the other hand, we need to be able to listen to the citizens of the member states and make them an active part of european policy-making. citizens are most effectively reached at local, regional and national level, and information can only be made more effective by strengthening the links between these levels and the union institutions and by making the flow of information more efficient. it is not enough to create appropriate two-way channels of communication, the message itself must be made comprehensible, intelligible. to do this, we need to eliminate the eu jargon, which is often difficult to understand even by the expert public. the european project and its success also depend on the feeling of belonging on the part of those for whom and by whom it is intended - the citizens of the union.
mr. president, i have to ask you... trade is a very important element in relations between russia and the european union. the basis for trade is legal certainty and predictability and, accordingly, respect for bilateral trade agreements. the eu should insist on full compliance with the principles and rules laid down in the partnership and cooperation agreement. the russian ban on imports of polish meat products and other agricultural products is in breach of these principles and rules. these measures are disproportionate and unjustified. these should have been withdrawn long ago. the trade dispute is unresolved because russia has shown no willingness to cooperate. the eu must stand up for the partnership and cooperation agreement, show solidarity with our polish friends, and act as one to encourage the russian side to respect trade agreements. we must make it clear that the eu will not tolerate any discriminatory measures against any of its trading partners. the unified position is also important because russia is now projecting to impose an import ban on all meat products from the eu as a result of the accession of romania and bulgaria. the case is also of particular importance for hungary, since in russia a large quantity of wine is marketed under the name "tokaji", which has nothing to do with the tokaji region. russia is thus in breach of the rules of the partnership agreement concerning the protection of different origins. the eu must therefore act as one in this case.
drafted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - mr president, i have to go. the romanian government deserves all credit for its efforts in the integration process in romania. the romanian people deserve to see accession become a reality. in the opinion adopted unanimously by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which i have noted, i emphasised the position of the commission on the issues raised by the committee, the rights of children and the rights of national minorities, many of which were included in our report as a compromise solution, thanks to the rapporteur, mr moscovici. why is that so important? because while everything seems to be going well, in reality the needs of the minority community like autonomy are considered taboo. and in the meantime, hungarian-populated regions do not have equal access to eu funds. multiculturalism in higher education today means in the romanian reality that hungarian lecturers who put up a hungarian "no smoking" sign at the trilingual university in kolozsvár are being fired from the university. i hope that the 1st of january will bring a change in the lives of the entire population of the country, including the hungarian community, and this inevitable change will result in a change in mentality. that the issues that matter, the minority issues, are not tools of the showcase.
mr president, today we are discussing the last reports by this house on bulgaria and romania. just three months before the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome, we are welcoming another two members into the family. we know that there are still some reforms to be completed, but i am convinced that both governments are determined to continue their efforts to satisfy the requirements described in these reports. i would like to praise mr moscovici and mr van orden for their outstanding work and thank them for the excellent cooperation we have had in respect of both reports over the last two and a half years. i would like to add that i am very happy with the choice of meglena kuneva as bulgarian commissioner, and with her portfolio, which covers a very important policy area. allow me to make a specific point on the minority law issue in romania. it is very well known that this minority law today, almost two years on, is still pending between committees in the romanian parliament. i expect the romanian government to keep its promise and hope that the law will be adopted very soon. in conclusion, i should like to welcome the people of bulgaria and romania to a place in which they have always belonged. their accession marks the end of the artificial absence of our family and opens new horizons for the future. (applause)
mr. president, i have to ask you... i am a committed supporter of romanian integration. however, many think differently, partly because the romanian commitments have not always been in line with their implementation. let me give you two examples. despite the commitments, there is still no minority law in romania. it is also worrying that while leonard orban was speaking about the multilingualism of romania at the hearing of the commissioner responsible for future multiculturalism, two teachers at the university of kolozsvár were locked out because they wanted to validate the university's own commitment, that is, they put hungarian inscriptions on the buildings. i don't want people who don't trust their commitments to be right. commitments at european level must be supplemented by implementation at european level. in all respects, membership of the european union requires respect for the rights of the one and a half million hungarian minority and for cultural and administrative self-determination, because problems must be solved where they arise. autonomy is needed in the life of the university in kolsvár and in the life of the hungarian community as well, as the examples of south tyrol and catalonia prove. i continue to believe that romania will earn the trust that was voted in and that its accession will open a new chapter in the history of both the european union and romania.
if the european court of auditors' phare report were to be summed up in one sentence, it would be that a very large part of the 806 million euro allocated from the available budget was wasted money in romania. the court's investigation found that the projects were realised, but that a large proportion of them were operating outside their original objectives and that the majority of the projects audited simply could not be made sustainable. the 'mistakes' and 'lack of clarity' listed in the report are unfortunately a source of annoyance for european investors. the contracts are consistently misinterpreted by the romanian parties and therefore make it impossible for the eu investors to fulfil their obligations on time and to recover their costs. the romanian party refuses to pay for the additional work and costs incurred as a result of the delay in the execution. meanwhile, the authorities are constantly changing their decisions, the legal framework and the way they interpret them. who is responsible for the fact that the romanian state has spent the money in the wrong way and sometimes not on what it received? recently, the hungarian-language signs on the walls of the three-lingual babes-bolyai university were taken down by the administration and crushed in a brutal manner in front of the students. i ask why the sign "no smoking!" in romania, which will become an eu member in a few days, cannot be posted in hungarian? i hope that the romanian commissioner's first sign of commitment to the eu will be to call on the authorities of his country to restore freedom of speech as soon as possible.
my fellow members of parliament! mr. president, i have to ask you... romania's accession to the european union is a historic step forward, bringing profound changes in the country's social and economic life that will have a positive impact on its population as well as on the development of the european union. in recent years, romania has made rapid progress in both the economic and the judicial fields. however, i believe that there are still serious shortcomings in the fight against corruption and organised crime:there is therefore a need for tangible results in the fight against trafficking in human beings,particularly trafficking in girls. the european union is now not only an economic community but also a social,political and cultural one, with a strong emphasis on the protection of fundamental human rights and the fight against intolerance, racism and all forms of discrimination. romania should therefore pay more attention to the protection of the roma minority and the hungarian community. it is important to improve the living conditions of the roma minority, to provide them with work and adequate resources. i believe that only the principle of zero tolerance can be applied to racism against roma,while further efforts are needed to ensure non-segregation, good quality education and equal access to healthcare. the protection of the hungarian minority can only be ensured by measures taken in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and self-government. it would be important to provide full financial support to hungarian students in higher education. i welcome the early accession of romania to the european union andthereby the improvement of the situation of the hungarians living there. we cannot allow economic interests to prevail over human rights in the process of accession!
mr president, colleagues will recall last week’s exhibition in parliament showing the multilingual attainment of the babeş-bolyai university in cluj, romania. a wholly regrettable incident cast serious doubts over the commitment of the university to genuine multilingualism. in 2005, the university’s senate passed a resolution that notices in the university should be displayed in all its three languages: romanian, hungarian and german. yet attempts to introduce hungarian language notices in the university building last week were prevented by force, and those involved were sacked by the university on monday. there is a far-reaching contradiction here. either the university is indeed multilingual, meaning that it must accept the full equality of the hungarian language, or it is not, in which case it should stop pretending that it is.
mr. president, i have to ask you... the european research framework programme is on track and the agreements are on time. i see a strong guarantee to keep and motivate our researchers. we have made several proposals to make participation easier and more transparent. the intensity of the evaluation procedures, the wide availability of information, can widen the range of people who can be involved in these european projects. however, i regret that the council and the commission were adamant that they could not ensure the eligibility of non-reimbursable vat as a supported cost, even though our proposal and its justification were supported by the court of auditors. however, the successful mechanism of optional flat-rate funding opens up further opportunities for our universities and research institutions to participate in a broad and sustainable way in the longer term. the rules for participation have thus changed positively, and this is a great joy and a good opportunity for researchers in the new member states.
the seventh framework programme is not just another framework programme, as it has been designed in its content, organisation, implementation modes and management tools; as a key contribution to the re-launched lisbon strategy by placing the emphasis on innovation and knowledge for growth and employment. by bringing and supporting new, innovative ideas through the fp7 via extended transnational cooperation, the aim is to effectively bring science and society closer together. one has to acknowledge that there is indeed genuine european added value in bringing universities, research centres and clusters, industry, smes and other legal entities together to cooperate and participate in research projects around defined priorities within a unique management framework on a multiannual basis. fp7 will of course have to be implemented in synergy with other community policies such as the cohesion policy and the structural funds that, to a certain extent, also support research and development. with the implementation of fp7, there will be a genuine leverage effect on the objectives of other community policies such as growth, employment and competitiveness. it will be ensured that knowledge, capacity and innovative technologies will be known, transferred, assimilated and used by businesses around the whole union.
mr. president, i have to ask you... we all know the importance of the fight against aids, and we should also know the responsibility of it. i attribute this to the fact that so many amendments to my opinion last week have been tabled. last year, nearly 40 million people were infected with aids, and the disease has indeed reached every corner of the world. it's spread for a variety of reasons. it is mainly ignorance, but it is also a factor of drug use or the lack of preparedness of the health systems of some countries. my own country has been screening for 20 years, and that's why the situation is not bad, but the problems are just as noticeable. the virus is 90% sexually transmitted, 10% drug-induced. two more experiences: untreated stis increase the risk of aids by several orders of magnitude. people with aids and hiv have a much harder time getting proper medical care, if they can get it at all. the importance of prevention, including information, cannot be overemphasized. this is especially important among high-impact social groups and high school students. we need action. we must also help countries outside the union, especially in the nearby regions. for example, in neighboring areas, the number of diagnosed infections is constantly increasing. it's in all of our interests to act together. we need an integrated approach, as the commissioner said, and action. they're partners in this.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – i will speak on this item, as our chairman, mr sifunakis, has other duties today. however, we and every member of the pse working party in the committee on culture and education agree on the subject’s importance. the year 2007 will be the european year of equal opportunities, as part of which we must also give attention to disability in education and culture programmes. the new digital technologies, especially relating to the media, can provide equal opportunities for the disabled. it is crucial to use these tools for the advantage of disabled people. the european union has important multiannual cultural programmes between 2007 and 2013. our group wants to increase the involvement of people with disabilities in these programmes. some weeks ago, i welcomed a group of visitors that included some disabled people. we, members of this european parliament, can also act at a personal level. our possibilities may be modest, but we can invite more disabled visitors to parliament.
the situation of people with disabilities in europe today is extremely difficult, with multiple forms of discrimination. in most places, even basic transportation has not been provided for their movement, much less their social integration. it's important to realize that living independently doesn't just mean being a member of society, it means being a member of society just like everyone else. this is something that all policy-makers and decision-makers should pay attention to. people with disabilities represent 10% of the european population, so their integration and well-being are not just a social issue, but a mutual interest, since creating jobs for them and involving them in lifelong learning and training not only contributes to improving their living conditions, but also to the development of the european economy. the approach to the question is also problematic. it is not just because of the inadequacy of the statistical data. the eu has a long-standing commitment to the promotion of equal opportunities for women and men in all areas of society, including the labour market, and to the promotion of equal opportunities for women and men. i did. as in many other areas, women with disabilities are often more disadvantaged than men with disabilities and more likely to be victims of poverty and social exclusion, and this needs to be addressed through a wide range of programmes and measures.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – madam president, in olden times young people learned their professions in the workshops of older masters. in hungary, before the world wars and the iron curtain, many young people went to western europe for some years to extend their vocational training by working in the workshops of foreign masters. in this way, they learned both their profession and one or two foreign languages. we should not invent new things, we should just remember the old traditions. of course, times have changed and the state has an important role in vocational training. however, as with the individual masters or guilds in the old times, small and medium-sized companies should be involved in providing practical experience for students. our projects in the field of vocational training are rather modest. we must provide more financial resources for programmes that provide foreign experience and possibly the exchange of students. vocational training should also provide language courses, including business technology phrases. it is nice to learn the hamlet monologues by heart, but carpenters or computer operators should know their professional terms in foreign languages as well.
rapporteur. – mr president, on 12 october, when parliament last voted on the report on the regulation establishing a european union agency for fundamental rights, we asked for it to be referred back to committee under rule 53(2). since then, the council and the commission have decided to add political declarations to complement the legal document. this was accepted by parliament in a round of trialogue discussions. i would therefore ask the house to vote in favour in the final vote on these issues and not block the process any more.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to go. my report would have extended the fundamental rights agency's jurisdiction to the third pillar. i ask my colleagues to support this motion unchanged, to vote in favour of parliament's original proposal. for my part, i have noted that the political declaration contains this extension to a somewhat limited extent.
mr president, i am the shadow rapporteur for the pse group. yesterday we had a vote based on information regarding amendments 22 and 23. we knew that the different fusion associations held different views. i should therefore like to tell my group that we have received a letter from the fusion association stating it is unanimously in favour of the way in which we voted in committee. therefore, i should like to ask colleagues to change their vote on article 2(2) and vote against those amendments.
mr president, first of all i would like to pay tribute to mr sacconi, who did his utmost to come up with this good legislation. i started following the reach debate as an observer three years ago. it is more than encouraging to see that there has been an acceptable outcome to this long process. coming from a new member state, i am satisfied to see that my amendments have been built into the text. the hungarian-british initiative should also be mentioned here as a relative success for my compatriots. hopefully, parliament and the council will approve the final version in december, but it is not the end of the process. in seven years’ time the state of the legislation will be reviewed. it will be a good opportunity to involve the substances in the 1-10 tonne range in the chemical safety report in order to ensure the safe use of such substances, as i and other socialist colleagues proposed earlier.
after three years of negotiations, we have come to a final verdict on the bill that has become known as reach. there are a number of options for wednesday's vote. one: we can support the council's common position. two, we can reject the whole proposal. three: we can accept the compromise package and create reach. the first and most important question is whether new legislation is needed at all, or whether existing legislation is sufficient to address our environmental, health and animal health concerns and provide access to the desired amount of information. in other words, do we need new legislation to learn more about the 30,000 chemicals that surround us every day? the answer is clearly yes. we need a new, comprehensive regulation to enable the long-delayed, large-scale chemical review to take place. the other important question is, is the compromise good enough? whether better solutions were found than the text supported at first reading or whether the six 'trialogues' were only a dilution and further weakening of the regulation. so, let's go back to the first reading. what were your most important goals? we wanted a stronger and tougher replacement, and we got it. we wanted to tighten up manufacturers' liability, and we got it. we wanted to reduce animal testing, and we did. we wanted a more rigorous, but functional registration, and we got it. we wanted the osor principle to be applied and we wanted to support smes, and we have achieved that. so, overall, the compromise package is much better than what was supported in the first reading, and we have succeeded in fighting for an even stronger and even stricter reach. ladies and gentlemen, that is why the conclusion must be that we support the compromise.
let me congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have helped and improved his work over the years with their questions and support. i would like to emphasize that for us, the representatives of the eastern european countries, this is a bill in which our own proposals have appeared in two very important places in the council debate, which we have also managed to incorporate into parliament. one is the maltese-slovenian proposal, the other is the hungarian-british one, the so-called osor initiative. this alone would save some huf 10 billion for hungarian smes alone. this also shows that the cost-efficiency of small businesses has been aligned with health and environmental objectives. so i would like to welcome this compromise. as a member of the committee on the internal market, i am particularly pleased that the obligation to inform consumers has finally been incorporated in the compromise proposal. i think this will be very important for all involved, because in this case we can evaluate the results of reach. i sincerely hope that all the work we've done in the legislative process will not be compromised in the implementation process. i'm happy for you.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. when i entered the european parliament two and a half years ago, i admit i was afraid that my colleagues and i would be part of a big carnival of fairies, but the truth is that we would have little say in the decisions affecting half a billion european citizens. well, here i am, yesterday we were playing the role of the new chemical law, and today i can be an active part of the birth of another child of great promise, the law for the protection of groundwater. my colleague, christa klaß, whom i thank for her dedicated work, and i have spoken at length about the importance and significance of this legislation. that the water we drink, without which life on earth is impossible, cannot be polluted. it is not that anyone has challenged the principle, but when it comes to the details, the actual cooperation between member states, nitrate limits, protection zones, the interests of individual countries have come to take precedence over the interests of the community. but in the end, common sense prevailed, and an agreement was made. the successful 'trialogues' will result in a much higher level of water quality security for all european citizens, whether or not their country shares a common groundwater pool with another country. it is now up to the member states to decide how to implement this legislation, how to integrate the protection of groundwater into their rural development policy, how to encourage the adaptation of agricultural practices to this new directive. i congratulate christa klaß, the commission and the council on this water protection legislation of european significance.
madam president, i would like to join those who congratulated mrs. hieronymi on her excellent work. the new member states have specific problems in the media market, and i am very confident that this acceptable compromise that has been reached will lead to a more unified media market structure in the new member states and to greater competition in these new countries as well. the media system and media market in many of the new member states have developed through inorganic development, deriving largely from media and infrastructure that were under party control during the years of dictatorship. in these countries, including my country, hungary, media wars have been fought over the monopolies that have been created, and certain infrastructural and regulatory conditions for the pluralism of opinion have not been met. that's why i think it's important, and i hope that it will help you with that. i too, as an elected representative, consider it essential that our fundamental values, such as the protection of minors, human rights, cultural and linguistic diversity and minorities, be given a prominent place in these regulations, since they are not only our common values but also the common founding documents of europe. to this end, however, unnecessary obstacles to the development of the european media market should not be imposed. that is why i am confident that the compromise reached will indeed ensure that europe can compete with the rest of the world. thank you for your work and i wish you every success in implementing this proposal.
the eu budget for 2007 was prepared seemingly without any sharp clashes, although there was no agreement in july on the financial regulation, for example. without a valid code of conduct, the budget cannot function. parliament will therefore not even sign it if the new financial regulation does not enter into force. in the 2007 budget, parliament increased payments compared to the council, in return for which expenditure does not exceed 1% of the union's gni. why didn't we fight harder? in 2007, a new financial framework will come into force, the various programmes will be relaunched and the payment needs will therefore be low. and it just emerged that six billion euros of the hard-won money raised last year had not been used by the member states. this year, parliament introduced the value for money analysis, proving that the union is putting money to good use. unfortunately, solidarity between member states is declining year by year, and the contributors are citing the difficulties of their national budgets and concealing the benefits of opening up the market. we should not cut the budget, but where merger brings added value, we should spend more. research and development, alongside cohesion, is the only way to win in global competition. but for the european union to grow to its full potential, the will of parliament is not enough: it would require statesmen to lead the member states, not politicians who live for the moment.
we are all aware that there are differences of opinion on the assessment of globalisation between political groups, but also within european society. although the public is now mainly aware of the processes of european delocalisation, we must not forget that europe has been the main beneficiary of globalisation in the last century. in view of all this, the establishment of this fund can be agreed in principle. however, the draft text raised serious concerns in several respects. it would not be appropriate for intervention in european funds to serve only to conceal a lack of competitiveness, nor would it be appropriate for the way in which the criteria for the funds are defined to put the old and the new member states in opposition to each other. as regards the first question, it is necessary to provide opportunities for maintaining or improving competitiveness within a european framework. here the legislative task is a serious one, and i would mention in particular the efforts to create the internal market. the globalisation fund cannot therefore exempt european companies from the very tasks which enable them to survive and even to increase their revenues by employing eu workers in european establishments. the other problem is related to this. i would like to emphasise that our task is not to create difficulties between the old and new member states, as is the case with the free movement of labour, but to achieve together the economic competitiveness of the union. the award criteria system should therefore be fair and equitable for all member states. the original proposal, thanks to roselyn bachelot, has been improved to its present form, making it acceptable, even if it is mostly symbolic.
the union remains committed to removing structural barriers to trade liberalisation and open markets. to increase employment and raise the standard of living of our citizens, we must reap the benefits of globalisation rather than suffer the disadvantages. while globalisation has brought positive developments at european level, it has occasionally caused serious problems that have led to severe economic and social trauma in certain regions. the benefits of globalisation are shared by the whole community, but the problems that arise as negative effects are at the local level. it is the community's task to provide adequate and effective support for the reintegration of workers into the labour market. the duty of solidarity also dictates this. the need for rapid and effective assistance in these areas is such that i welcome this new fund in addition to the existing funds. but for this programme to be a cure, it would require a budget, and we should not be hampered by an unrealistically high co-financing obligation, nor should we be unlucky to exclude the little ones from this possibility of recovery.
on behalf of the pse group. equality between women and men is one of the cornerstones of the construction of modern europe. after a long struggle, the european institution for social and gender equality is on the verge of being realised. i would like to thank my colleagues gröner and sartori for their work and congratulate them on the draft recommendation, which reflects the best available results at the moment and is supported by the commission and the council. the independence of the institute, which is essential for proper professional work, has been achieved, as has the expert forum which will help the director in his work. the budgetary framework for the operation is also ensured, as is the transparency of the management. the appointment of the director remains the responsibility of the commission and the management board, but i would stress that the director must appear before a committee of the european parliament. this strengthens the role of parliament. i am very pleased that there will finally be a european-level institution that continuously analyses the problem of social and gender equality and collects data systematically. i am confident that it will develop valuable methodological tools for equal opportunities policy, provide advice to the other community institutions and the member states, and contribute to the implementation of community policy. i welcome the fact that the institute has chosen a new member state as its seat. for me, it was really important in choosing the headquarters that it be placed where it would have a proper environment. we can be confident that this will happen in lithuania, because the lithuanian government has demonstrated its commitment by supplementing the €50 million available from community funds for 7 years. by opening the institute, we have taken an important step in the field of equal opportunities between men and women. its importance will be borne out by time, but its relevance is reinforced by the fact that 2007 will be the european year of equal opportunities. we've taken the necessary steps, the institution is ready to go. it's our job to make sure that his activities are meaningful.
the legislation before us is excellent, and i congratulate the authors. i would like to congratulate matthias groote, anja weisgerber and martin callanan on behalf of the epp. this proposal creates a delicate and difficult compromise between our transport needs, our technical and economic possibilities and our growing environmental problems. the eu is leading the way in regulating low-emission car engines, but life seems to be lagging far behind. for years, manufacturers have been showcasing their concept cars, whether they're electric, hydrogen or biofuel powered, but these designs have been hidden away in showrooms. question is, why? the same reason we're talking about euro 5 and euro 6 cars here, and we're driving not just euro 4 cars, but mostly euro 2 and euro 3 cars. this is because member states do not provide sufficient incentives for new technology, the spread of alternative fuels or the modernisation of old, obsolete vehicles. they say there's no equipment? of course you are. lower taxes could encourage the purchase of more advanced technologies, more money for research and development, more money for pilot projects, and we could greatly reduce the cost of adopting new technologies. awareness and education campaigns and the provision of various parking and transport benefits can greatly encourage the switch to technology. i believe that this is the way to achieve the lisbon objectives. it's the only way to solve the growing air pollution problems in our cities on our own.
mr president, sometimes it is worth asking simple, even simplistic, questions: why enlarge the european union at all? the simple answer is: in order to enlarge the zone of democracy and stability that europe has created. however, the matter is more complex than appears at first sight. democracy is not static, but demands constant improvement with the aim of empowering the people. this is what the deepening of integration is fundamentally about. it is in this context that enlargement raises a particular problem, and one that has to be tackled. the european union insists that future member states arrive with fully functioning democratic systems – as is proper – yet this overlooks the changes that enlargement brings in its wake within the eu itself. the problem is this: the entry of new member states involves not just the states but the new citizens who are added through accession. therefore, the enlargement of the european union simultaneously means the enlargement of the european demos, the citizens of europe. their voice is seldom heard in the enlargement debate, yet leaving out the citizens threatens to exacerbate the democratic deficit. an eu beset by a democratic deficit cannot be fully effective in extending the zone of democracy to future member states. on the contrary, it could even result in exporting the democratic deficit. that would be completely counterproductive. enlargement must take the wishes of the citizens of europe into account when it comes to their own enlargement, and not take their voice for granted. failure to do so would undermine the goal of extending europe’s zone of democracy and stability.
in today's debate, almost everyone agreed that enlargement is a success story. if that is the case, then we must continue to deliver on our commitments, because europe is in dire need of success. reform of the decision-making process, debate on the capacity for integration must not slow down the enlargement process, must not serve as an excuse to hold back enlargement. croatia must be judged on its own merits. the negotiations with turkey must continue, but turkey must also act in good faith and meet the conditions. we must clearly define the conditions for macedonia to enter into negotiations. potential candidates should be guaranteed the conditions of entry in the medium term if they are willing to fulfil the conditions. the european union must provide more resources, more money and clearer, more easily accessible conditions for pre-accession funds, otherwise we will not be able to prove our intention to continue enlargement.
mr president, the european neighbourhood policy and the presence of hungarian minorities make hungary the country most interested in future enlargement of the union: croatia, serbia, other countries of the western balkans. nevertheless, the number one task at the moment is to deepen, to implement profound economic and institutional reforms, without, however, closing the door to enlargement. it is regrettable that, in the light of the history of the european community, this enlargement has not been preceded by a deepening of the economic and institutional dimension: an enlarged europe cannot be created with relatively fewer resources and without a constitutional treaty! the 2004 enlargement has had a positive and beneficial outcome for the old and new member states. it's a win-win situation. the ten new member states have been integrated without problems, without economic turbulence, without social dumping, without migration flows. after enlargement, the european union was able to adopt the services directive, reach, the financial perspective and it will enlarge the schengen system. but, ladies and gentlemen, what is needed is a european campaign because the real costs of enlargement are not known in the western countries and the new member states have become scapegoats for the internal problems of the western countries.
on behalf of my colleague, pál schmitt, president of the croatian delegation, i would like to congratulate my colleagues brock and stubb on their excellent and realistic reports. we hungarians are pleased that the reports confirm the copenhagen principle that each country wishing to join should proceed with accession negotiations on its own merits. accordingly, in the case of croatia, which is currently negotiating, we can say with confidence that, according to the copenhagen criteria, we will welcome them as new members of the club in this cycle. the accession of croatia will, in effect, bring the fifth enlargement round to a close, the central european part. croatia is bound to this circle mainly through slovenia, austria and hungary, its level of development, its legal and institutional culture and its millennial heritage. on the other hand, croatia can also serve as a good example for countries in the western balkans wishing to start enlarging the union. fortunately, given its size and development, croatia is not a problem for inclusion in the current community policies, the internal market and the budget. as regards the institutional conditions for their accession, they can be met by amending the treaty of nice, which, in the absence of a constitution, would have to be complied with in any event by reason of accession. however, the specific merit and the continuation of enlargement do require a more serious examination, both in the western balkans and in the union. this is also the case in the neighbouring country of serbia, where the northern province of vojvodina can also play a bridge role, precisely because of its western roots. this bridge role could be maintained if serbia seeks to preserve it, rather than continue the current eradication of the indigenous culture of the peoples of the eu. in the latter case, we will no longer be talking about a european union based on our own cultural values, but about a byzantine union.
following the reaffirmation of the commitment to full implementation of the thessaloniki agenda and of the intention to honour the existing commitments made to the candidate and potential candidate countries with regard to future enlargement, we still have to ensure that the union is able to function. by integrating new member states, the union has to face the consequent political, financial and institutional challenges it implies. the nice treaty does not provide an adequate basis for further enlargements, whereas the constitution offers solutions to most of the reforms needed and constitutes a tangible expression of the deepening-enlargement relationship. this is why it is necessary to settle the constitutional settlement before 2009 ep elections. reforms are necessary before any further enlargement takes place. the enlargement process is a process that spreads democracy and wealth further across the european continent and beyond. we therefore bear a responsibility towards our neighbourhood and particularly towards candidate and potential candidate countries. finally, while addressing the question of the union's 'absorption capacity', we share the point of view of the rapporteur who prefers the positive concept of 'integration capacity'.
in writing. i would like to highlight the amendment proposed by parliament which emphasises the cultural and educational aspects of the renewed lisbon strategy and the need for information on equal opportunities and non-discrimination within the european union. in this context, i would like to recall a phenomenon which highlights the urgent importance of intercultural dialogue: the situation of immigrants, and in particular of immigrant women. according to eurostat, the proportion of women among immigrants is increasing steadily. they now account for about 54 percent of all immigrants. the problem is compounded by the fact that unemployment is very high among them. their vulnerability is further exacerbated by the fact that a significant proportion of immigrants live on the margins of society and have extremely limited access to public, political and economic life. within migrants, female immigrants are also victims of double discrimination on the basis of gender and ethnicity. the main problems facing immigrants, unemployment, exclusion from education and legal uncertainty, affect women and children the most. tragically, each year some five thousand immigrant women are victims of mental or physical violence, forced marriage, female genital mutilation, and honor crimes. i think it is particularly significant that the european commission has designated 2007 as the european year for equal opportunities and 2008 as the year of intercultural dialogue. and i hope that these programs will give us an opportunity to address all of these problems and, if possible, to correct them. that is why i have announced in hungary, together with the minister for social affairs and labour, our series of programmes relating to the 2007 year of equal opportunities.
on behalf of the pse group. as a co-rapporteur, i would like to particularly welcome the report by mr seppänen on the programme of support for the safety of nuclear power stations in third countries. europe has always been a global leader in nuclear safety, and this programme will help us to do so for the next seven years. nuclear safety is a human factor. the design, construction, operation, maintenance, supervision, transport or dismantling are clearly human tasks requiring the right number of people, the right skills and equipment. the programme for the post-soviet states, the immediate eastern neighbours of the union, is therefore of paramount importance for our own energy supply, including our own security. at the same time, it helps european companies, researchers and universities, including hungarian ones, with their own nuclear safety, long history and experience, competitive expertise, to promising external markets. i ask the council, which decides on the programme, and the european commission, which is the executive, to do this as efficiently as possible. i would also like to congratulate the other two rapporteurs and, in particular, to highlight the fact that the eluned morgan report makes it clear that energy should not be about the industries that work in the energy sector in the first place, but about the people they reach, the users. a central element of europe's energy strategy is to ensure a decent standard of living for europe's citizens and to provide access to affordable, secure energy, which is essential for competitive operations. i would like to congratulate you in particular on the fact that you have managed to find a balance between the added value of the internal market, global challenges and subsidiarity in the member states. i congratulate the rapporteurs on their day and hope, commissioner, that we will have the opportunity to implement all of them next year.
the one-year anniversary of the russian-ukrainian gas dispute and the minor disruption of gas supplies in russia, which has brought europe to its energy vulnerability and the fragility of its energy security, is fast approaching. in the eleven months since then, the institutions of the european union have responded to the event with the speed that could be expected of them. in the green paper parliamentary debate published by the commission in march, i summarised the factors that are key to preventing a similar eventuality in three points:1. a common european energy policy is needed to give our suppliers, including russia, which is openly using its energy position as a political tool, a unified voice at international level. the second. in order to establish a common european energy policy on a sound basis, we must also create the new community legal framework necessary for this. the eu's neighbourhood policy should also be guided by the south east european extension of the energy community treaty. the third. finally, i would like to emphasise that europe must build new infrastructure alongside the new legal framework. the implementation of diversification, which is a guarantee of security of supply, requires the construction of new gas pipelines, gas storage and lng terminals and interconnections. the nabucco pipeline would diversify both the source of supply and the transit route. the future energy mix should include a greater emphasis on alternative energy sources and a reassessment of the role of nuclear energy. the vulnerability of european consumers is growing. it is our shared responsibility to create the supply and through that the security of our citizens.
he's a writer. parliamentary elections were held in fiji in may. the european union sent an election observation mission to these elections. i have the honour of leading this election observation mission. i feel a responsibility to assure you that the elections were fair, met international standards and faithfully reflected the will of the fijian electorate. the only factor that was already overshadowing the election campaign was the unconstitutional or unconstitutional statements made by commander-in-chief bainimarama. he was already threatening a coup, i spoke to him myself, i very strongly warned him that he was doing this to undermine the credibility of democracy. in september, the last time i was in fiji, it seemed like the situation had consolidated. the two largest parties formed a constitutional or constitutionally-conform coalition under prime minister qarase and in general, the mood and tensions seemed to have calmed down. it is extremely regrettable that on december 5th, the military overthrew the democratic government, blocked the freedom of the press, expelled people from the country, detained those who protested, and today there is a noticeably strong protest in the country, a peaceful, bloodless protest that is reaching a wider circle. it is unfortunate that the leadership of the second largest opposition party, the labour party, is not clearly bound by the coup. we must demand clearly that the military immediately and unconditionally hand over power to the democratically elected leadership and we must use the means at our disposal, sanctions, to make it clear that what is happening in fiji is unacceptable to us.
