on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, as one of the 26 meps who attended the world trade talks i would agree with the commissioner that there was some success – it was not a complete failure. but i must say from my understanding of what happened in hong kong that enormous pressure was exerted on the european model of agriculture at those talks, all in the name of helping developing countries. as i said in hong kong and as i said in this house previously, my stance has been that this is a false impression. a false impression is being created that developing countries would benefit from more access to the eu markets. nothing could be further from the truth, indeed the least developed countries have very little to gain from such a gesture. the real winners would be the beef barons of south america, if we were to allow the european farmers to be sold out. in the streets of hong kong we saw korean farmers fighting for their livelihoods, small korean farmers threatened by transnational grain corporations which are bargaining under the guise of endeavouring to help developing countries. in europe we cannot allow our food supply to be outsourced. treating agriculture and food as ordinary products on a production line threatens our very food security. it is clear that the wto talks cannot succeed as long as it insists on playing russian roulette with our food supplies and with the livelihood of our small and medium farmers, because they are the ones at risk, not the agricultural exports, commissioner. perhaps it is time to exclude agriculture altogether from the wto because, as you said yourself, it amounts to only 5% of world trade. why should 5% prevent the 95% progress that could be made? this should be rethought in the interests of the overall talks, because i believe agriculture will always be a problem.
member of the commission. in fact, the european environment agency, in a report submitted two months ago, has noted and emphasized that the environmental priorities for the mediterranean region include drought, the prevention and management of drought and water scarcity, which particularly affected countries such as portugal and spain this year. as regards the drought in portugal and spain, the european union cohesion fund has allocated resources to adapt and support measures which it has long funded to deal with similar weather phenomena. as for long-term measures, the european union will provide spain with more than €1.3 billion to support the new spanish water management and use plan. in future, special attention will be given to measures to prevent and manage drought and water scarcity. i should also point out that the environment agency has underlined in its report the importance of other emerging threats to the mediterranean region, in particular to ecosystems, arising from changes in temperature and rainfall in the region, which have various consequences.
member of the commission. renewable energy is one of our priorities at the moment. we have a green paper on renewable energy, which we are trying to promote by various means. we also have targets for the european union for 2002 and 2020. we have not succeeded yet, but we hope to achieve those targets through the various means and measures we are proposing. to this effect, we have the second phase of the european climate change programme, which promotes renewable energy sources, and we are proposing a series of measures in support of such energy sources. at the same time, the commission is currently discussing a strategy for biofuels, which provide a means not only of securing energy resources within the european union, but also of answering the problems that will be created for farmers by the new agricultural policy, as well as limiting greenhouse gases and dealing with other environmental problems.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. the commission attaches great importance to the european parliament's resolution on the implementation of directive 96/71 (ec) on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services in the member states. this resolution was discussed with the social partners in all sectors, who were asked to provide further information by means of a comprehensive questionnaire. a comprehensive questionnaire was also sent to the member states' administrations in view of the follow-up to the european parliament resolution. the commission supported a research project by the european federation of construction and woodworking workers on the practical implications of the posting of workers directive and a follow-up conference. these measures led to the drafting of the second report on the implementation of directive 96/71 (ec) which covers the matters set out in the parliament's resolution. this draft report is now being finalised by the commission services and will be adopted shortly. as regards the practical functioning of the directive and the improvement of cooperation on the provision of information, the commission played an active role in cooperation with a group of experts from the member states. the work of the group has led, inter alia, to the development of a code of conduct related to the principles of cooperation and a multilingual form for informal exchange of information, aimed at facilitating communication between liaison offices and monitoring bodies. in addition, a special website called 'posting of workers' has been created, which contains essential information in three languages on the legal framework governing the posting of workers and links to related texts and websites of the member states on the subject of posting of workers. the list of liaison offices and monitoring bodies was also made publicly available on this site, allowing authorities and individuals to find out about the relevant contact points in the different member states. i have been informed that the committee on employment and social affairs has decided to draw up, on its own initiative, a report on the consequences of directive 96/71 (ec) on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. a hearing on this report will be held on 26 january 2006. i am very interested in the outcome of this hearing and would welcome the opportunity to work with parliament on this important matter.
thank you for your reply, commissioner špidla. i should like some clarification on whether the report, which you indicate as being finalised, is the report dated 15 november 2005 that has already been circulated in draft form to the social partners. if so, would you undertake to circulate this report to the members of the european parliament, in particular to the committee on employment and social affairs? would you not agree that the experience to date of the posting of workers directive indicates that amendments are required in order to clarify the application of that directive to the delivery of services from third countries, such as turkey, and also from some other member states? i am thinking in particular of the vaxholm-laval case, which is clearly a challenge in my view to the operation of the directive. finally, could you indicate what statistics you have with regard to the number of posted workers and labour inspectorates in the various member states and the effectiveness of those inspectors?
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. as regards the report to which the honourable member refers, i must say that it is not clear to me from the way he quoted it what report it is. i'll check the quote and then i'll be able to answer the question more accurately. as regards the question of access from third countries. this line is european law and concerns the member states. if you want to specify any modifications in relation to third countries, i am of course available.
member of the commission. at the time of its discussion and adoption, the directive did not contain any opt-out of any member state scheme. it is therefore a universal directive, which may be difficult to interpret at times, i can imagine, but it is a directive which covers the whole concept of the european union and all types of industrial relations. as for the basic approach, i have to say that as you know, the laval case is pending before the european court of justice, and therefore it would not be appropriate for me to take specific positions on the matter. in general, the commission's observations should not, in principle, call into question the social model of a member state as such, but should always defend the view that the economic freedoms enshrined in the treaty can be combined with different social models. that is, the directive is designed to provide, from the outset, protection for posted workers at the level applicable in the member state concerned, and as i have already said, in some cases it can be difficult to interpret, but that is the principle of the directive and it applies to all member states.
commissioner, could you just clarify for me, in your comments regarding the vaxholm case, that you are not in a position to comment? is the commission not, in fact, permitted and indeed obliged to make a submission to the european court of justice with regard to its view on the issues at stake in that case? has it not in fact been asked by the court to make such a submission?
i am happy to say that it is not the only consideration, because lots of us use the post and would like it to be delivered each day rather than just once a week. but there is also uncertainty in terms of the actual post offices that will be distributed throughout rural ireland as well as rural europe. can the commissioner comment on what the commission is thinking in relation to those services – other than the post – that are offered, and when a decision might be made by the commission so that there will be more clarity?
mr president, they say it is better to give a fishing rod than a fish. if we are going to shut down sugar production in ireland and in the eu, we can and must properly compensate the farmers and producers, even if just to salve our own conscience. but are we crazy? why are we shutting down sugar production when we desperately need to find alternatives to petroleum fuels? why are we paying to have empty fields and rusting equipment when we need sugar production more than ever? sugar has other uses besides sweets. on the one hand, we are warning of the disappearance of oil and promoting alternatives; on the other hand, sugar – one of the viable alternatives – has been made to disappear. one hand does not seem to know what the other is doing. how can we accomplish anything? while we are planning our own compensation package, let us remember third countries like mauritius, which are being devastated by our sugar reforms.
mr president, i thank mr fruteau, not only for his work to date, but also for sticking with this marathon session; and i also thank the commission. i think we should all get a clap on the back. rather than repeat some of the comments made about these reforms, i just want to say that i have some concern about the severity of the price cut. i have urged this before, as an alternative to using a quota cut as a mechanism to control supply. i have particular questions for the commission. perhaps the commissioner could give me an answer. in relation to the levy to be deducted from processors, could the commission say whether, if a country – and i am speaking of ireland – grows beet in 2006, the company has to contribute to the restructuring levy this year, should it intend to stop production in 2007? it is a crucial issue and it will decide whether or not we grow beet this year – perhaps the last season for beet growing in ireland. my second question relates to a comment the commissioner made earlier in the debate when she said that the 10% which is being set aside under the restructuring scheme for growers could be increased by member states in particular circumstances. perhaps the commissioner might outline what those circumstances might be. without using all of my time, because we may all be tired and perhaps emotional, i shall just say, with regard to the developing world – and i share the concerns of others here in the house – that in reforming sugar we have upset the developing world, because we are offering it access to our markets at much reduced prices. what it wants is access at high prices, because that is the only way that it can grow and prosper. those who have called for this to happen should think about what they have now succeeded in achieving. lastly, i hope the reforms do what the commissioner says they will do: give us a competitive sugar industry. alas, i think that for ireland it will mean that we will have no industry at all.
mr president, the århus convention, signed by all 25 member states, gives the public rights in the three areas of accessing environmental information, participating in environmental decision-making and accessing justice in environmental matters. this regulation before us has the objective of applying these rights against the eu institutions: parliament, the council, the commission, the ecj, the european investment bank, et al. it is essential that individuals who are directly affected by breaches of environmental law have a means of redress, whether through an appeal body, the ombudsman or, if necessary, through the courts. this does not mean, however, drafting a lawyers’ charter, which is what we are in danger of doing. while there are many excellent ngos and pressure groups, which bring to our attention legitimate concerns on environmental matters and act as watchdogs holding the institutions to account on our behalf, i would urge caution in allowing any self-legitimising group to put an added burden on the institutions and clog up an already overburdened justice system. while i am opposed to amendments 2, 7 and 12, my biggest problem is with amendment 26, which proposes that all ngos, regardless of the legitimacy of their interests or the transparency of their constitutions, should be granted the right of unfettered instigation of court proceedings against community institutions for their administrative acts or omissions, such as in enforcing the implementation of eu environmental law. in some countries, an ngo can be formed with a membership of less than five people. such a body is not democratically accountable by any definition, but these amendments would allow them to challenge the commission without providing evidence of how or by whom they are funded or for what purpose. it is a long-established principle of eu law – built up over many years of case law and underpinned by article 230(4) of the ec treaty – that citizens need to have a direct and individual concern in order to have a standing in the ecj. bypassing the treaty with secondary legislation such as the amendments to this regulation makes a mockery of the idea that it is the victim of infringements of the law rather than interested observers – whose motivation and support base may not always be clear – who should be able to seek a remedy. if the european parliament wishes to extend the internal or judicial review process, it should do so through an amendment to the treaty in the first instance. as a politician, democratically accountable to my electorate, i am also not prepared to delegate my responsibility to unelected, unaccountable bodies.
in writing. i welcome the decision of the european parliament's conference of presidents to appoint 22 meps to a committee of inquiry charged with investigating the case of citizens, as many as 6 500 of whom are irish, who were robbed of their savings due to the crisis at insurance company equitable life. i support the petition which equitable life investors have submitted to the european parliament's petitions committee. it is entirely right that their case will now be investigated fully by a european parliament committee of inquiry. the irish government should now appoint an investigator who will represent irish citizens' interests in this matter and work with the european parliament's committee of inquiry.
in writing. in the decision to establish a european parliament committee of inquiry to investigate claims of secret cia prisons and the torture of prisoners on eu soil or in countries seeking eu membership, if eu member states or candidate countries had been involved, actively or passively, in running 'extra-judicial prisons', there would have been violations of the charter of fundamental rights. it is important that we get to the root of the matter. we must investigate without prejudice but without being blind to the possibilities. we want to know the truth, nothing more than the truth. if we do this, then we are genuinely battling against terrorism but also against torture.
in writing. i very much welcome the draft regulation to apply the provisions of the århus convention to ec institutions and bodies. citizens have a legitimate right to information and environmental justice, including from the ec. in particular, i believe the definition of 'environmental information' set out in the proposed regulation should include information about the state of progress of proceedings against member states for infringing ec law. all too often, the only way eu citizens can find out about the failure of their member states to respect the commitments they have freely entered into is by monitoring commission press releases. this is not sufficient and has to be put on a firmer footing. lastly, i regret the failure of the council to reach agreement on the related draft directive on access to justice, as endorsed by the ep with amendments on 31 march 2004, and i urge the council and the commission to redouble their efforts on this particular initiative.
in writing. with regard to the commission text on the table, i share the concerns of many irish stakeholders who made submissions to the irish government, and which are also shared by many fellow member states. the principal concern is that the commission is proposing legal requirements which could adversely impact on the essential commercial and trading remit of the major ports covered by the proposed directive. therefore, the workability of the commission proposal for mandatory licensing of all internal port activities is questionable. as regards irish seaports, governmental research (sea ports high level review) has shown there to be strong competition in the market for services internal to ports. indeed, the landlord model is working to great effect in major ports where it is the common standard that internal services are provided on a competitive basis, with no single dominant operator. this has been important in facilitating private sector involvement in port service provision. the research also highlighted high levels of competition on and between irish sea routes. as an island, enhanced competition between ports is also vital, but future attempts at achieving european port policy must have the support of the port sector.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, first i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work and what they have tried to achieve with this report. secondly, and most importantly of all, i would like to thank the austrian presidency for having the political courage to take this issue out of the esoteric area and put it back on the political agenda. one of the most important issues we have to look at – and it follows on from what mr bonde has just been saying – is: when is a ‘no’ really a ‘no’? when is it that one country can stop every other country from moving forward? when is it that two countries can prevent other countries from moving forward? the uniqueness of what the european union has been about is that it has striven to find common ground between very different and varying interests. just because we have hit a barrier with regard to progress in constitutional change and treaty change aiming at a more efficient and effective way of decision-making, does that mean that we have to stick our heads in the sand, as some of my colleagues would say? the ostrich, whilst it may stick its head in the sand at some stage, is also the fastest runner on the ground. we have to learn very quickly how to become fast runners to deal with the concerns that people have. those concerns are not just related to the model of the european union. many of those who voted ‘no’ in france or holland voted that way because of domestic political reasons. they also voted out of fear. as we discovered in ireland some years ago, there was an irrational fear in some people when they voted ‘no’, a fear of the huge influx of immigrants taking all our jobs, stealing our social welfare and ruining our country. the reality was totally different: integration is possible; common sense and calmness is possible, but most importantly of all, this is true not just within this insular house and not just within national parliaments. until such time as we convince the citizens and allow them ownership of the european union project, only then and truly then can we say that we have a citizens’ europe that rightfully belongs to them.
may i begin by welcoming minister winkler on his first official occasion at parliament, wishing him and his government colleagues well during their term of presidency, and thanking him for his comprehensive reply. i welcome the outcome of the montreal negotiations, which were relatively successful in the end. however, i would like to address a question to both the council and the commission, in relation to the decision which was made in sydney on 12 january 2006 by the ap6 countries, namely, china, india, south korea, japan, the united states and australia, when they decided that they represent 45% of the world’s population and account for almost half of the greenhouse gas emissions. i wonder, because they are going it alone and there is no mandatory mechanism whereby they must adhere to certain principles, how we will provide leadership in the council and the commission to deal with that.
mr president, this period is an important opportunity for the palestinian and israeli peoples. i expect the elections next week will result in hamas being elected and represented. europe must decide how to deal with them. we cannot exclude them, and indeed the israeli government must be encouraged to accept the will of the palestinian people in respect of who they select as their representatives, no matter how difficult that may be for them – and i quite understand that it will be difficult. we have to engage with hamas after the elections on a conditional basis to encourage complete abandonment of violent means in pursuit of its political objectives. the israeli government must come to realise that missiles, demolitions, apartheid walls and assassinations will not guarantee or bring it sustainable peace. political engagement with the enemy is necessary, otherwise there will be no peace. most of all, israel’s current government must realise that a sustainable peace is not possible without a sustainable palestinian state. a ‘swiss cheese’ palestinian state on the west bank, with the israelis controlling the cheese and the palestinians controlling the holes, will not work and will not deliver peace to israel in the long term. what has been absent up to now is a mutual respect for each other’s rights and for each other’s humanity. we must work to ensure that those two aspects of a political solution in the middle east are developed.
on behalf of the ind/dem group . – mr president, the burden of avoidable disability and disease in developing countries should weigh heavily on our conscience: when a child develops a disabling parasitic disease from contaminated water because its mother cannot afford two tablespoons of bleach to add to the family’s bucket of drinking water; when a child develops hiv from the shared needles used by aid agencies; or when a man or woman is disabled by dangerous exploitative work that creates cheap consumer goods for us. we are so well, healthy and rich. we must give something back and more. we must not take from poorer countries in destructive and disabling ways. we like to put provisos in our aid packages. the proviso we need to include in aid packages is that aid should include people with disabilities and funded projects should include schemes designed to meet their special needs and open up new and equal opportunities. we must include enablement in all our approaches to development in developing countries. and i would remind you that disability is, in itself, still an area for development within the eu. (applause)
mr president, i have always accepted the need for a review of the common agricultural policy’s sugar regime, but i object to the total destruction of the sugar industry in my country and in other eu member states. ireland is facing the prospect of closure of its only processing plant. according to the united nations food and agriculture organization, world sugar consumption in 2004-2005 was 144.8 million tonnes, with production at only 149 million tonnes. we can expect an exponential increase as china, india and many other rapidly developing economies increase their sugar consumption from the present 10 kg per capita per annum to the european average of 35 kg per capital per annum. we must retain production and processing capacity to face these future challenges. having lost the vote on the common organisation of the market, i logically supported the other two reports – on direct support schemes and the temporary restructuring of the sugar industry – in order to secure the best possible deal for irish, eu and acp growers. overall, parliament’s position is an improvement on the proposals from the commission and the council, but it does not go far enough.
in writing. they say it is better to give a fishing rod than a fish. of course, if we are going to callously shut down sugar production in ireland and the eu, we can and must properly compensate the farmers and producers....even if just to salve our consciences. but are we crazy? why are we shutting down sugar production when we desperately need to find alternatives to petroleum fuels? why are we paying to have empty fields and rusting equipment, when we need sugar production more than ever. sugar has other uses besides sweets. on the one hand, we are warning of the disappearance of oil and promoting alternatives. on the other hand sugar - one of the viable alternatives - is being made to disappear. one hand doesn't seem to know what the other is doing. how can we accomplish anything? and while we are planning our own compensation package, remember third countries like mauritius which are being devastated by our sugar reform.
author. – mr president, i am glad to have an opportunity to speak and be one of the authors of this resolution, which aims to highlight a tragic and brutal event that occurred in cairo, egypt, on 30 december 2005. at least 27 people died: 9 women, 7 men and 11 children, according to the egyptian authorities. however, certain eye witnesses, ngos and members of the international press, would claim that the death toll was far higher. this happened when egyptian security forces evacuated by force about 2500 sudanese migrants, refugees and asylum seekers who had settled in front of the unhcr headquarters, requesting to be relocated to third countries. in the short time available to me, i want to focus on a few points. firstly, this parliament has a responsibility to highlight and condemn actions taken by authorities that are a blatant and tragic breach of peoples’ human rights, particularly when these events occur in the eu neighbourhood and with countries that we are working with through cooperation and/or association agreements. in this case, the eu and egypt have an association agreement that has been in force since june 2004. the euro-mediterranean agreement, to which the eu and egypt are parties, is also relevant, as is the barcelona process. so anyone who suggests that this issue is solely an internal issue for egypt is wrong. this is our business, in the same way that what happens within the eu is egypt’s business when it affects the agreements mentioned. secondly, i welcome the commitment by the egyptian authorities to start an investigation into what happened on 30 december. i urge the authorities to ensure that this investigation is absolutely open and transparent and involves un experts and, if possible, egyptian human rights organisations. the inquiry or investigation must be credible if we are to learn lessons from what happened. i hope that the silver lining on this very dark cloud that sits over the event will be a credible assurance from the authorities in egypt that their security forces will act in compliance with international standards and without a disproportionate use of force in the future. finally, this motion supports the unhcr and calls on the commission to establish a closer partnership with the unhcr by offering both political and financial support to assist them in their office in cairo in order to work more closely with the egyptian authorities to find lasting solutions to the difficult situation of sudanese migrants and refugees in egypt.
mr president, firstly i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this very comprehensive report. unlike some other speakers, i consider it necessary and timely. i will highlight just three issues. the gender pay gap remains unacceptably high across europe at 16%. in ireland, it is approximately 15% and this has major implications for women’s standard of living, for their families and their quality of life. this issue must be addressed at national and eu level. secondly, i support the rapporteur’s call to all member states to ensure that women have equal access to social insurance schemes. in ireland, spouses of self-employed people or farmers are often not covered by social insurance in their own right, even though they work on the farm or in the business. they therefore lose out on many benefits and entitlements. this is discriminatory and needs to change. finally, there is an absolute need for positive discrimination towards women in the political system by political parties at all levels, particularly at candidate selection level. i suggest a level of 50% of women. to those who would say we do not always get the best people in that way, i would say rubbish; 51% of the population are women. you will get as much quality from there as from the other 49%. and why do i insist on that? because issues such as caring in the home, violence in the home, trafficking of women and many other issues that are seen as women’s issues are not just women’s issues, they are societal issues. until we have sufficient numbers of women at decision-making level, they will not be mainstreamed in policy responses and will not be adequately addressed.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, the postal directive should serve all consumers and particularly the needs of rural dwellers. the liberalisation of services very often benefits those in areas of dense population at the expense of consumers in less-populated areas. as a member of the european parliament for the west and north-west of ireland, i represent a predominantly rural constituency. in my experience, many directives over the years have had a negative impact on rural areas and rural development because they inadvertently or advertently benefited areas of high population where liberal policies were easier to follow. the local post office in rural communities is a vital economic, social and cultural institution and the rights of rural dwellers to postal services cannot be ignored when framing liberalisation plans for those services in the eu. the provision of and access to such services is the essence of what sustainable rural development is all about. it has to be highlighted that the opening-up of postal services does not always bring benefits in terms of an increased level of employment and i would ask the commission to address this in a detailed study that will be given equality, efficiency and customer-orientation in the postal sector, particularly as regards those peripheral areas. the intention behind the postal directive was good but, like all good intentions, the application was not so good. i would ask the commission and the rapporteur to try and put in place a system of postal services that will be fair to all, a universal service.
mr president, firstly i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a piece of very good work. i believe we now have a reasonable decision from conciliation. it is a sensible and workable decision, through which we have limited the scope of this directive. however, we will still ensure that workers exposed to optical radiation will be fully protected and that their health and safety will be looked after. as far as natural radiation is concerned, risks must be pointed out and reasonable precautions must be taken, but member states should have the responsibility for drawing up the action plan, and that should give legal certainty to workers and employers in different countries. however powerful we may consider ourselves to be in this parliament, we cannot legislate for sunshine or rain across 25 member states. in ireland, partly because of our own inaction and through our own fault, we currently have a nitrates directive based on rainfall, weather and climate, which is totally unworkable, but that is another story. in this situation and with this directive, we have struck a balance. we have avoided over-regulation and excessive bureaucracy and come forward with a piece of legislation that is reasonable and workable and which protects workers.
mr president, i am pleased to have an opportunity to speak on this own-initiative report by mr agnoletto on the human rights and democracy clause in eu agreements. i believe this is an ambitious and serious initiative by the rapporteur. he has produced a report that the subcommittee on human rights of the committee on foreign affairs has described as one of the most important reports for some time. human rights clauses have been included in eu international or trade agreements for more than 50 years. as the commissioner has said, they involve over 120 different countries. this report assesses the effectiveness of such human rights clauses as regards implementation and adherence and proposes new ways to strengthen the clause to make it more effective and better monitored. human rights clauses have had some success in the past. if the truth be told, however, in many cases human rights clauses in eu agreements with third countries have not been worth the paper they were written on. therefore a trade and cooperation relationship develops as a result of an agreement, yet basic and clear breaches of human rights continue; human rights clauses are ignored or not taken seriously, but there are no consequences. this is a regrettable situation; not only is it a missed opportunity for the eu to use its considerable influence better in order to raise human rights standards, it also undermines the credibility of the eu in a key policy area. this report goes into a lot of detail about what a new human rights clause could or should look like, how it could be monitored and enforced to make it more effective and what the consequences of breaching the clause might be in different cases. in essence, however, the report aims to do two things. firstly, to ensure that a new and improved human rights and democracy clause, based on a respect for international law and accepted eu conventions, is included in all new international agreements entered into by the eu. secondly, a mechanism must be put in place that better monitors adherence to the human rights clause, so that breaches of the clause have a range of real consequences for the overall agreement. this would ensure that human rights are given the kind of political priority the commissioner has spoken of today.
mr president, i share the concerns of my colleague, mr maat. i think this directive will force a race to the bottom. it will force broiler production out of the european union, outside our borders and we will not be in control of what is happening. people will be none the wiser, because we do not have labelling.
madam president, for too long europe has been dominated by the politics of fear: fear of globalisation, of immigration and of a race to the bottom. however, in reality, the fear is a fear of change. this is as true for ireland as it is for every member state. in ireland, such fears have not been grounded on concrete economic analysis but on anecdotal evidence of the negative change that the services directive could bring. it is vital, of course, that workers’ standards and conditions are protected and not undermined; guarantees have to be retained that the progress made on workers’ pay and conditions over the years is not undermined in any way. it is vital, therefore, that we support a compromise that ensures the effective control and enforcement of workers’ rights by keeping the original purpose of the directive. however, no barriers can protect us from the forces of globalisation. europe needs to take a confident and unified step forward. the real danger for europe is not the danger of a race to the bottom, but relates to the need for europe to make sure that it is winning the race to stay ahead and that it does not sink to the bottom. gaining a workable consensus on this directive will demonstrate to our citizens that the european union is committed to, and capable of, competing globally. further economic stagnation of european markets should be avoided. most reforms start off as good intentions but can lose their original purpose in parliament through amendments. we cannot allow a situation to develop in which, as one economist was quoted today as saying, ‘the services directive could end up as a good example of “death by parliament”’. it is essential, as commissioner mccreevy stated, that we deliver a better services directive which will unleash the enormous economic potential of the services sector in europe.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can say with all clarity and precision that the recognition of frontiers cannot, of course, be made conditional. allow me, mr. posselt, to report from my own recollections. i was austria's permanent representative to the council of europe at the time when russia and the baltic states were also admitted. i am, of course, aware of the historical background to this situation. we must be clear that this is the result of a historical development. it is essential that the baltic states, as members of the european union, comply with the relevant rules, norms and standards of international law, in particular those of the council of europe and the osce. the standards which, thank god, we have in the europe of the council of europe, but especially in the europe of the european union, are in themselves even higher than those of general international law. we can be proud of that. the council is also committed to ensuring that these stricter rules and standards are respected.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question of public voting in the council, asked by mr de rossa, is as follows: the chancellor said in his speech on the austrian presidency last month that transparency is a concern of the austrian presidency. we want to achieve the greatest possible transparency in this area, within the framework of the relevant provisions between the institutions. there are limits to this, and we must be aware of them. but what we can do as the presidency in the five months that remain, we will be happy to do, and we are also in discussion with the finnish presidency in this context. the situation is already as follows: when the council acts as legislator, the results of votes and the explanations of vote by the members of the council and the explanations of vote in the council minutes are published. information on the voting behaviour of delegations is published and accessible on the council's website. it also contains information on the acts finally adopted by the council in a given month and the monthly list of council acts. this list shall also include any opposing votes and abstentions, explanations of vote and voting rules. we are striving to achieve further improvements. the council secretariat is currently taking steps to make the outcome of votes in the council publicly available on the council's website, including for legislative proposals adopted under the codecision procedure. finally, i would also like to remind you that, once a legal act has been finally adopted, the general secretariat makes all documents already drawn up relating to that act and not covered by a derogation fully available to the public. we, as the presidency, want to ensure that the restrictions that exist and are envisaged are applied as strictly as possible.
thank you for your reply and for your commitment to transparency. can i ask you specifically whether the debate on the services directive in the council over the next couple of months will be open to the public, and whether the decisions made by the member states individually will be available to the public? if not, why not, bearing in mind that this is one of the most controversial issues to be debated by the european union in many a long day and one in which there is huge public interest? if we are serious about bringing europe closer to the public, to europe’s citizens, then this is the kind of debate we need to make public in the council.
would the president-in-office agree that, if any other legislature in the european union took decisions and then issued its minutes and some notes about what discussions had gone on and offered to put the information on an internet site, people would think there was something very undemocratic and shady about it? is it not time once and for all for the council of ministers to meet in public on all these matters when it acts as legislator? i appreciate the progress that has been made, but it is totally unacceptable in the 21st century that legislation continues to be made in this way.
the president-in-office said that a host of instruments are available, but despite that, the eu-25 import dependency for energy, which was 48% in 2002, is projected to rise to 71% by 2030. the eu-15 is dependent on middle east countries for 31% of oil imports, on russia for 30% of gas imports and 28% of oil imports, and on algeria for 22% of gas imports. given the steps taken by russia recently and the vulnerability of some member states to russian petulance, would the president-in-office not agree that the essential element of maintaining security of supply lies in the complete liberalisation of the energy market in the european union, and will he take steps to bring that about?
mr president, next year will be the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome, when the european economic community called for the abolition of the obstacles to the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital as the main objectives towards achieving a common or internal market. in relation to services, however, we have had over 50 years of member state protectionism and restrictive practices, from complicated bureaucratic hurdles and time delays to financial penalties to obscure qualification requirements. in austria, foreign ski instructors cannot provide services for more than 14 days. in belgium and france, emergency repairs can only be done after an eight-day prior notification, which is a contradiction in itself. in order to place temporary pilots and aircraft engineers with an airline in italy, a eur 400 000 deposit and the establishment of four offices are required. and each one of those barriers is invariably justified by invoking the specious but emotive defence of preventing a ‘race to the bottom’. protectionist member states pose as champions of the workers against social dumping. in practice, they are encouraging a rampant black economy. in fact, those countries that have embraced the enlarged eu market have grown from strength to strength. since 1993 the free movement of goods, capital and persons has yielded enormous economic and social gains. nearly 70% of the working population in europe is involved in the services sector, which represents 55% of the eu’s gdp, but, at present, services account for only 20% of trade between member states. the incomplete market has created nearly eur 1 000 billion of prosperity and 2.5 million additional jobs in europe. the services directive could deliver 600 000 jobs more. there are a limited number of services – especially health services – that should have sector-specific measures. i welcome commissioner mccreevy’s undertaking to propose a separate directive on patient mobility and the whole issue of cross-border health service provision. however, i support the remaining provisions of what is already an emaciated directive. it is particularly important that the temporary workers’ agencies are not excluded from the scope, given the extent to which staffing and recruitment agencies are used in a modern, flexible labour market. and why are transport workers and childcare workers excluded? i support the provisions of article 16 wholeheartedly ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, first of all i want to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs gebhardt, mrs van lancker and their shadows in the other groups for the excellent work they have done in seeking to strengthen the services directive. it is obvious to most people in this house that a race to the bottom in any area will not win the allegiance, or indeed build the confidence of european citizens in the european project. i had hoped that commissioner mccreevy here today would have demonstrated that he had understood that message, but unfortunately his remarks with regard to services of general economic interest do not encourage me to believe that he has. to those who want to vote symbolically against bolkestein for domestic reasons, i say fine. but then please support the broad progressive majority in this parliament to deliver a ‘de-bolkesteined’ directive by supporting the key compromise amendments which have been painstakingly negotiated. this house will be abdicating its responsibility by refusing to adopt the amended directive now on offer and leaving our services market, our labour rights, our consumer rights and our environmental rights in this area to the uncertainty of case-by-case decisions of the european court of justice. it is not elected to make law – we are. finally, to mrs de brún, who has now left this house, i would say that if she wants to prevent an irish ferries-style race to the bottom in the services area, then she should, as an obligation, vote for the amendments that she will be offered here tomorrow, as a first step – not as the only step, but as a first step – to prevent what she fears.
mr president, it is difficult to make any real contribution to the services directive debate in a two-minute time-slot. this directive is attempting to achieve a massive amount in one brave step. that is why the debate has been so robust and why all groups have had members working on this directive almost full time in recent months. in this regard, i want to recognise the work of mr harbour in particular, who has put an enormous amount of effort into bringing the compromise wording this far on behalf of the ppe-de group. however, in the intensity of debate on specific amendments, particularly relating to article 16 on the freedom to provide services, let us not lose sight of the overall objective of what we are trying to achieve. this is the first stage of a process that aims to create a directive that will promote a more open and better-functioning internal market for services. if adopted in the right form, this directive can facilitate growth, job creation and increased economic activity in the services sector. the reality is that the eu economy needs a kick-start. this directive can contribute to that. sixty-eight per cent of eu employment and over 60 % of wealth creation comes from the services sector and, therefore, services are the key driver for the sluggish eu economy. in short, this new compromise directive may not give all political groups all of what they want, but it will remove many barriers to cross-border trade and services and reduce the red tape that businesses encounter when they try to expand into other eu countries. a balance between the protection of employment law and collective agreements within the eu member states and opening up a more efficient market for services has been achieved through compromise. i hope this parliament will give a strong mandate to the commission to carry this directive forward with renewed momentum following thursday’s vote, and i look forward to seeing a further improved version of this directive before parliament in the not-too-distant future.
mr mccreevy, i was once lost in the rural roads of your home county. asking directions of a gentleman i passed, i was told ‘well, i wouldn’t start from over here’. i pass this piece of advice to you, commissioner: if you want to smoothly facilitate free and easy movement of services throughout our 25 countries, i wouldn’t start from here. ‘here’ being a vague and incomprehensible mess that will be defined in our courts. ‘here’ being a recipe for chaos, creating a situation where we will potentially become 25 different systems of regulation and business moving to the country with the most regulatory advantages, creating a crisis in which the only solution will be complete federal harmonisation, and who wants that?
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, when discussing the right to freedom and freedom of expression, one of the supreme court judges in the united states, oliver wendell holmes, said that there are no absolute rights; rights can be restricted. the example he gave was that you do not have a right to shout ‘fire’ in a crowded cinema, unless there is a fire. one of the difficulties we face in our discussions is the justifiable desire to ensure that the press and media in europe have freedom of expression, the freedom to poke fun, the freedom to satirise, the freedom, in some cases, to insult people. a democracy, by its very nature, needs the safety valve of humour and offence in order to operate properly. i do not think anybody in this house could in any way condone the violent reaction in certain countries in the middle east to the publication of those cartoons and caricatures. unfortunately, what has been forgotten in the debate, discussion and media coverage, is that there were also many peaceful protests, where muslims and non-muslims came together because they found the cartoons and the images they represented offensive, not to their religious belief per se, but to them as human beings. respect for human dignity is as important a right in any democracy as the right to freedom of expression. one of the greatest challenges facing us in the european union today is to ensure that we do not have a knee-jerk reaction to every horror or outrage. for me, coming from a small country like ireland, it was shocking to see a danish embassy burned and the flag of a country that has stood up for freedom and against intolerance burned in public. likewise, i found it particularly distasteful and very hard to watch the media coverage of a minority element at some of those demonstrations who were inflicting pain on themselves, especially young people. there is an old saying in the media that if it bleeds, it leads; the more dramatic the image, the better chance it has of making the headlines. how can europe respond? president barroso rightly said that europe stands in solidarity with our danish colleagues, because a boycott of danish goods is a boycott of all european goods. we must ensure that we can help our colleagues in the danish government withstand the pressure they are being put under by voices in the media to go back on their present position. even if we are critical of the politics of the danish government and its exercise of tact and skill, prime minister rasmussen did stand up for one principle. he said that he would not be backing down on the question of government or parliament controlling the media. in 50 years’ time he will be feted for that; it is one of the bulwarks of democracy. my last point is that some people on both sides of this argument will try and present it as a clash of civilisations or religions or cultures. respect and tolerance are needed more than anything else now. we must respect differences and give a proper and meaningful role to the different religions in the european union, but we expect mutual recognition. freedom can never be given away. it can be taken from you, but the freedom that allows us to have the passions that burn in our hearts and souls must always be preserved and protected. (applause)
madam president, i thank the commissioner for his comprehensive reply. i would like to ask him what monitoring system has the commission in mind to ensure that there is a balance and an equal share-out of the funding across the regions? as the commissioner knows, there are regions which are not capable of taking down this funding, and obviously that imbalance will create uneven european development. can the commissioner tell me what the commission intends to do about that?
mr president, the report on risk and crisis management in the agricultural sector is welcome and could not be more timely. there has been a radical shift in agricultural activity, brought about by the agricultural reforms of 2003, and the opening-up of markets as a result of the wto. while benefits have undoubtedly flowed for farmers, there has been – as has been said repeatedly this evening – a greater and real increase in the risk factors. under the new cap, the risk and crisis measures that we had all become used to were dismantled and the onus on the protection, prevention and management of crises has shifted squarely onto the farmers’ shoulders. open markets and product mobility increase the possibility of the spread of disease. climate change is happening very quickly, so that reorientation will be inevitable. the depletion of oil stocks means that fertilisers, pesticides and machinery will all be affected in due course and, by extension, agriculture will be affected and will have to adapt. in ireland, the nitrates directive, for example, is beginning to bite and having such serious consequences that the farming organisations have withdrawn from the government-sponsored social and economic partnership talks. farming is in transition as never before. it is in transition because of a variety of factors and the transition will continue. farming is confronted with more risks than ever before. good farming practice and a stable and experienced farming population are the best guarantee for what europe needs, which is a safe, secure and healthy food supply. farming is a difficult life: long hours, hard work, high investment and many risks. in many cases it is a whole family transaction. it deserves the protection against risks proposed by the rapporteur in this report. i commend the rapporteur and his report. i support him completely, particularly in relation to option 2, and i welcome the commissioner’s comments this evening.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to start by expressing my thanks to parliament for the support it has provided over recent months in our common goal of further establishing rural development as the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. i am convinced, as i am sure you are, that it is a policy that really adds value to the european area. thanks to the excellent cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission, our rural development regulation was adopted last autumn. the strategic guidelines which are before you today are an essential element in taking further the process of developing national strategies and rural development programmes in the different member states. i would like to thank parliament, and in particular, the rapporteur, mrs mcguinness, for their help in bringing the opinion forward in a very timely manner. we are still well on the way to delivering our rural development programmes on time. our strategic guidelines for rural development for the period 2007 to 2013 are meant to guide member states in the development of their own national strategies and programmes. i am convinced that our policy will offer many opportunities to make the rural development policy a success, but we will have to use it in the right way. we must use it to help unlock the innovative capacity of our agri-food and forestry sectors and the economic, environmental and social potential of our rural areas and the people who live in them. it is an extraordinary potential and it is our responsibility to do everything we can to mobilise it. the community strategic guidelines will be a first step towards achieving this, firstly by identifying and agreeing the areas where the use of european union support for rural development will create good added value. secondly, by making the link with both the reform of the common agricultural policy and the necessary restructuring, the strengthening of the second pillar provides opportunities both for farmers and for jobs and growth. i have made it very clear that rural development should contribute to the lisbon and göteborg strategies, and i think we are doing just that. thirdly, consistency with other european union policies will be ensured, in particular in the field of cohesion and environment. let me now say a few words about the amendments. the report proposes many helpful suggestions and i am very grateful for this. in my view, many of the amendments tabled by members reflect important issues that are not reflected adequately in the commission proposal. these can be taken either wholly or partially into account. on the other hand, there are a number of proposed amendments which we feel are already dealt with adequately in the current text. i see this as a clear indication of the very broad consensus between the commission and parliament about the aims of our rural development policy. let me conclude this introduction, therefore, by expressing my agreement with the issues raised by the rapporteur in her report: the role of modernisation measures, the need for measures to help to encourage young farmers and farming families to stay in rural areas, and the importance of putting the heart back into our villages, sustainable farming and preservation of the rural heritage. above all, a vibrant, commercial and sustainable agriculture is essential for the development or our rural regions, in which we have a huge common interest.
rapporteur. – mr president, at the outset i should like to thank all those who have assisted with this report and the colleagues who put forward amendments, which were extremely helpful. in my past life as a journalist i had the great pleasure of reporting on the many success stories of rural development, which, as you said, commissioner, unlocked the potential of rural areas. i mention, in particular, those under the leader programme. rural development in action is much more interesting than the theory behind it. however, we need to have rules, and that is why in this report we have set out strategic guidelines to allow member states to plan their programmes from 2007 onwards. i believe that the guidelines offer the flexibility that member states need in order to draw up those programmes. each member states has different needs because rural areas differ right across the 25 member states. we talk about the two pillars of the cap – agriculture and rural development. some people speak of two different policies, but it is important to remember that it is a single policy with two different pillars. i am glad to hear you say, commissioner, that agriculture is still of huge importance. we should not ignore the reality that a vibrant, commercial and sustainable farm sector is a vital component of rural life. of course, rural development has a much wider remit: it provides for restructuring of rural regions and it allows for environmental protection and for measures to improve the quality of life for rural people. just last week i presented certificates to mature students in tullamore, a town in the midlands of ireland. these courses were promoted by the local leader group. each and every one of the students spoke about what a great value it was to them and how it had improved the quality of their lives and that of their community. benefits will flow from that. it is another example of rural development in action – and it does work. rural areas are different from urban areas, but the policy priorities for rural regions have to fit in with the overall objectives, as you have set out, of competitiveness and economic growth, environmental sustainability and quality-of-life issues. because of time constraints, i will not go through all of the details. however, improving the competitiveness of agriculture, forestry and food is a priority. we need ongoing investment in research and development across all of the range of activities in rural regions. in the report, we stressed the importance of job consolidation and maintenance, just as we stressed the importance of job creation. when we reform agriculture there will be changes in employment in rural areas. a quality environment is key to the future of rural regions. so, too, is the ongoing restructuring of the agriculture sector. where we have measures in place to try to encourage young people into farming, we must ensure that they are sufficient to do just that. across the european union we hear of young people not wanting to farm. we may regret that in the future, as it has implications, not just for food production, but also for the quality of our rural environment and landscape. we want young people because we want a living countryside. without people, we have very little else. we also allow for regional specialities to be promoted; organic farming by traditional means is provided for as well. once again, the priority is to ensure that these measures and this production are market led and that the measures we put in place under rural development programmes add value to these local products. non-food uses are also very important, and other reports discussed here tonight spoke of renewable energies and biomass. ensuring that the rural communities have access to basic services, such as childcare and education, is also very important. we need to talk about the quality and affordability of those services. a key requirement in rural regions is access to information technology: to it training and broadband. i spoke earlier about the great success of rural development in the town of tullamore but, in case you think all is wonderful in rural ireland, in terms of broadband penetration, we are unfortunately languishing in 17th place in the european union. broadband, in my view, is just as essential as electricity to rural regions, and yet many parts of rural europe do not have this basic facility. it means that they cannot provide jobs and that small and medium-sized enterprises are held back. with regard to the budget, we did not have access to the final details when this report was being drawn up. we now know that there is a reduction eur 20 billion in funding for rural development for the period 2007 onwards, compared with what the commission had forecast. it is a bad signal to send to rural areas. i have huge concerns about the possibility for member states to cut 20 % of market support measures and direct payments and to allocate it to rural development. that is robbing peter to pay paul. it is, in my view, a renationalisation of agriculture policy by the back door. it is also unworkable in its current form. it now emerges that member states who opt for this voluntary modulation can spend the money in any way they choose, without regard to the rules or indeed national cofinancing; this is regrettable. we must make rural development work for people and the places in which they live. in so doing, we will continue to see the fruits of the policy and ensure that rural development has a future beyond 2013. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i congratulate my colleague on this report. i agree with many of the proposed amendments and with the overall direction, but i have some concerns. firstly, i am disappointed that the minimum allocation for the leader axis in the budget will be reduced to 5%. it is proposed in the financial perspective that member states can increase the rate of modulation by up to 20%. given the ongoing difficulties in the agricultural sector, more resources are required. if the rates are increased, as i hope, we must ensure that ample money is allocated to axes 3 and 4, as well as 1 and 2. concerning diversification, not all those leaving farming and/or rural dwellers are entrepreneurs, or interested in being so. there needs to be provision for helping people into employment and this should be reflected in the guidelines under point 3.3. also, although support for renewable energy is highlighted in points 3.1 and 3.3 of the guidelines, it is futile to provide support for renewable energy at a local level if national policy is prohibitive to the development of the sector. we must therefore coordinate these. it is imperative that the guidelines highlight the need for consultation with those involved at local level in the preparation of the national guidelines and also in the subsequent preparation of rural development programmes. lastly, i should like to say to the commissioner that in ireland it is hard to take her recommendations on organic farming seriously, when she will not allow us to declare the island a gmo-free zone.
mr president, first of all i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on her report and her excellent cooperation. personally, i am adamant that the rural economy, smes and rural networks should play a real and meaningful role in achieving the lisbon goals. rural development is not just an adjunct; it is not just an add-on to compensate for falling numbers in agriculture, though it may well help to achieve that. in its own right, it must contribute to increased prosperity in rural areas. in that context, i agree fully with the rapporteur that funding for rural development should not involve robbing the first pillar to pay for the second pillar. rural development should stand on its own two feet. i am happy about the inclusion of my amendment on the necessity to ensure consultation, cooperation and, where appropriate, compensation for farmers when their activities are restricted owing to the enhancement of landscapes and habitats. i have always believed that if the eu requires that of farmers, it must pay compensation. finally, i have one minor quibble with the rapporteur when she says that agriculture must remain central to the economies of rural areas. while food production, using the european model and food security, are of paramount importance, this should not sideline the contribution of rural development. rural development has an increasing role to play in the maintenance of farmers’ livelihoods and farm family incomes and incomes of rural dwellers, so we need to build a sustainable income stream to complement agricultural income. that has a life of its own and needs an adequate fund of its own; hence my disappointment at the cut in the budget for rural development.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i welcome this report by mr hutchinson on relocation in the context of regional development. it highlights the importance of eu cohesion policy as a means of alleviating disparities in regions that are lagging behind. i come from a country that has benefited from the eu’s structural funds. i therefore welcome this from an irish point of view, but particularly for my own region – the west and north-west of ireland. being a predominantly rural region – 70% of the people live in rural areas – it is more vulnerable than most to the effects of relocation. europe must protect regions like the west and north-west of ireland, particularly as regards the settlement pattern, which can only be sustained by balanced regional development. europe must insist on infrastructure deficits being addressed, especially in areas like transport, energy and modern broadband communication. these deficits inhibit regional competitiveness. in this regard, i warmly welcome the european commission’s approval last week of the irish government’s decision to spend eur 170 million to extend the broadband network over 70 towns across the state. measures such as this will assist the competitiveness of regions, attract mobile investment and hopefully offset the tendencies for companies to set up in locations that are already congested. this is the strongest defence against relocation and in favour of strengthening the regions that need that help most.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the commission on deciding to eliminate mercury. that decision is long overdue. we have known that mercury is dangerous for a long time. i want to congratulate mr matsakis on an excellent report that goes further than the commission, especially in identifying for the commission one of the most dangerous uses of mercury today: thermerasol – mercury directly injected in commonly-used medications such as flu vaccines. since removing mercury from paediatric vaccines in california, cases of autism are continuing to increase. however, for the first time in over 20 years the rate of increase has significantly slowed down. commissioner, please ensure that, if there is an avian flu jab, it will be mercury-free. there is one more source of mercury that i would ask you to eliminate. the irish government pollutes the irish water supply with hexafluorosilic acid, a waste product of the artificial fertiliser industry which, in addition to mercury, contains other toxins such as lead, arsenic, beryllium, vanadium, cadmium, radionuclides and silicone. please tackle that.
in writing. this is an excellent report. we have become starkly aware of more frequent and more severe natural disasters across the eu and the world. upon recalling the last 15 months, for example, we have witnessed the tsunami disaster in asia; the strong tropical cyclone in louisiana and mississippi; the devastating floods in romania, bulgaria, switzerland, austria, germany and france; the serious drought in spain and portugal and the fires that have destroyed nearly 180 000 hectares of forest in portugal. it is clear that natural hazards pose a global threat and warrant global responses. i therefore welcome the proposal for a council regulation and the european parliament's report, specifically regarding the concept of prevention in shaping an eu response to natural disasters. prevention is in every way as crucial as reaction to natural disasters and i welcome the inclusion of the concept of prevention in the report. i also agree that the legal basis is clearer under art. 175(1) of the treaty establishing the european community and support the rapporteur. i agree that the eu´s civil protection doctrine has to be founded on a 'bottom-up' approach and that primary responsibility for civil protection activity should be with the member states.
in writing. i support the main thrust of the paasilinna report and i fully recognise the significant contribution that icts can make towards the realisation of the lisbon goals. however, i oppose the creation of a common consolidated corporate tax as i believe the principle of subsidiarity should apply and decisions in relation to taxation should be retained at national level.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on this issue. unfortunately, however, like all of us here in parliament, the rapporteur seems to be working at somewhat of a disadvantage, because we do not have access yet to the council and the commission’s evaluation mechanism concerning the operation of the european arrest warrant. we can learn some things from the experience we have already gained. on the positive side, compared with the old extradition process, the time delay has reduced dramatically. members speak of between 90 days and 42 days, but some extradition proceedings that would have gone on for years between member states of the european union in the past have now been reduced to 42 days. however, we have to be careful to tread very softly with regard to constitutional rights and fundamental freedoms. some courts have put a question mark about the operation of the european arrest warrant, whether as regards its transposition into international law by the mechanism used or as regards the way that certain courts have interpreted elements of the arrest warrant process. irrespective of harmonisation, this idea of mutual respect, trust and understanding between the judicial authorities is the first step towards creating a wider and more inclusive area of judicial operation. one of the difficulties we face is that we have different legal systems within the eu member states, which have built up bodies of law and precedent. to some extent that affects how we can best utilise this area. that is why limiting the categories of offences to 32 was a good idea in the initial stage. now, however, after the experience we have gained, we can look at this more closely. my last point is that we should not rush towards achieving all these goals in the short term. let us not forget that some countries have only transposed the framework decision in the last number of months. we need more time to look at the evaluation and to ensure that the proper operation takes place. finally, fundamental respect for human rights and freedoms must be at the core of all our work in this area.
i am slightly disappointed in the answer to the question. our policy on development aid focuses on good governance and respect for human rights and it certainly does not seem to be the case here. if you look at the fact that we gave approximately eur 900 million to ethiopia between 2002 and 2005, we do not seem to be getting any respect for human rights in that country. a lot of talking is going on, but there is very little action. i would like to raise the specific case of berhanu nega, the elected mayor of addis ababa. what is happening to him and has that case been raised by the council?
my question, question no 8, also deals with xenophobia. ministers go on here with very long replies. is it not possible, out of courtesy to members, to take questions together when they relate to the same subject? i come here every month to table questions but they are never reached. we reach a very small number of questions, and answers are allowed to go on forever. the very next question in my name addresses the issue of xenophobia and i do not know why it was not taken together with question no 7.
given that xenophobia and racism is often evident at sporting events, would the president-in-office consider, as part of the plan, using sport as a way to fight xenophobia? from acorns grow oak trees. in my own constituency, crumlin united football club – a club for young people, where robbie keane came from – each year holds a sports festival weekend where people not only play sport but also have cultural exchanges. would the president-in-office consider having a weekend across the european union where similar sporting and cultural exchanges take place, so that we use sport to fight xenophobia?
commissioner, could you address the issue of caged beds in romania? when we talk about issues of concern, it is a valid question that you might take up. we have huge concerns about that. in terms of the peer review, which i welcome, will it involve going in without notifying institutions of visits? i believe that is crucial. have you any estimate – at commission level – of how long it will take romania to tackle what is a huge problem for the country? are you convinced that should romania accede next year, it will continue on that path towards reform? i believe that it is only by pressure that we will make progress. i should like to ask, when we talk about children who are abandoned in maternity hospitals and the issue of inter-country adoption, that we put the child at the centre of this issue, rather than any other concerns.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would like to thank commissioner špidla, and mrs bauer, for the report and for the initiative regarding social protection and inclusion. that we have close to 70 million people living at risk in the european union is a shameful statistic and is not acceptable. poverty is a result of the actions of human beings and it can be resolved by the actions of intelligent human beings. we know what solves poverty, yet our economic system continues to reproduce misery for tens of millions of people and, as has been pointed out, continues from generation to generation. we do so because we fail at national level to integrate the various economic, social, cultural and environmental policies that we pursue. we fail to mainstream the solutions that various boards and reports have identified. one of the single most important solutions is not, as is often argued, a job; it is actually education: education from pre-school, certainly primary education, and at a minimum through to secondary education. employment obviously plays a key role, but it must be remarked that too many of our homeless, and indeed our poor, actually have a job. it is therefore clear that the job must be a quality job with decent pay and conditions if it is to have an impact on resolving the issue of poverty. i would argue as well that social protection has to be seen as broader than simply social security. our public services should be seen as mechanisms for social protection. health services, education services, transport and cultural services not only help to protect those who are at risk of poverty, but also keep tens if not hundreds of millions out of poverty by their very existence. if they did not exist there would be many more millions of people on the breadline. i would argue too that the notion that social security is simply a safety net needs to be avoided and that in reforming our social security systems we have to give particular attention to eliminating poverty traps.
rapporteur. – mr president, i will start my presentation on promoting more environmentally friendly fishing methods by reminding parliament that in recent times fishermen collectively have been seriously under attack. because of illegal actions by the few, there is a growing public perception that collectively fishermen are all potential criminals. i say to colleagues and especially to you, commissioner, that this has to stop. are there dishonest people in the fisheries sector? of course there are, just like in every other sector – economic or otherwise – known to man. if someone is guilty of criminal activity then let the full force of the appropriate law apply. on the other hand, we must put a stop to the insidious branding of the entire fisheries profession with the same brush of dishonesty. we must never forget that the great majority of men and women involved in the sector are honest, dedicated and extremely hard-working people. furthermore, no meaningful change can be achieved without the active involvement and participation of those honest fishermen and women. in recent years the key challenge to maintaining sustainable fisheries has, to a large extent, developed into an overly simplistic and polarising debate on whether or not we should have more or less fishing. in reality the challenge of rebuilding stocks and maintaining sustainability is also about developing new and better ways of fishing through the utilisation and development of new technology. the objective of maintaining sustainability must, most centrally, embrace the question of how we fish in the future so that we harvest our marine resources in the most environmentally favourable way. the introduction of fishing practices that reduce adverse impacts on our ecosystems is a priority. to achieve that we must first understand the effects of fishing practices on the marine environment and promote fishing activities that are environmentally sustainable. i am particularly pleased that the last irish presidency proposed the initiative of a major eu programme to make fishing activity more environmentally friendly in order to help to build european fish stocks. this is an urgent matter. the urgency is clearly illustrated by one extraordinary statistic: 20 million tonnes of fish are being discarded worldwide every year, equivalent to about one quarter of total world catches. in the words of the then irish presidency, over-fishing is part of the overall problem; but taking that amount of fish out of the seas and then throwing it overboard is shockingly wasteful and has to be substantially reduced in the short term. i am sure that you will agree with me that we are going nowhere unless that happens, and that we must do something positive about it. it is gratifying that we in the european union are prepared to take the lead to tackle that worldwide problem and deal with such a wasteful side-effect of the fishing industry. the proposed environmental programme includes a review of all existing technical conservation measures within the next two years, to reduce ecosystem and environmental damage. it includes the proposal to fast-track the development of more selective fishing gear. it proposes the simplification of our current rules with a view to facilitating those changes. i started my presentation in defence of fishermen. i conclude my presentation by underlining that it is our fishermen and women who will have a central role in deciding the future of the european fishing industry. fishermen and women will have their say in this process through their regional advisory councils, which will have an extremely important role to play. there is no doubt in my mind that fishermen will fully subscribe to this new environmentally friendly approach. they will do so because it will contribute to sustainable fisheries. they will do so because it will contribute to improving fish stocks. they will do so because it will ensure that fish stocks are properly preserved for future generations. commissioner, if you want this programme to work then you must ensure that there are proposals for financial and other incentives, including additional quota entitlements to encourage fishermen to move towards more selective and more environmentally friendly fishing gear. i hope that you will agree with me, commissioner, that in the current context that will be a small price to pay.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, there is no doubt that the common fisheries policy and the traditional quota system have resulted in depleted fish stocks. the more recent day-at-sea approach does not guarantee environmentally friendly fishing and bizarrely rewards the use of smaller mesh. i am hopeful that policies developed under the newer system, where you have all-stakeholder consultation, will be better than the top-down policies. i support closed boxes such as the recent celtic sea cod box, which, though difficult, has been supported by fishermen. i believe that we must increase mesh size to prevent unnecessary discarding of juvenile fish. ninety millimetres should be the minimum mesh size in order to protect nursery areas and reduce discards. more r&d is needed to tailor selectivity devices such as square mesh panels and sorting grids to make them even more effective in protecting young fish. this year gill netting has been banned in waters deeper than 200 metres. however, further measures are required, including restrictions on the length of gear and measures to prevent the stripping and dumping of nets at sea. mesh sizes for fixed gears must be harmonised. i am confident that the measures outlined above, and others, can contribute significantly to sustainable fishing and ultimately lead to sustainable fisheries.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i should like to thank the president-in-office of the council, mr winkler, and president barroso for their presentations here today. having looked at and discussed this issue over a number of years, one of the things that strikes me is: what do we really want from the lisbon strategy? the core elements and goals are still as valid today as they were when it was first agreed: to make europe the most dynamic and innovative economy in the world by 2010. unfortunately what we hear today is everything but the kitchen sink being thrown into what the lisbon strategy should be doing. perhaps we are too ambitious or too wide-ranging with regard to the areas that we want to see included. one of the most important issues – brought up by all speakers in this house today – has been the investment in human capital: the issue of training, education and the way in which that leads to further research, and future innovation and development. let us really look at what is happening in the european union at the present time. look at the human demographic situation, where we have an ageing population, a dropping birthrate in most member states, and where we do not have strategies to respond to that. we need strategies that look to the positive facet of that ageing population, to the experience that they have; but also strategies that are realistic in seeing that people are being denied opportunities to access the new labour market. we need to give them the skills and training that they require to work in the so-called digital economy. despite all the honeyed words we may spout here, the reality of who is best able to deliver on those strategies – who is best able to give those skills to young workers, students or older people who want to retrain or re-skill – is that it is not the european union, but each member state. that is why we have asked for national plans with clear targets that will guarantee the return of the investment. when we speak about the european employment strategy, social cohesion and social partnership, it is vital that people are carried along, but it is also vital that people wake up and see the reality of what is happening with relocation of industry – as was discussed yesterday – and the lack of investment in research and development. look at the 20 leading biotechnology firms in the world. nineteen are american and one is swiss – none is within the european union. if we want to be realistic about being the most dynamic then we must take tough decisions to reflect that position. (applause)
in writing. i fully support this resolution and urge the football association, and football clubs, to help end human trafficking and forced prostitution and prevent international sports events triggering dramatic increases in this horrific trade. they must 'show the red card to forced prostitution'. they should work with the clubs to inform and educate the general public, and especially sports fans and supporters, about the scale of the problem of forced prostitution and trafficking in human being. up to 800 000 women are victims of trafficking every year, 100 000 of them in the european union. this is one of the most serious abuses of human rights in the world today. organised criminals are now preparing to exploit the world cup. thousands of poor women will be lured to germany by false promises of work, only to be forced into prostitution and a life of misery. we need europe-wide action and the involvement not just of the police and politicians but also of the football association, clubs, and the fans themselves. i urge all fans attending the world cup to be alert to this scandal and to report any suspicions of trafficking that they might have.
in writing. i support the goal of modernising the european economy through the lisbon partnership for growth and employment. i accept that this strategy also has to be seen in the wider context of sustainable development requirements - that our current needs have to be met without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. undoubtedly europe has the resources to sustain our high living standards, but we need to take action to unlock them. i would like it to be on the record that while i support the overall objective of parliament's resolution on the spring summit 2006, i do not support amendments which state that nuclear energy is a viable alternative to europe's current energy dependency. ireland in no way supports the use of nuclear energy.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the creation of an effective, functioning and widely supported human rights commission is an essential part of the un reform package outlined by kofi annan last year. unlike the political minefield that surrounds the reform of the un security council, the un has shown the capacity to agree on a new structure for dealing with human rights questions. most people agree that the current, large-scale, six-week, once-a-year un commission on human rights in geneva is now outdated and needs to be replaced. we need a more permanent mechanism that can respond, year round, to the multitude of human rights crises that arise. the issues of debate in formulating the new structure for human rights have been many: 1. the need for a permanent structure/council. 2. the members of that council must have credibility on human rights questions. 3. the council should not be too big. 4. the council should be reflective of the geographical difference globally. 5. it should not be seen as an elitist council, a small group preaching to the others. 6. the question of how we should select or elect members to that council. 7. the need for a continued role for ngos. 8. a suspension mechanism for those who consistently have a poor human rights record. trying to find agreement and, if necessary, compromise on all of those considerations was never going to be easy. however, in my view, the draft resolution by the president of the general assembly is a reasonable attempt to do just that, an effort to find common ground. i welcome the strong endorsement by the un this evening of that draft resolution. it is unfortunate that the us could not support it. i do not view the document as perfect by any means, however, and i would be critical on two points in particular. first, i think the council is too big: 47 members are too many. secondly, the election procedure whereby members are elected by an absolute majority is not ideal. i would have agreed with the us and would rather have seen a two-thirds majority for that purpose. i should like to finish by saying that it is a job well done by the un today, and i think it will add credibility to its stance on human rights issues.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for helping to protect regional individuality and rural self-sufficiency. europe has such rich and varied produce and food, and we certainly need to protect that from trade liberalisation absolutists. the family recipe, the local flavour, the hand-made product, the quality and unique character need our protection to keep our regions as rich as they are now. but what use will all this valuable work be if, concurrently, we allow gm to infiltrate our crops, and thus our food and produce? here we are trying to protect the individuality of products and the uniqueness of local ingredients. how can we claim that our ingredients are local if they are all modified in a laboratory? those seeds are certainly not your family's variation; they are an identikit monsanto seed of a particular batch number, exactly the same seed as millions of others around the globe. how can we then claim that our products are unique, that they are our rich regional flavour, or that they are from our region at all? would honesty not require us to label our produce as 'monsanto corporation, produced in st louis, missouri'? we must allow regions to choose whether they wish to be gm and we must protect those which do not. we must not only appreciate and preserve local specialities but also the farmers' markets at which they are still sometimes locally sold. we must ensure that, in regulating food marketing, we do not kill off the remaining traditional local farmers' markets.
mr president, before i address the subject of today’s debate, it is important that i record in this house the fact that the irish sugar industry will cease production totally. the announcement was made today in ireland. when we talk about the wto, ireland is their first casualty in terms of sugar beet production. three hundred workers will lose their jobs and 3 500 farmers will be very badly affected. is this the warning sign of what lies ahead, as the power of the wto to shape our agriculture in europe intensifies? if sugar beet is sacrificed today, as it has been in ireland, what about eu beef farming tomorrow? with regard to this report, i thank the rapporteur for his good work. however, i fear that we sometimes talk about this issue with great intensity – as we should – but ignore the bigger picture of commodity production in the european union, which also needs protection. i regret that in ireland we have only three products that are registered under the pgi description, but we have many hundreds of small food companies that could take the protection offered by these regulations. i would urge them to do so. we will need more and more speciality products if we are to meet the challenges in terms of the reform of the cap and the pressures of the wto. we need to recognise that the continuation of food production in europe depends on a commitment to the sector and a recognition that it cannot be expected to survive the onslaught of unlimited market access by low-cost commodities produced outside the union at different and lower standards. by all means let us protect and encourage those who want to produce speciality foods, but let us also recognise that eu agriculture produces high-specification commodities which are also in need of protection.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, public health in each country is crucial to the citizens and is clearly a matter for each member state. one of the great advantages, however, of being a member state of the european union is having access to other member states’ cooperation and knowledge base. it matters in any field and, in this case, if public health, by reason of its scale or effects, can be better achieved through the cooperation of member states, then this should be encouraged. the irish government continues to aim for top-quality healthcare for its citizens, including appropriate, prompt and safe healthcare in the right setting: healthcare provided in a way that is fair to patients, taxpayers and health professionals. it aims to provide professional staff ready for the job, training, equipment and support for promoting healthier living in a healthier environment. in this age, in ireland and across the european union, we have major health challenges to tackle: cardiovascular disease, neuropsychiatric disorders, cancer, digestive diseases, respiratory diseases, sense organ disorders, obesity and diabetes, to mention a few. no one country can tackle this alone. the european union, through the experience of its member states and experts and by virtue of this proposal, which has been greatly improved by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, is rising to the challenge of assisting member states in public health. i also wish to compliment mr trakatellis on his contribution in this report. communications, education, access to modern methods, application of sound medical advice and bridging gaps in the issue of public health at member state level are vital. further, and more specifically, i welcome the amendments regarding the inclusion of alternative medicine in the programme. better knowledge about complementary and alternative medicine can provide an important contribution to the ability of citizens to make better informed and responsible choices regarding their health.
mr president, i congratulate professor trakatellis on the report. it is important to reaffirm that health is a national competence. however, it is appropriate for the eu to encourage health-promoting lifestyles and at least require minimum health service standards in the various countries. that is especially so in a country like mine, ireland, which has the strongest economy in europe while its health service is inadequate and people are put at risk because they cannot get the basic health services they need. diabetes is a good example of a disease that is under-funded in my wealthy constituency. we have half a diabetic nurse post to cater for 250 people, when there should be one for 50 people in order to be effective. other experiences in the irish health system have informed my reading of this report. on human organs, tissue and blood, i will request an oral amendment to include the concept of traceability. our hepatitis c scandals in ireland illustrated the medical dangers of not being able to trace sources of contamination. in the irish organ retention scandal, dead children were routinely stripped of organs without the knowledge or consent of their families, illustrating the ethical necessity of traceability to ensure that human products are obtained legitimately. to conclude, europe has a role to play in promoting health. however, i do not think eu funds should be used to promote profit-making health industries; they have plenty of funds to promote themselves.
mr president, let me start by saying that i agree with absolutely every word the last speaker said; i shall not repeat it all, but well done! i should like to thank mr trakatellis for an excellent report and i also thank the commissioner for being so honest with us here this morning and stating that this community action plan on health already needs to be reviewed if it is to be effective, so that we can prioritise areas, because of – and i use his words – ‘the accounting muddle’. all i can say about that is that it is an embarrassment! the ec treaty states that ‘a high level of human health protection should be ensured in the definition and implementation of all community policies’. this report is an important first step in making our citizens’ right to health protection, enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, a reality. while health is a member state competence, the european community can add value and complement the activities of member states through urgently needed coordination and collation of best practice models so that we can learn from each other and create centres of excellence. by mainstreaming health into all eu policies, by conducting extended health impact assessments and evaluations on all eu legislation and by promoting healthy lifestyles, the eu can provide the necessary platform for joined-up thinking across its member states. according to the world health organisation, in 2000, for the first time in history, the number of overweight people in the world equalled those who were underweight – more than one billion overweight, 300 million of whom are obese – with the huge implications this has for morbidity. in this respect, it is imperative that we encourage a preventive approach and i welcome a number of recent commission initiatives in this area. the broader behavioural, social and environmental factors that determine health can be optimally addressed at community level through a holistic, as opposed to fragmented, approach. complementary and alternative medicines, where scientifically substantiated, must be included in any community action programme in the field of health. the european community is optimally positioned to combat transnational health problems, such as the threat posed by epidemics of infectious diseases and food-related incidences. bse, sars and the recent avian influenza concerns have all, to our cost, underlined the imperative of having proactive, pre-emptive coordinated action in the area of health. the proliferation of eu agencies in the field of health – the european centre for disease prevention and control, the european food safety authority and others – is a very welcome and necessary development in tackling these health threats. however, these bodies cannot function without a clear community-level policy and the necessary designated financial resources to underpin them. if the money is not secured in the budget and a preventive approach cannot be taken, the consequences, financial and otherwise, may be much greater. less money from an eu of 25 than from an eu of 15 is not acceptable and is, frankly, irresponsible. could the commissioner tell us where our health services directive is and when we will have a draft proposal?
mr president, i have an oral amendment, which i have cleared with the rapporteur and my fellow shadow rapporteurs, to add the word ‘traceability’ to amendments 120 and 138. this would mean that amendment 120 would read: ‘promoting the availability, traceability and accessibility across the community of organs and substances of human origin of high quality and safety for medical use.’ amendment 138 would read: ‘activities to help enhance the safety, quality and traceability of organs and substances of human origin, including blood, blood components and blood precursors.’ this is for medical reasons and also for legitimacy reasons.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i should like to join my colleagues in welcoming this decision by eta. unfortunately, it is too late for many of the victims, but just think of the future victims whose lives have been saved because of the decision taken today. as we look to the future of peace and negotiation that will take place in spain as a result of this decision, i want to put into people’s minds the idea that ceasefires and negotiations do not mean subjugation. there must be a parity of esteem between the different sides of the argument; there must be respect for the divergence of opinion; but, most importantly of all, we must never forget that lives have been sacrificed needlessly because people refused to talk to each other on an equal basis and on an equal footing. if anything, the european union has proven, over its 50 years of existence, that it is the best possible peace process that can be seen, because it is based on dialogue, mutual respect, understanding, tolerance – not acceptance – of all different ideas. it is based on respect for people with different ideas and focuses on ways to work together. finally, the opportunity that is now presented by this decision from eta is a groundbreaking one, but do not forget that opportunity comes to pass, not to pause: we must grasp it now and work to fulfil the ideas within it. (applause)
mr president, i also come from an island which had suffered almost 30 years of terrorism. we have had a peace process in place for ten years or more. i very much welcome the announcement today by the eta organisation. my criticism of it would be same criticism i have applied to the ira in ireland for very many years: that it was engaged in a useless, pointless, undemocratic way of seeking to pursue its objectives. however, at the end of the day, as politicians, we have to find a way of achieving a democratic political solution to the problem. it seems to me that the spanish government is to be congratulated in bringing about a situation in which a ceasefire has been announced. it is a matter for all democrats – both in spain and in europe – to back the spanish government in taking the process forward, because if we allow organisations like eta or the ira to see a gap between democrats as to how peace can be built, then we will fail and they will win.
mr president, when the lights went out in california, in turin and even in my own home town of wexford – not to mention the recent gazprom incident – there was a sudden concentration of minds on the security of energy supply, which is of critical importance to us both strategically and economically, particularly with energy import dependency and costs growing exponentially. as the recent green paper on energy policy tells us, unless we can make our domestic energy more competitive in the next couple of decades, 70% of the union’s energy requirements will have to be met by imported products, compared to a figure of only 50% today. most of this is from regions threatened by geopolitical instability. this figure, however, masks the higher energy import dependency of peripheral and geographically isolated energy markets such as the baltics, ireland and other island communities. in ireland, we have gone from 65% dependency on imported energy in 1990 to over 90% dependency today, and rising. our indigenous fossil fuel supplies – peat and natural gas – have been rapidly depleting since 1995, while record economic and industrial growth has pushed up demand. while the energy mix must continue to remain a member state competence, in a single market, an attack on one is an attack on all in energy terms. solidarity within the eu will be vital in securing equitably distributed supplies from outside our borders, through the completion of a competitive, integrated, internal energy market. this cannot happen without additional physical capacity, in the form of trans-european energy networks, to connect us all to a european grid. within each member state, effective ‘unbundling’ of network and supply activities in gas and electricity must be made a reality: in ireland this has yet to happen. through eu-level and member state incentives, we must seriously target the development and mainstreaming of the 21 types of renewables, not least because of our obligations in relation to climate change. i get the impression that, especially where biofuels are concerned, there is no lack of interest: the research and investment communities are circling, but afraid to take a leap in the dark. talk, goodwill and interest are not enough; we need serious financial and regulatory catalysts to increase research and roll out the development of pilot projects using cutting-edge renewable technologies. the decoupling of economic growth and energy consumption and the whole story of demand side management cannot be ignored. world energy demand and carbon dioxide emissions are expected to rise by 60% by 2030. by increasing energy efficiency measures alone by 2020, we can reduce demand by over 20%. commissioner, do not wait until the lights go out again! let us act now and keep energy security at the top of the political agenda in peacetime.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his very comprehensive report on this issue of major importance throughout the eu-25, namely the challenge of demographic change and the importance of solidarity between the generations. in essence, what the report proposes is improved quality of life for all, at all stages of life, and a recognition that policy decisions and legislation enacted should contribute to that core objective. because of time constraints i will briefly make just two points. i am happy to see included in this report a recommendation to member states to improve the provision of services of general interest in rural areas, thereby promoting an equitable balance between rural and urban living, in particular for older people. i am also asking for support on amendment 20, which seeks to recognise the potential of assisted-living housing. i use as a template for this the st brendan’s village project in county mayo in the west of ireland, and the sle habitat extra care scheme in lille in france. in a report produced by the european liaison committee for social housing to mark the united nations year of older persons, one of the main recommendations is that governments and service providers should help people to stay in their own communities as they get older. according to the report, the two projects i have just named provide good examples of projects built to meet local needs. they help keep older people in the communities where they have spent most of their lives, with the support of family, friends and services, and in familiar surroundings. that is surely solidarity between the generations. all of us in this house – if we are lucky enough to live long enough – will grow old. for some of us, that is closer than for others. however, personally, i would prefer to live independently in my community with the level of social and medical assistance that i need. the two projects i referred to are european models of best practice in this area and could be replicated throughout the eu-25.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, in 1981 in ireland i heard a lecture by dr herbert ratner, a professor of public health and medical ethics. in it he described the demography of continental western europe. he accurately predicted the pattern we now see of birth-rate freefall by the year 2000 and the terminal decline of population by 2020, which is now inevitable. in this lecture dr ratner warned his irish listeners to continue to choose life and, among the many benefits this brings, avoid the demographic suicide of our european neighbours. we chose life two years later in a referendum to protect the life of the human person from conception to natural death. ireland’s birth rate is now falling, but we delayed the trend by 20 years and, although today we are just below replacement, we still have the healthiest birth rate, the youngest workforce and the strongest economy in the eu. as the commission’s green paper on demography states, there is no economic growth without population growth. i can think of many good reasons for the eu to embrace the culture of life, the dignity of the human person and god. but, if for no other reason than economic growth and a viable future for europe, we should rethink our attitude to the sanctity of life, to the position of the family and to support for mothers and other carers.
mr president, this is an oral amendment to replace the words ‘improving compatibility of school hours with working hours’ with ‘improving the compatibility of working hours with school hours’.
in writing. mr president, i support the parish report. remember, colleagues, that using sugar as raw material, brazil is the world’s ethanol superpower, with an interesting ownership of the sector – not all brazilian. i am deeply disappointed and saddened by the decision to close the last sugar factory in ireland. hundreds of jobs will be lost. this is a cruel blow for all those who faithfully served the industry for generations. the commission’s decision to reform the sugar industry and to cut the supports it paid to growers never favoured the irish sugar industry. we must now ensure that those who served the sugar industry loyally for many years receive equitable compensation. the whole area of growing alternative crops which may be used among other things for the production of bioethanol must now be given serious consideration and support at both eu and national level, particularly for the sugar beet sector. biofuels offer excellent new opportunities and can utilise the expertise notably of irish tillage farmers. biofuels will contribute to europe’s energy self-sufficiency, at a time of rising oil prices and in light of the recent controversy over gas supplies from russia.
mr president, i should like to mention the decision taken late last week by the british government to sell the british nuclear group and put it into private ownership. this would mean that the sellafield nuclear facility would end up in private ownership. considering that 80% of all british nuclear waste is held in sellafield and that it can process 5000 tonnes of waste per year – about one third of the world’s waste – and considering the serious questions about safety at this plant for many years and the number of accidents that have taken place, i would like to know what guarantees the british government can give concerned parties and the people of ireland that the highest safety standards will be met while this plant is being operated in private hands. one could argue that it could not get any worse and it should go into private hands. however, it is only right that the british government should give categoric assurances that the highest possible safety standards will be met, because this issue is of huge concern to the people of ireland and to many others.
mr president, a lively, public, political debate on concrete issues is the basis for creating a european political space. by having one of our law-making institutions meeting and deciding issues in private, behind closed doors, we are denying the creation and the birth of that political space. i do not underestimate the problems of communicating such a debate to a population of 450 million with over two dozen languages, but we do have the technology today: we have satellite tv, radio, webcasting, a vast range of communication tools which we can use, and i do not believe that cost should be used as an excuse, because the cost of not doing it, the cost of not having an open, public, lively debate in europe is the failure to create a future for europe. on 22 april the competition council will be meeting behind closed doors to decide on the future of the services directive, a directive in which millions of european citizens have taken an active role and active interest. that debate should be in public.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, when all else was gone and jack sold the last cow from what had once been his family’s thriving farm, he at least got a handful of beans. in the hong kong ministerial conference commissioner mandelson made significant concessions on european agriculture in exchange for, i suppose, the hope of concessions in non-agricultural market access from the other big economic powers but, as we know, they did not concede much. in the exchange of agriculture for services, irish sugar beet farmers have lost their crop, and we have now lost the last of our sugar factories, in mallow, in my own constituency, which closed just two weeks ago. irish farmers are worried that beef and dairy will be sacrificed next, in an effort to get trade concessions in services. commissioner, when mr mandelson trades off the last irish cow, what do you expect we will get? so far i cannot see that we have obtained very much.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, the broad economic policy guidelines are vital in providing a coherent framework for guiding member states towards achieving the lisbon goals. the challenge for ireland and europe will be to implement the agreed guidelines via the national reform programmes. it is of utmost importance that europe gains economic stability. however, i absolutely reject all sections of this report that call for support for the commission’s common consolidated corporate tax base. the setting of a common base is intrinsically linked to a harmonised rate. member states need to be realistic in recognising that the introduction of a common tax base is simply the thin edge of the wedge towards tax harmonisation. it is not the right of ireland or any other member state to play a role in setting the tax rate of another member state. the unity of europe is not compromised by diversity in tax policies, rather the eu’s competitiveness is undermined by the wrong tax policies. competition can actually have a harmonising effect. i believe that tax competition harmonises opportunities within the eu and it enables small countries on the periphery of the union to compete. finally, overall i welcome the role of state aid in supporting the lisbon objectives. however, i would like to stress that state aid rules should not be used to block ireland or any other member state from competing against non-eu countries for important foreign direct investment. europe needs flexibility to move forward and meet the challenges of globalisation. europe needs to reform its economies, and all countries should do that.
in writing. i voted against the garcía-margallo y marfil report because of its support for the commission's common consolidated corporate tax base proposal, as stated in paragraph 16. this cccctb proposal clearly sets out the path to tax harmonisation, that great but mostly unspoken threat to irish prosperity. likewise i am opposed to the home state taxation scheme for smes. this harmonisation of taxes is directly opposed to the wishes of the irish people. if we have a common european corporate tax regime, we will lose one of the greatest factors in maintaining our economic independence and our current state of prosperity. i see this as the thin end of the wedge to force a common european tax policy on ireland. i have to advise the irish government to pay careful attention to this space, where our freedom is threatened, and to defend it most vigorously. it is the refrain from irish government circles that: no, there is no plan to harmonise taxes, and if there were, the irish government would reject it. well, here it is, sticking its nose over the horizon; it's time for you to prove your mettle.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – madam president, member states touting protectionism as a positive policy option are dressing up protectionism as patriotism or are scared not of what europe might become, but of what it already is: an economy based on free trade and competition. as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and a draftsman of an opinion on better lawmaking, i am adamant that boosting competition via regulatory reform is the initial stimulus that europe needs to improve productivity. i see it as imperative that all future legislative impact assessments should take into account the increasing level of global competition. furthermore, if the european union is to become more responsible and flexible to the global current of market change, i propose to the commission that a review clause be introduced into all new legislation. also, it is fundamental that, under the guise of better lawmaking, alternatives to legislation be examined. measures such as enhanced levels of consultation and mechanisms to quicken the resolution of disputes need to be investigated. the prime objective of all legislation should be to allow the internal market to function without cross-border obstacles to the growth of industries. we must grasp, therefore, the opportunities that are presented by substantial economies of scale through mergers and acquisitions. i am anxious that concrete steps be taken by the commission to reduce the cost to business of complying with 25 different national regimes. i welcome the operation of the financial services action plan. however, member states should not be allowed to become complacent in the implementation of these 42 directives. if commitment is lacking, then enforcement measures need to be put in place. consistency and the rate of implementation need to be improved if the lisbon objectives and the challenges of globalisation are realistically to be met. people need to realise that globalisation is here, and it is here to stay. it is unacceptable politically and economically that some member states should seek to revert to protectionist policies. irish companies and other european companies are trying to make a reality of the single market and tackle the challenges of globalisation head on, and the governments touting protectionism should not stand in their way.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, i should like to thank the president of the commission and the president-in-office of the council, as well as our rapporteurs, for the mood they have set with regard to this debate today. obviously there are problems within our lawmaking process; there are difficulties which we can all recognise and see in our everyday working lives. one of the things that is most clearly and importantly needed is the codification and simplification of the existing body of law – the acquis communautaire – not only to ensure that businesses can operate more freely or properly across the internal market, but also to guarantee that individuals recognise where their rights are protected; that there are clear and defined rules to ensure that big business cannot overrun the rights of workers; that consumers cannot be trodden under foot because of decisions taken by financial institutions or whatever else. that is why for many years we in parliament have been attempting to put in place this idea of impact assessment with regard to all legislation, to test it before it becomes law, to see its necessity and to understand fully what its impact will be when it is eventually transposed into law. however, when you look at the whole question of lawmaking, the biggest difficulties and the biggest culprits are found at member state level in transposition of agreed european law. this is where governments have already been represented at the decision-making process, where parliament and the commission have been involved, but when it comes to transposition there is a difficulty because of a local domestic political dispute or because of a fear of a backlash in that political area. i think it would be wrong for the commission to portray itself purely in the guise of the terrible enforcer against the member states, because sometimes there are mistakes and errors within the legislation which must be corrected, and flexibility is required to achieve this. my last point is that, in setting up any working groups or expert groups concerning better lawmaking, it is essential to get the practitioners of politics involved – not just technocrats or parliamentary draftsmen, but politicians themselves who can understand how this must be sold to the public and enforced at a local level.
author. – thank you, commissioner, for your response. on the last point that you made with regard to the rules concerning excessive public deficits and the fact that proposals have been made to italy, portugal, hungary and the united kingdom, what about france and germany? both of them have public deficits that are well beyond the limits agreed under the criteria. in particular, what about the undermining of confidence in the stability pact which that creates on the wider market? that is particularly apparent when we look at the current difficulties concerning the recognition of the euro and the eurozone economy within the united states and in the far east, and at the constant questioning concerning the enforcement of the rules concerning the stability and growth pact in those areas.
i would like to ask the commissioner what level of discussions he has had with member states of the eurozone in relation to their performance and their potential performance. in the case of ireland, for example, asset inflation, the price index for houses, went up 1.5% in february. we have had double-digit inflation in housing for some time and it looks like we will continue to have that. if there is a hard landing in the construction industry; it has implications for revenue; it has implications for unemployment payments and therefore revenue; it has implications for consumer confidence. have you had discussions with the irish government on this issue, and to what extent has the commission considered the implications for a eurozone member of the possibility of a hard landing?
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to ask the commission to take the floor first. i believe it has a statement that it wishes to put on the record, to which i would like to be in a position to reply.
rapporteur. – mr president, i thank the commissioner for accepting my invitation for him to lead off in the debate tonight, because i have concerns about the declaration he has just put on the record and i will be reverting to it during the debate, as, i suspect, will other colleagues too. this legislation is a fascinating case study for anyone interested in the institutional decision-making processes of the european parliament. firstly, i wish to thank all my colleagues, in particular the shadow rapporteur, mrs corbey, for the cooperation we had during a long and difficult enough debate at times. fluorinated gases were introduced in the nineties to replace the ozone-depleting cfcs and hcfcs. they are used in all sorts of applications, some essential, others less so: in insulating foams, in aerosols, in refrigeration and air conditioning systems; in fire protection equipment and switchgear and even in the soles of ‘air-tech’ jogging shoes, as well as, of course, in double-glazed windows. the list is very long. as the debate on climate change developed following the un framework convention on climate change, the harmful impact of these fluorinated gases, owing to their high global warming potential – gwp – came to be recognised as a major contributor – up to 5% and rising – to the greenhouse effect. not only do these gases have high gwps, the most potent – sulphur hexafluoride or sf6 – has a gwp of almost 24 000 times that of co2, the most common greenhouse gas. they also have very long half-lives. if no measures are taken, the commission estimates that emissions of fluorinated gases will be 50% above the 1995 levels by 2010. others would cite a much higher figure. with the measures agreed in this package of legislation, they will be reduced by more than 20% from the 1995 levels by 2012. of the six greenhouse gases listed in the annex to the 1997 kyoto protocol, three of them are fluorinated gases. in all, the current legislation encourages a reduction in emissions of 25 fluorinated gases – hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride – through containment, responsible use, recovery, destruction and disposal. the aim of the legislation is to enable member states to meet their kyoto targets by containing the leakage and restricting the use of fluorinated gases. whereas the original commission draft proposal was in the form of one regulation with a single market legal base, namely article 95, the council reached a common position which took the form of two separate texts: a directive based on article 95 and a regulation based on a dual legal base consisting of articles 175 and 95. the rationale for the split of the commission’s original proposal into two different texts, suggested by the european parliament at its first reading, was to move all the requirements relating to emissions from air conditioning in motor vehicles from the proposed regulation to framework directive 70/156/eec on the type-approval of motor vehicles. the proposed regulation would then focus on the remaining statutory applications. so, having chopped it in two and taken the highly dubious step of dividing the regulation between two legal bases – the main thrust being environment, with some ancillary provisions grounded on the single market legal base – the council handed the baton back to parliament. in the second reading in parliament, there was no definitive resolution on the crucial vexed issue of the dual legal base of the regulation, which was retained. my proposal, as rapporteur, to adopt a single environment-linked legal base as the only means of achieving legal certainty, did not obtain the required qualified majority. amendments were adopted, however, which attempted to underline the fact that stricter national measures are allowed under single market measures, provided they are proportionate, non-discriminatory and not purely economic in nature. article 176 of the treaty explains this mechanism relating to the environment or the article 175 laws. this outcome created great uncertainty for a number of reasons. firstly, there was the matter of general principle that, in the interests of promoting better, simpler and clearer legislation, the introduction of an unevenly weighted, dual legal basis represents a dangerous direction and precedent in european policy-making. secondly, there is the ecj’s consistent case-law according to which there should be a sole legal base which reflects the preponderant purpose or the centre of gravity of the legislation. the centre of gravity of this regulation is indisputably environmental protection, which would warrant an environment base – an approach of minimum harmonisation. finally, there was the unresolved question as to whether the member states that already have more ambitious legislation in force – notably austria and denmark – would be allowed to keep those measures, or whether the eu would force them to lower their environmental standards in an area of combating climate change at a time when there are already difficulties in meeting kyoto targets to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. given the implacable divisions within the council on this final issue of stricter national measures for certain member states, a third reading in conciliation was inevitable. after many exhaustive weeks of informatory preparatory work and meetings, the conciliation committee reached agreement on a joint text for the regulation concerning certain fluorinated greenhouse gases – f-gases – on 31 january 2006, which addressed the main points of disagreement between parliament and the council, which are namely: the possibility for the member states to keep or introduce national measures stricter than those foreseen by the regulation; technical provisions regarding f-gas containment; reporting and review of the regulation; definition of placing on the market; cross-border transport or shipment of f-gases for recovery; labelling; notification of measures introducing further bans on f-gases; and the area of training and certification. however, the key point that i want to refer to again is the issue of stricter national measures. important for encouraging an environmental race to the top was the agreement on the general principle that member states can maintain or introduce stricter national measures in accordance with the provisions of the treaty. in the specific case of the existing national measures in denmark and austria, against which the commission has been considering legal action, a safeguard clause was introduced which would allow the two member states to keep their legislation until 31 december 2012. both countries already have strict legislation on f-gases in place – since the 1970s in the case of denmark – and they view it as a key measure in their policy mix to achieve their kyoto climate change targets. i believe the legislation now agreed and awaiting final sanction by our colleagues in this parliament tomorrow strikes an equitable balance between environmental protection and single market concerns. it reaffirms the european community’s commitment to reducing climate change and will provide a considerable stimulus to the development of new environmental technologies, thus contributing to our lisbon agenda knowledge economy goals. it will do so in a measured, sensible and proportionate way that recognises certain critical uses for these gases, which, we must not forget, can be useful in certain circumstances for the very reason that they are excellent insulators. electrical or electronic switch gear, amongst other vital uses, will continue to use f-gases in a contained environment. there is no better or more suitable substitute in that case, and that must be the test. the conciliation compromise was welcomed by the three institutions, by myself, by my european parliament colleagues, by minister pröll, on behalf of the european council, and by the environment commissioner, mr dimas. it was the only equitable and honourable outcome. to quote directly, commissioner dimas welcomed the agreement as ‘a clear and positive political signal’ but alluded to the fact that the commission would later decide whether to issue a declaration on the record when the legislation was finally adopted, as it is scheduled to be tomorrow. i should like to lay down a marker in relation to the declaration we have just heard from commissioner figeľ, speaking on behalf of commissioner dimas. in the laborious process of negotiating this legislation, it was the clear intention of the legislators – parliament and the council – to provide for the widest possible interpretation of the powers for environmental measures to be taken on the basis of a single market legal base. i strenuously reject any attempt by the commission to construe the terms of that legal base so as to narrowly confine it to article 95(4), which outlines a prior notification procedure. such a declaration represents a misinterpretation of the outcome of conciliation, where there was a clear if implicit intention to allow stricter national measures on the basis of article 95(10). while any declaration from the commission in this context is non-binding, it may play a role in the purpose of interpretation of the ecj on this subject, if perchance this legislation, which has already spanned two legislatures, gets a fourth reading at the court in luxembourg, as was my concern from the start. tonight i want to make it clear that the principal aims of this regulation – to cut our emissions of fluorinated gases – should be respected and adhered to in the fullest sense. i regret the fact that the commission has not to date made the gesture of withdrawing its letter of formal notice to the danish government. i would urge commissioner figeľ to put on the record tonight the commission’s intention of doing so as soon as possible. the directive on air conditioning systems in motor vehicles was the second arm of the package of the two proposals to emerge from the council’s first reading on the recommendation of my predecessor as rapporteur, mr goodwill. i welcome the pioneering decision to introduce a phased ban on fluorinated gases with a global warming potential of more than 150 times the potency of carbon dioxide in motor vehicles. this ban will apply to new vehicle types in 2011 and to all new vehicles in 2017. bringing the measure into line with the long-established vehicle type approval system will also maintain the competitiveness and ensure the compliance of european car manufacturers. the risk threshold will eliminate the main air conditioning gas currently in use and it will allow less harmful gases to be used instead. in practice, most vehicle producers are likely to introduce carbon-dioxide-based systems. but the important point is that we are allowing the development of these new systems without being technology prescriptive and without infringing our obligations under the wto.
rapporteur. – mr president, would it be in order for the commissioner to respond now to some of the points that were made? i know it is very late and we are testing your patience. if not, it will come up tomorrow before the vote. i would also like to make a request on the record now, so the message gets through, that we will be calling on the austrian presidency to comment tomorrow on this specifically. would the powers that be send the message, so there is no misunderstanding: tomorrow we would like them present. apart from having the presidency, it is a particularly important case for austria. there were many important points put directly to commissioner figel'; i should be delighted if he would respond to them. there is a lot of unhappiness here about the commission declaration. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, there was a particular charge, that i think needs answering, that the commission’s legal service is working behind the scenes to undermine the conciliation decision. is that true? is there a difference between dg enterprise and dg environment on this issue, and has dg enterprise won the battle?
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i wish to thank the president-in-office, as well as president barroso, for their contributions here today. however, i wish to begin by saying that i absolutely deplore the way this house has been used this morning, in this debate, to fight national political elections. if we in parliament cannot show enough maturity to deal with the real issues of the european summit and the european council, rather than going back to basic party political bickering between different individuals, then it is a sad reflection on this house. in fact, a lot of positive things have come out of the european council meeting that we should be promoting very strongly, in particular the commitments given to increasing employment opportunities and increasing the amount of money to be put into research and development; assisting in the expansion of the lifelong learning and education and training programmes; utilising the resources available to the european investment bank to kick start small and medium-sized enterprises, to give them an opportunity to create the jobs and to create the economic wealth and growth which is necessary within the european union. the overall new policies that we are trying to work towards include a common energy system, where we recognise, of course, the rights of the member states to deal with their own energy issues, but also see where those individual member states can cooperate with each other to guarantee minimum resources as regards safety and security, with regard to interconnection and to guaranteeing the proper use of funding for research and development as regards new renewable energies and in particular on biofuels. in our desire to help the environment, whilst at the same time reducing our dependence on imported fuels, we could use new energy crops to run all of our public transport in the european union, if we so wished. we could use solar energy to heat our houses, if we so wished. we could use biomass to heat factories, schools and hospitals, if we so wished. however, that requires us to make an investment to guarantee that the technology is available for all and, through our taxation, to give preference to energies that are less damaging to the environment, as we did with the introduction of unleaded petrol many years ago. looking at the positive side, yesterday we saw where parliament can respond. with regard to the services directive and the financial perspectives, parliament is willing to act as a political body to ensure that it can deliver on behalf of the european citizens, in cooperation with the other institutions. however – and this is the downside – when we speak about small and medium-sized enterprises and encouraging greater growth in research and development, and put forward the wonderful idea of a european institute for technology and expertise, the one thing that is missing in all of that is a proper eu legal framework for the protection of intellectual property rights, because companies and businesses will not invest in r&d unless they are guaranteed protection for their ideas. we have failed miserably in the european union to put in place a proper legal framework to allow that money to be utilised alongside the public funding that is available. we have delivered on our commitments, we must now ensure that we can deliver on our future promises for the future generations in europe.
rapporteur. – mr president, in the light of a declaration put on the record of this house last night by the commission, during the plenary debate on the regulation on certain fluorinated gases, the text of which was not introduced during conciliation, and which compromises the spirit of the conciliation agreement and shows great disrespect and disregard for the clear will of parliament and the council, i should like to request a postponement of the vote on the two reports on fluorinated gases, at least until tomorrow. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, i requested the postponement of the vote on the two reports on fluorinated gases. they have been taken together all the way through and i believe it would be more consistent to keep them together.
mrs president, on a point of order, every single month i find myself left out of question time, even though i am in the first 12 or 13 questions. to take three questions together and only get through ten questions is really a reflection on this house. something has to be done about this. i am sent here by people to ask questions. there are 700 of us. to get through that few questions is really quite an appalling reflection on the house and the system. i would ask that this be communicated to the bureau because something needs to be done about it.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, in the eu we have an expanding need for well-trained committed doctors, nurses, therapists and technicians. population-ageing, increases in the incidence of disease and increases in the treatments for them mean a greater demand for workers in the health sector. but we should not just consider our need for healthcare, but the needs of those who deliver it. their first need is to be safe. we must do everything to protect them from diseases and accidents, especially needle-stick and exposure injuries. it is almost a tradition to overwork doctors and nurses, but tired, stressed staff are far more prone to dangers. vaccines have a part to play in protecting healthcare workers, but we must, in mandating immunisations for our healthcare workers, acknowledge and compensate those who have suffered debilitating adverse reactions. in ireland we have seriously restricted, and still restrict, the number of young irish people who train for medicine, nursing, pharmacology and the therapies. when we – as we inevitably do – experience shortfalls in services, we solve the problem by hiring people from other countries. we can now afford to do this and these excellent professionals are a boost to our health service. our hospitals and our health services are staffed by health workers from india, the philippines, south africa and many other countries. i have been told by some of them that they see working in an eu country as a great opportunity, but i wonder if we ever give a thought to those left behind, especially to the sick. healthcare migration is certainly to our benefit, but as lives are saved in developed countries, they are lost in less developed countries. a zambian government official described to me the difficulty zambia has in retaining doctors. its government sends promising students to the eu to train, but once the training is complete they either do not return or when they do they find that their highly technical training relates very poorly to work in settings with little equipment and few drugs. they leave in frustration. we must address this problem urgently. this brings me to my last point. i would like to ask what competence members think we have to condemn another sovereign nation because its country refuses to fund projects it disagrees with. i am referring to the us-mexico city policy of requiring that ngos agree, as a condition of receiving us funds, that they should neither perform nor promote abortion as a method of family planning in other nations. in condemning the way the us is spending its foreign aid, amendment 5 presumes a mandate that this house and this union simply do not have.
mr president, this is perhaps one of the most important debates we have had in this house. i am sorry that because of the late hour there are not more people here to listen to the appalling statistics of deaths of young children, of mothers – needless deaths from illnesses that we could cure so easily. i want to thank the commission and my colleagues for highlighting the terrible ills that face us in the world and for trying to raise awareness of the appalling vista that lies ahead. i come from ireland, a country from which not so long ago we were exporting nurses because there were no jobs for them. today, sadly, we are now importing people into the health-care sector in large numbers because we have such a shortage of skills. we are not thinking about the countries we are robbing of their people, because our motives are selfish: we need to look after our own. yet, even when we take in people from outside, we see in our accident and emergency departments, on a daily basis, people who in many respects are in third world conditions, lying on trolleys in unacceptable conditions. so the problems are first-hand and they are all-pervasive. i was in malawi last year. i witnessed what one of my colleagues has already spoken about: the lack of nurses – who are now in manchester – and the appalling effects this is having in that country. it is hard to know what the answers are, but perhaps we should look at the job of the health-care workers and value what they do more than we do at the moment – in terms also of respecting and rewarding them. it was asked how we can compensate the developing world for having taken their best. there is a huge moral question about how we reject the rest, but take the best. we must not do nothing. we are moving on to a debate on avian influenza and market support measures. heaven help us if we have a human pandemic and see how stretched our health-care services will be worldwide. i should like to read out what the world health organization wants us to do on friday, the day we are talking about: ‘raise awareness of this chronic problem’ – the crisis concerning health-care workers – ‘and to build support to ensure that health workers will be working where they are needed, when they are needed, with the right skills to provide the highest attainable level of health for people everywhere’. i hope we achieve this.
mr president, it is good that we are doing something to assist the poultry industry. unfortunately we have had other experiences of loss of consumer confidence in other food products. in ireland we have had no cases or reports of wild birds or others with avian flu, but we have suffered a fall in consumption of up to 20%. europe has been accused of making a mountain out of a molehill but the truth is that we are in a very difficult position. i sympathise with the commission. how do we keep avian flu highlighted so that we do not have a human pandemic and so that we spot the problem in wild birds, while at the same time trying to avoid scaring consumers? it is an extremely difficult balance. i believe that members of this house can play a role in communicating effectively and without panic what is happening throughout the european union and why we are taking action. there is a huge gap in consumer knowledge. the trouble is that we have large quantities of poultry meat in storage. export refunds may not be the answer because markets are closing down to us. we need to manage the stocks. while they are there, they are a huge problem. i feel that removing hatch eggs is part of the solution, but i would worry that you could go too far. let us hope that this crisis is just for the short term, rather than the long term, and that we rebuild confidence and consumption. i believe that is what we are all trying to do. however, the poultry sector throughout the european union is pleased that the eu is responding. part of that response has to be accurate, clear, panic-free information to consumers.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i very much welcome mr van den berg’s report on aid effectiveness and corruption in developing countries and i would like to congratulate him on it. corruption is the single biggest obstacle to the delivery of aid to the poor. we have to ask why the eu continues to channel aid to corrupt regimes. how can we stand by and watch starvation in many african countries, while the leaders are laden with the trappings of exceptional wealth? the eu must take a firm stance against governments that are exercising blatantly corrupt methods of governance. there is a need for more transparency. the eu is the world’s largest donor of aid. the eu has a responsibility to monitor and approve the implementation of this aid. more aid must be channelled directly into specific projects rather than a handover to recipient national coffers, so it is absolutely clear where the money is being spent. the establishment of civil society watchdogs in developing countries must be seriously looked at and i call on the commission to give the appropriate percentage of budget aid for such watchdogs. education and training needs to be improved and the number of women in higher level education needs to be increased in order to afford them the opportunity to become more involved in politics. anyone who has visited africa knows the important role that women play. they could play a far more important role if they were allowed to, so this needs to be looked at and encouraged. a major question facing development countries is the illicit acquisition of public funds by government officials who store them in offshore accounts. i call on the financial institutions that hold these stolen funds to freeze them or confiscate them. they know where this money is coming from. if i lodge eur 10 000 in my bank account in ireland, the bank manager is obliged to ask me where the money came from. in these countries they put millions in and nobody asks them anything. i call for corrupt regimes or individuals to be blacklisted, to prevent them from borrowing large sums of money from wealthy countries. only when they have made a noteworthy move towards democracy should they be removed from the list. we also have to examine ourselves. take the case of kenya and the anglo leasing scandal. mr john githongo, who is the anti-corruption tsar, had to leave the country because of what he found and he has asked that british citizens be examined concerning this scandal. people in europe are involved in scams and bogus companies that are lending and giving money to africa and they have to be stopped. a number of years ago there was a campaign in all european countries. in ireland we brought in legislation that meant that people involved in sexual offences in third world countries could be charged in their home country. the same kind of legislation could be introduced in europe with regard to corruption so that anybody in europe involved in corruption or bribing officials in africa or any other third world country could and should be charged under legislation in their home country. that is the sort of thing we have to look at if we are going to get rid of corruption. we cannot just blame african people. we have got to look at ourselves and how we are involved in schemes of this sort.
mr president, last night the word ‘corruption’ was mentioned several times in our debate on world health day 2006. this morning we are debating the scale and extent of it. i congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report. some members have mentioned the global problem of corruption. i think we are deluding ourselves if we say that it is just a problem for the developing world. i would suggest that they have learned from the developed world: much to our shame, we have taught them some tricks. we therefore owe it to them and to ourselves to clean up our own act. i would support my colleague, mr ryan, who said that the banks and the financial institutions need to be looked at in this entire process, because if there were no home to put the money into perhaps they might not be so corrupt. this morning i spoke to some aid agencies that have long experience in this area. their key message to us is that we must build up the capacity within the systems and the civil service of the developing world, and then build that into all our aid programmes. they also said that this is a long-term process and we will not get results overnight. i think a big part of our crackdown on the corrupt is to take them out within the developed world first and then perhaps assist the rooting-out of corruption in the developing world. whatever we do, we must not penalise those who most need our aid, money and assistance. i always feel when we talk about tackling corruption that it is they who will again suffer. that is the one message. let us build it into our programmes, but let us ensure that we keep up our aid work, that it gets to the right people and that they do not suffer.
rapporteur. – mr president, yesterday, in the light of a unilateral declaration put on the record by the commission during tuesday night’s plenary debate on the regulation on certain fluorinated gases, the text of which was not introduced during conciliation and which compromises the spirit of the conciliation agreement and shows great disrespect and disregard for the clear will of parliament and council, i requested a postponement of the vote on the two reports on fluorinated gases, at least until today, to allow time to explore with colleagues in all political groups the serious implications for us as legislators of what we consider to have been an abuse of parliament because of an internal turf war between two dgs within the commission. the commission’s role as guardian of the treaty and initiator of legislation is fully respected by this house and does not need to be constantly reiterated. likewise, we as legislators demand full respect from all sections and services within the commission for our role. hours spent discussing better regulation and relations between the commission and the european parliament come to nothing if they are disregarded in this house by the commission and commission spokespersons. (applause) i would like to put on record a letter written yesterday by professor trakatellis, chairman of the conciliation committee, and by me as rapporteur to president barroso: ‘we are writing to express our disappointment about the content of the declaration on the final text of the fluorinated gas regulation made unilaterally by the commission in the course of the european parliament plenary session of 4 april 2006.‘ as you are aware, the regulation is an important step towards the achievement of the objectives set out in the kyoto protocol and in line with the european climate change action programme. we fear that the commission’s declaration was an attempt to compromise the difficult political agreement reached between the european parliament and council and with the support of the commission. ‘on 31 january both the european parliament and the council demonstrated a clear will to find a political solution to the problem of national measures, already adopted by some member states, to reduce f-gas emissions. the declaration was made at the last minute and cannot be considered a positive step in the process of adoption of community legislation. we sincerely hope that the commission will consider carefully its next steps, not only from a purely legal point of view, but also in accordance with the spirit of the agreement reached in conciliation.’ the letter is signed by my colleague professor trakatellis and me. i was assured personally last night by commissioner verheugen, the commissioner for enterprise and industry and vice-president of the commission, that – and i quote him with his permission: ‘if the new regulation enters into force, i will propose to the commission to withdraw the infringement procedures against austria and denmark.’ (applause) in good faith, i would request commissioner kyprianou, who is in the house today representing the commission, to respond on behalf of the commission to the serious concerns that have been generated by the text of tuesday night’s declaration. (applause)
in writing. a new recycling facility opened in cork in january. i passed it on saturday evening and noticed an already impressive stack of refrigerators that had accumulated in less than ten weeks. these mountains of ageing refrigerators, and in warmer climates air conditioners, are rusting in every population centre in the eu. strong fluorinated greenhouse gases legislation is long overdue to rectify the past and protect our climate into the future. i congratulate all parties in this process in reaching agreement to protect stricter laws in countries like denmark, and in issues of labelling. though i note that the commission had second thoughts, i feel we must hold it to its word. i look forward to the day when the eu will be compliant with its kyoto obligation on f-gases.
on behalf of the ind/dem group . – mr president, my contacts in touch with those on the ground in southern sudan inform me that there is a situation developing right now that deserves our urgent attention. while the government in khartoum claims to keep peace agreements, which we know it does not, it funds the lra – the lord’s resistance army – from northern uganda to continue the genocide for them. the lra lay siege to southern sudanese villages: killing the adults, taking the children. young girls are abducted to become sex and labour slaves and they are also sold, traded and given as gifts to the lra arms dealers. young boys are terrorised into virtual slavery as guards and soldiers. the lra is only a small force, but it is increasingly expanding because abducted young boys are being used as combatants. it is planting season now in southern sudan. civilians should be planting but they cannot, because of the lra threat, which is again backed by their own government. if nothing is planted, famine will result. the situation is critical, they need our protection now. we have to ask ourselves: if russia and china can support the government, why cannot we support the suffering sudanese people?
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, in speaking today it is very difficult to know what words can fully express the horrors which still befall the people of chernobyl, belarus, ukraine, kazakhstan and other parts of europe because of the results of this accident. i was particularly moved by what commissioner piebalgs said in his opening statement about the people who went in immediately after the accident to do the clean-up work, to try to put concrete into the sarcophagus, and to try to protect the rest of the population. those people are forgotten today in our discussions. they gave their lives knowing that it was a suicide mission but, for fellow mankind and for the greater good of their countrymen and countrywomen, they took that action and took that dangerous task on board. today when we speak about chernobyl and the nuclear industry, the two go hand in hand. despite what people may say about advances in technology or the new safety measures that have been put in place, the risks associated with nuclear energy are so vast and so great. the waste product has an active life of thousands of years that we can neither control nor manage. before world war ii, a famous american general made this comment about possible atomic weapons: ‘atomic weapons are to an army what an elephant is to a mouse. if we can control them and use them for our good, it is a great thing; but by scale and virtue of size it is impossible for a mouse to control what an elephant will do’. likewise, i believe it is impossible for mankind to control what nuclear energy will do. the best option we have is to forego the nuclear option and look at alternatives, as other people have mentioned. to move away from that argument back to today: when we think of the lessons of 20 years, in ukraine and belarus and in other parts of europe there are still children being born with birth defects. there is a cardiac condition known as chernobyl heart, where young children who should be full of health and full of life suffer severe heart attacks and strokes because of the impact of radiation and the fallout they have in their own systems. in the late 1980s and early 1990s a voluntary group called the chernobyl children’s project was set up in ireland by one woman who saw the horrors of chernobyl. since then, every summer, 14 000 children have been brought from chernobyl to ireland for a three-week break in a clean environment, to get fresh air, to live with host families, to know what it is like to live in a proper family environment, and to get medical and dental treatment. over that period of time, that voluntary group has raised over eur 60 million for humanitarian and medical aid for chernobyl and belarus. there are many other small projects like that, which are run by individuals who saw the need. i shall end with this short quote. dostoyevsky said: ‘no world event is worth the shedding of one child’s tear’. just think of all the tears that have been shed by children and by families because of chernobyl. it is our responsibility to ensure that it cannot happen again. (applause)
mr president, the commissioner has received a great deal of advice today, so i am not going to repeat anything other than the fact that we all hope that romania and bulgaria will meet the criteria and join the european union. i have spoken on one specific issue at each of these debates and i do so again, and that is the case of abandoned babies and children in care in romania. i know that great progress has been made there. i have seen some progress. there are new laws in place. we need to make sure that the laws are fully implemented so that the children abandoned and in care receive the proper treatment they deserve. unfortunately, we still have a debate about children who are apparently trapped, waiting for adoption out of romania. i know that there is a ban in place and i would ask the commission to give us the decisive view on this, because we have received conflicting information from both sides of this debate. i think our care for the children involved is central to it, and that must be the beginning and the end of this debate. my view concerning romania and bulgaria – particularly romania – is that membership of the european union would be good for those children who find themselves abandoned or in care. within the european union these issues will continue to be raised and progress will be made. i am glad that we are having this debate today if only to raise this issue again. i would ask you, commissioner, because the commission has observers there, to give us accurate information on what is happening in relation to the numbers of abandoned babies. what is happening to them? is there proper fostering in place and are there pending cases still unresolved?
mr president, i would like to raise an issue about what happens to a non-national worker. let us say somebody comes to ireland for a few years to earn some money. what happens if that person is unfortunate enough to die unexpectedly? in the last month alone, there were two cases where three latvian workers and four polish workers were killed in two separate road accidents. obviously the grieving families wish the bodies to be returned home, but in certain cases – not necessarily those i have just mentioned – they were simply unable to afford to repatriate the bodies of their loved ones. i know of cases in ireland where local health boards, friends, neighbours, colleagues, etc. raised the necessary funds to bring the bodies home. however, i do not believe we should leave this situation to chance. as a union we facilitate the free movement of persons. therefore, either some fund should be set up to help grieving families if they find themselves unable to pay the costs of repatriation and if they are not covered by insurance, or perhaps we might look at the social welfare systems across europe to see if they could be used to help.
member of the commission. mr president, it is my pleasure to be here tonight for the debate on mrs in 't veld’s report on the communication on state aid for innovation. the report follows parliament’s very interesting and constructive opinion on the state aid action plan. i greatly appreciate the interest and involvement of meps in the process of reforming the rules on state aid. as you know, it is essential to have the right rules in order to help member states use state aid tools in a targeted and prudent way in support of our shared goals of growth and jobs. you all know the substance of the commission’s proposals on innovation. we emphasise – as mrs in 't veld rightly mentioned – that state aid is just one instrument among the many policy tools available to promote innovation in our economy. i could not agree more with mrs in 't veld on the key importance of structural reforms. state aid can help, but it is certainly not the only instrument – quite the contrary. we focus on concrete measures, not a general definition of innovation. in line with what mrs in 't veld said, we propose measures to support risk-taking and experimentation, as well as the business environment for innovation. priority, by the way, is given to smes and technological innovation, but again not exclusively. i am very pleased that parliament and a large majority of stakeholders are broadly supportive of the commission’s plans. mrs in 't veld, your report is of high quality and strikes a good balance. i would like to congratulate you and the committee on it. furthermore, the report comes exactly at the right moment. my services have just sent the member states a first working document on the new rules. the rapporteur has expressed clear views. however, there is a background to this. at the start of the austrian presidency i had an interesting discussion with the austrian minister for economic affairs. we talked about issues related to my portfolio in the context of the austrian presidency. he explained that innovation, research and development, as well as smes, were of high importance for the austrian presidency. he asked me to confirm that it would be possible to discuss those matters at the informal council meeting in the spring – that meeting took place in graz last friday and saturday, as you are aware. so i had promised that there would be something that we could discuss in detail. let us be quite clear: the working document that i have sent is a preliminary report to begin consultation. that is of paramount importance. we will take into account the conclusions, the outcome and the atmosphere of this debate, as parliament’s line in this state aid report is of key importance. the working document, which is available on the website, is really a first stage, paving the way for consultation. it will be revised and refined in the light of the comments we receive, including your comments and thoughts. i hope to finalise the new framework for research, development and innovation this autumn. i can assure you that in this process i will look with an open mind at parliament’s constructive comments on issues such as innovation aid for large companies as part of clusters and the very helpful typology and conditions you propose for distinguishing between day-to-day operations and activities relating to innovation. you suggest that certain limited forms of non-technological innovation should be eligible for state support for innovation. i am ready to look further at this, and i see your point, for example, as regards process and organisational innovation in services. i will give very careful consideration to all your useful comments and ideas. i do not claim to have the magic formula here, and i am glad that parliament is contributing so actively to the process to ensure that the final results give the highest possible level of added value in terms of european competitiveness.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very comprehensive and well-argued report. i broadly support her position, although i am not sure that i would like to replace the term ‘market failure’ with ‘market inefficiency’. market failure can and does occur; a case in point is that of peripheral regions where population is sometimes insufficient to support the market. while there may still be some inefficiencies in that market, it certainly does not reflect the whole picture. in particular, i support the rapporteur where she asks that the commission take into account state aid granted by the eu’s international competitors. i also support amendment 9, which is in the same vein. the state aid action plan says that we need to maintain a level playing field for all companies active in the single market. while this is in line with the treaty, we do not live in a vacuum: outside influences and policies have an impact on europe’s internal checks and balances. we must be able to respond to that challenge. one concern i have about the commission’s document is that it focuses strongly on aid for innovation by smes. we need to be careful that we do not discriminate against large firms because we could seriously hinder efforts in building networks and linkages of large multinational companies into eu innovation systems. we must be very vigilant that we do not encourage large firms to move their research and development and innovation activities outside the eu. i strongly support the suggestion that the eu should step up its efforts to meet the target of 3% of gdp investment in research and development. indeed, i wish to express my disappointment that my own country, ireland, has a much lower target. secondly, i support using state aid to encourage innovative research into renewable energy technologies, in particular supplying equipment to process biomass, biofuels and so on. there is an opportunity and i believe we can be world leaders here.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, i wish to congratulate mr titley on his excellent report. the estimated 2 500 lives a year that ecall could save throughout europe is significant and therefore it needs to be taken seriously as a means of curbing high levels of road fatalities. legislation to take this on board is vital in member states. it is vital that the emergency services, such as ambulances, police and fire services, arrive at the scene of an accident within the first hour – the golden hour – after the accident occurs. as of today, 134 people have lost their lives on irish roads since the beginning of this year. some of these lives could have been saved by ecall. unfortunately no technology can replace the driver’s fundamental responsibility to drive safely and adhere to the rules of the road. recently, a disproportionate number of those fatalities on irish roads have, sadly, been eastern european citizens who are working in ireland. the majority of these tragedies occurred on secondary roads and were the result of driving under the influence of alcohol, speed and, in my opinion, the fact that they were driving on the left-hand side of the road in ireland – a practice to which they are not accustomed. to compound the situation, many of them were in left-hand-drive cars which they had brought from their own homes in eastern europe. it is heartbreaking for any family to lose a member through a road accident, but it is even more tragic and traumatic when the repatriation of a broken body is needed. i earnestly call for an awareness programme to be put in place to alert non-irish nationals on this issue. eu member states badly need a cohesive, united road-safety policy, and the issue of which side of the road cars drive on in the member states must also be looked at closely at this stage. in conclusion, mechanically propelled vehicles have become weapons of mass destruction on our roads and we have become somewhat immune to that destruction. we are elected legislators. let us do all in our power to stop the carnage on our roads.
mr president, in ireland last week we saw the horrors of trafficking when a programme was broadcast on rte television about young women from romania being trafficked into the eu, and into ireland in particular. the programme showed that, unfortunately, ireland is one of a small number of countries that has failed to implement various eu directives on combating trafficking. it is important to point out that, as a cross-border activity, trafficking knows no borders. all european countries should implement all the various directives as required. i would call on the irish minister for justice to do just that, because trafficking is a terrible abuse. it is growing in reach and is affecting young girls and women in particular. it was a great shame to see that ireland was one of the countries not implementing the required directives, and i would hope that our government will change that and immediately implement them.
mr president, i would like to call on the council and the commission to take another look at the situation with regard to the sugar regime in the european union. in particular, they should now consider bringing in flexibility with regard to the compensation payments to sugar beet growers and sugar producers who have lost their livelihoods, and targeting those resources instead towards the creation of alternative energy crops and alternative fuels. this would require the commission to make a decision that compensation can be given for new processing methods without actually taking away the structure of the manufacturing capacity that is available for these alternative fuels in many member states. that can help to eliminate or to reduce our dependence on oil, it can also contribute towards a cleaner environment and, most importantly of all, it can offer many farmers around the european union a valuable crop to grow, which would guarantee them economic security for the future.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i wish to congratulate warmly my group colleague, mrs poli bortone, upon reaching this stage of negotiations with what seems like a fruitful result for consumers. it was an extremely arduous task. at a time when the average eu citizen is getting heavier and up to 27% of european men, 32% of european women and a staggering one-quarter of europe’s children are now obese, i warmly welcome the european union’s initiative in tackling obesity through a very important first step: the addressing of nutrition and health claims on food. for far too long consumers have been influenced by marketing and advertising, much of which was without any basis. at present, consumers are faced with a deluge of marketing ploys in order to entice them to purchase food products. often, the nutritional health claims on food products are not entirely accurate or honest. a varied and balanced diet is a prerequisite for good health and individual products have a relative importance in the context of the overall diet. now we are in the process of voting through a system that will provide confidence to consumers on a product-by-product basis, with nutritional and health claims based on scientific evidence. ill health as a result of obesity is costing taxpayers millions of euro each year and exerting extreme pressure on health services. the health problems associated with obesity are well known: heart disease, strokes, high cholesterol and diabetes top the list. common reasons cited are overeating and lack of exercise, but the problem is far wider than that. immediate action must be taken. this is only the tip of the iceberg for european citizens. in tandem with clear and substantiated nutritional health claims we also need to focus on organising a general information campaign on nutrition issues and the importance of acquiring healthy eating habits in a timely fashion. today’s consumer is under pressure to prepare meals quickly. we are becoming more and more dependent on processed foods. i also welcome the increased support to smes. i am delighted that they will get support and appropriate technical guidance and tools to help them in due time.
mr president, i should like to point out to the commissioner that the irish government has mass-medicated my people with disodium monofluorophosphate for 40 years. the fluoride put in irish water is a toxic waste. although it is added in levels that seem small, it accumulates in our bodies over time. the practice of water fluoridation has blighted the health of the irish people with conditions like skeletal fluorosis: fluoride seeks calcium, especially the bones. it also causes conditions like a hypo- or underactive thyroid; fluoride was once used as a medication to suppress the thyroid. it causes dental fluorosis, damage to the tooth enamel, which is symptomatic of fluoride poisoning in childhood. a recent study revealed that 40% of young irish adults demonstrate permanent and unsightly tooth mottling and staining related to dental fluorosis. these are just some of the conditions that a steady accumulation of fluoride has inflicted on the irish people. in a review of the water fluoridation policy by the irish government a few years ago, 90% of the public submissions called for an end to this mass-medication. fluoride, as we use it in ireland, is a toxic waste taken from the scrubbers of an artificial fertilizer factory, which also contain poison like mercury and cadmium. it is unthinkable that we in this parliament will allow fluoride – a toxin – to be included in a list of acceptable vitamins and minerals. it is neither a vitamin nor a mineral. in food and water it is a curse. to avoid confusion, fluoride in toothpaste and mouthwash is considered a cosmetic and is not affected by my amendment. it only affects fluoride in food and water. i beg my fellow members to help the irish people and vote for that amendment.
mr president, in the context of the concerns and wider debate on combating obesity and other chronic diseases, the nutrition and health claims regulation, based on nutrient profiling, will have absolutely no impact. it will in fact do damage from a health education point of view, as nutrient profiles are solely based on the composition of a food or food category and do not take into consideration the consumption of the food or food category or consumers’ individual habits. the effect of a food containing a substance such as sugar or salt at a low or medium level, but consumed in great quantities, is much more damaging than that of a food containing a substance at a high level but consumed only occasionally. interestingly, scientists have now established that obese children and young people do not actually consume more junk food than children of healthy body weight, but their lifestyle contains a serious deficit of physical activity. establishing objective and science-based nutrient profiles may prove an impossible task and the european food safety authority will have its work cut out. against that background, any policies based on such profiles are likely to be incoherent and lead to arbitrary decisions. it is a central tenet of the lisbon agenda that legislation should be simple, clear and enforceable. instead of accepting compromises for the sake of political expediency, we should send this monday morning directive back for redrafting under the better regulation initiative. we should ensure that it is in step with scientific best practice in this area, with minimum red tape, that it is sme- and consumer-friendly and, most importantly, that it does what it says on the tin, i.e. it becomes a tool to help combat obesity and other chronic diseases. with regard to the regulation on addition of vitamins and minerals and the so-called ‘certain other substances’ to food, i feel very strongly that mass medication of the population at large, through the addition of substances to publicly supplied basic necessities such as drinking water, is ethically questionable and should not be permitted, particularly if it cannot be scientifically proven that the health of sensitive groups within the population is not adversely affected by such an addition. for example, the addition of fluoride to drinking water has a disproportionately negative effect on bottle-fed babies and young children, as their reconstituted milk formula made from that public drinking water equates to their total diet.
mr president, i should like to welcome the commissioner. i should also like to inform my colleague, mr stubb, that there was more than one group leader in the chamber for the duration of the debate. when we look at what has happened in europe and when we consider all the words, emotions and print pages that have been published on the future plan for europe, one key element is missed. that is that what the people across the european union have said, not just in the referenda on the constitution but also in previous european elections, was a cry for help. they wanted a greater understanding and a greater knowledge of what europe is. the people we meet on the streets every day are not afraid of europe or of the european union. they are not even afraid of further development or enlargement of the european union. however, there is a lack of engagement with the european union and often a lack of trust about where they see the european union going. when we speak about plan d for democracy and so on and we put forward these plans, they must be based on what people want. many of my colleagues have spoken about the blame game and who is more to blame, because president barroso did not say this or a government did not say that. let us be realistic. some member states have agreed a text on the constitution for the future of europe and it is ultimately up to them to deliver on their agreement, to make sure they convince their people. i would never dream of going to france, holland or germany and telling the voters there what they should be doing. it is up to the representatives of those countries themselves to be realistic and not hypocritical, not to play party politics and hide behind doublespeak. never was that more highlighted than with the services directive. governments previously agreed in the secrecy of the council to have a services directive, it was put together and then suddenly pressure was applied and they all backed off and said it must be changed. ultimately that played into the hands of parliament, because it made us look strong. we could take the concerns of citizens on board and force a change in those amendments. plan d must be about proper debate and engagement with people; it must be about respecting the diversity in the european union; it must be about giving definition to european union. but, most importantly, it must be about debunking the myths, not just those in the media but the ones we ourselves perpetuate.
in writing. the parliament has voted to eliminate unsubstantiated claims on foods and drinks, especially products marketed to children. the eu was concerned that a food would, for example, be advertised as 'low fat' which might have lots of sugar or salt in it or conversely as 'low salt' which was high in something else. the aim is truth in advertising. in an ideal world it would be achievable but the problem is that producers must give evidence of health claims made for their product. scientific evidence as understood by the legislation involves expensive trialling which will cost more than small producers can afford. another problem is that though the nutritional profiles that will be required by law on all products will be a step in the right direction they will fail to distinguish the quality of the fat, sugar and salt in the food or drink. the nutritional profile will not distinguish between the bad fats that damage us and good fats necessary for health and growth, and similarly with salts and sugars. for myself, i want a complete list of ingredients and a mention of any nutrient-damaging process like irradiation, bleaching, saturation etc. to which the ingredients were exposed.
in writing. because of the rejection of all amendments which would have prevented european illegal fishing in the waters of western sahara i have voted against this resolution. i am concerned that this agreement in its current unamended form will allow european boats (including irish boats) to fish in the waters of western sahara, a territory illegally occupied by morocco. if the agreement is implemented, the eu will be violating international law and helping to prolong a conflict which has already lasted for 30 years. the international court of justice and successive un resolutions have made it clear that western sahara is africa’s last colony, with a right to self-determination for its people. morocco is not recognised as the administrative power. it has been clearly stated that no other country has a right to exploit the saharawi resources without the permission of the saharawi people.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his presentation and congratulate him on his work on this very difficult topic, one on which i have had many discussions with him in the recent past. i would firstly like to make my key point and then we can discuss the wider issue. with regard to romania and the situation of children in romanian institutions, orphanages and foster homes, more work needs to be done; more action needs to be taken to treat those children as individual human beings with human rights. if sometimes that means allowing for international adoptions, then that should be the case. i know of many parents in ireland who are willing to and wish to adopt children from romania, especially children with mental and physical disabilities, and want to bring them to loving and caring homes in ireland, but because of the difficulties they run into major problems. so i would ask the romanian authorities to look at that again. however, we are back to where we are because of the statement from the commission today and also because of the underhand moves taking place in certain capitals around europe to try to prevent or slow down the accession of bulgaria and romania. let us not forget that this is not just about those two countries living up to commitments that they made to us under the copenhagen criteria and under their accession agreements. it is also up to us to live up to our commitments. we held out the hope and the desire and the wish that those countries could become part of the european union. the first time we said to them: no, you are not ready, you cannot come in with the ten other countries on 1 may 2004; you have more work to do. they have progressed greatly in the recent past in changing laws, in amending systems that are decades old, to try and bring about a more realistic approach. it is now up to us to be generous in our praise of those countries, to give them genuine encouragement and not lectures on how their systems should operate, to give them our experience with the open method of coordination, under which you look at practices in other countries and take the best of them and try to achieve the best possible result. we all know what the basics are. the basics are the rule of law, the rule of democracy, the separation of powers, the rights of the individual and human rights and fundamental freedoms. everything else can be sorted out by simple legislation. at one stage people said that politics is not that important. politics is important because it affects people’s lives. we in this chamber are often criticised for not being radical enough in our opinions and our viewpoints. what we need to do today is not just to tell the governments of bulgaria and romania to continue with the work they are doing and achieve the goal they are trying to achieve; not only should we speak to the governments of our own countries and say they must be clear and even-handed and give a real response to those countries; we must speak directly to the citizens and the people of bulgaria and romania and say to them that within the european union they have a home, they have a right, they have an entitlement, and we will defend those rights and those entitlements for them. (applause)
mr president, this afternoon a very important event took place in constanza county in romania: the official opening of protected homes for over 100 people who currently live in unsatisfactory conditions. it came about as a partnership between the local county council, the romanian government and two irish ngos – focus on romania and the aurelia trust. there has been a lot of debate – indeed, dispute – in this house about how romania is caring for its most vulnerable children and young adults with handicaps. if that focus has helped to improve – as i believe it has – the plight of these people, then it will all have been worthwhile, even if it has upset the authorities. last week a report by mental disability rights international caused huge concern and outrage because it outlined serious abuses in romanian institutions. today, that report is being discredited by some, perhaps too sweepingly. the problem of trafficking has been identified by the commission, and all member states – including my own country, ireland – need to play their part to stop this cruel and horrific trade in vulnerable human beings. perhaps, as commissioner rehn has outlined, we will resolve all these problems by october 2006, but these two countries must accede.
i would also like to thank the commissioner for her initiative to date and her efforts in this regard, but i would like to ask her if it is the intention of the commission to reduce the roaming charges completely? in the internal market procedure, why should there be a difference? we should have the same charges throughout europe. this would, i believe, be the remit of the commission and i would expect that to be the intention.
i should like to express my thanks to the commissioner. roaming prices for a four-minute call still vary from as little as 20 cents for a finnish consumer calling from sweden to eur 13.05 for a maltese consumer in latvia. revenues from international roaming charges total about eur 10 billion and regulation should save the consumer between 40% and 60%. could the commissioner confirm that it is her intention that whatever regulation is needed will pass into law by summer of next year?
i should like to thank the commissioner. however, considering that to date the prohibition of these unwanted sites has not been so successful, what confidence do you have that your proposals will eradicate such undesirable sites from the internet?
commissioner, you cannot control what is on the web, but you can control access in the following way. with the advent of broadband, the internet is on all the time. a lot of new computers have just one password to turn on the computer and do not have a separate password to control access to the internet. therefore children can wander in, broadband is on and they can access the internet straight away. if there was simple control on access and more passwords on computers themselves, then parents, schools and others would have greater control. i ask you to look at that issue, particularly as broadband means the internet is on all the time.
madam president, in 2001, during the bse and cjd scares and outbreaks, the commission implemented a temporary ban on feed of animal and fish origin being fed to ruminants, pending thorough scientific risk assessment of the regulation. in accordance with the precautionary principle and as a measure to promote consumer confidence, a policy of zero tolerance of processed animal proteins and meat and animal bonemeal in animal feed was put in place. and although no case of tse in fish had ever been discovered, the feeding of fishmeal to ruminants was also subjected to a temporary ban. this initial six-month ban has been extended on a rolling basis ever since, despite a categorical commission announcement in 2004 that there was no risk of tse occurrence, let alone transmission, from fishmeal fed to ruminants and that the policy of zero tolerance of meat and bone spicules in animal feed should be lifted. the commission argued that this zero tolerance policy could not be implemented, since the technical detection methods for identifying processed animal protein had not previously been sufficiently accurate to take account of the so-called adventitious presence of small amounts of protein from small birds, mammals and rodents accidentally caught in the harvesting process. the impossibility of distinguishing these proteins and bone spicules, which do not pose a tse risk from proteins of ruminant origin which could contain bse-carrying prions, resulted in a number of high-profile, extremely costly, wasteful and unnecessary withdrawals from shipments and, more controversially, beet-based animal feed, owing to this harmless and unavoidable adventitious presence of non-ruminant proteins. the proposal before us is intended to amend and update the regulation. in particular, the categorisation of countries according to existing bse risk, surveillance and monitoring, specified risk material, giving a permanent legal basis for breeding programmes for resistance to tses, giving member states the option to keep bse cohort animals in their herd and of course revising the feedback. given the protracted uncertainty that the failure to come to a decision on lifting the feed ban has caused to farmers and industry, i sincerely hope that this dossier will be adopted at first reading. i welcome the compromise reached and support the provisions relating to the possible lifting of the feed ban, because the provision is based on sound science. i believe that there are sufficient safeguards in place to protect all interests. furthermore, i feel it is important to underline that protein is a necessary component of animal diets and the current feed ban is placing us in a precarious position regarding protein supply for animal diets. in europe, we are only 23% self-sufficient in proteins. most of our higher quality proteins, for example brazilian soya, are shipped vast distances from countries where the sustainability debate is now raging. while there is a debate on the ethics about how animals are being fed, it must be borne in mind that the alternatives sometimes pose even bigger ethical questions. the fact remains that the food industry in the eu is protein deficient. i am pleased that an agreement has been reached on feeding fishmeal to young calves that have high protein requirements. we cannot be driven by emotion; otherwise our credibility as legislators will be severely undermined. scientific rigour is at the core of this regulation. we should respect the undisputed scientific consensus that fishmeal poses no risk of tse. in conclusion, as regards setting the tolerance thresholds for adventitious presence of bone spicules and technically unavoidable contamination, it is imperative that we apply scientific rigour through standing committees under the comitology procedure. this procedure is not perfect, but it is more responsive than codecision and ensures informed scientific analysis and risk assessment, rather than risking emotive concerns guiding european decisions in technical areas. for this reason, i cannot support amendment 57, which i believe would threaten the chances of reaching a hard-won first reading agreement in the interests of all concerned. but having said this, as parliamentarians, we should exercise fully and vigilantly our right to scrutinise the outcomes of comitology meetings and to hold the commission to account when their standing committee experts’ decisions exceed the powers conferred on them by the tse regulation. madam president, may i send my best wishes to mrs roth-behrendt for a speedy recovery and thank her for her long-term interest in this important issue. thank you for your patience.
madam president, i was a journalist at the height of the bse crisis, so i have very vivid memories of the unfolding of that story and its impact not just on politicians but on consumer confidence. it was the story of the century in its impact on farming and how we do our business and on the animal feed industry. i recall interviewing a feed compounder at that time who had no idea where most of his ingredients were coming from, because the word traceability had not been invented. i think perhaps we forget how serious the situation was. in ireland now, we are looking forward to not slaughtering cohorts when we discover a bse case in a herd on farms, but many farms have suffered as a result of our more stringent policy in this regard. fishmeal is an important protein source and i think that fear alone should not keep it out of the food chain. as has already been said, europe produces only about one-fifth of its protein needs and we import soya to fill that gap. much of that is genetically modified and it is ironic that european consumers are concerned about gm and yet we have to rely on gm protein for much of our animal feed. zero tolerance is a big issue for the feed industry and for farmers. it has caused huge problems and is unworkable. in my view, amendment 50 is better than amendment 57 when it comes to the adventitious and technically unavoidable contamination of feed ingredients. we need science to rule here and we need scientific risk assessments of the level of adventitious protein sources in feed. i think the feed industry itself would welcome clarity on that, because too often zero tolerance has given rise to huge costs as well as concern and confusion within that industry. we are ten years down the road. i think it is good that tonight we are debating in less emotive terms than we would have ten years ago, but i would urge that people look at the science of the debate, rather than the emotion of the past, when they are voting on this very important report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the böge report but would like to record my concern about certain elements of the budget agreement which may have a negative impact on the single market. in particular, the possibility of using 20% modulation in the cap to fund rural development without having to meet the agreed rules on co-financing and spending guidelines is regrettable and could lead to a distortion of competition between member states. it is an attack on the cap and is effectively a move to renationalise agriculture policy.
in writing. europe's transport system is expected to see an increase of road freight by 2013 of more than 60%. the results will be greater congestion and environmental degradation, more accidents and a loss of competitiveness of european industry, which must rely, for the management of its supply chains, on cost-efficient transportation. in this situation, a greater reliance on intermodality is necessary. in my own constituency of munster, i have just learned that the port of limerick is to lose substantial facilities through sale of important land. this will cause an increase of heavy road traffic in the limerick city area. i see my vote today as a support for not only maintaining existing water-borne freight traffic, but also for moving it from road to water. i know that there are no marco polo projects in ireland, but i intend to urge the interested parties in munster and ireland to look for projects that are acceptable under marco polo.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, firstly, i welcome the change in the scheduling of debates to allow the human rights report to be debated this afternoon in the primetime slot. i want to thank the chairmen of the various groups for that. it is recognition of the importance of this report. this year, we have a very different report, in style and in content. we are essentially undertaking an experiment. parliament has agreed to change the format of its human rights report to have a much tighter focus on issues where the eu has a direct impact or influence and to focus on eu human rights policy, in particular on guidelines that have been set out and the performance of the three institutions in implementing those guidelines. we are doing this on the understanding that the council will work closely with us to produce a common and unified human rights report for the eu. that report will provide the general assessment of human rights across the globe and of many of the broader questions and challenges, as well as the more local challenges. in the past, as you know, parliament and the council have both essentially duplicated each other’s work to a certain extent by producing similar reports. certainly, as rapporteur last year, i saw a huge amount of duplication between the report produced by parliament and the one the council produced. however, if the council does not significantly consult and include parliament when putting its report together in the coming year, we will have to revert to our previous approach. i appeal to the council, therefore, to make the new formula work so that we can have a common, strong, unified human rights report, representing a european view on human rights, that we can send to all corners of the world. parliament can then focus on the job that it was elected to do: assessing the performance of the council and the commission on behalf of the people. finally, i want to congratulate mr howitt on doing an excellent job this year under new and different circumstances. the fact that we only have 14 amendments to the report tomorrow is a reflection on the work he has done. i can assure him that he is unlikely to get the kind of shock that other rapporteurs have received the night before or on the day of the vote on the human rights report.
rapporteur. – mr president, before going into the substance i would like to welcome the presence of the commission and the council. i particularly appreciate the efforts of successive presidencies to find a solution to the outstanding problems linked to the original commission proposal on the dceci. when debating this instrument, our overriding concern must be the interests of the developing countries, and in particular the poorest sections of their populations. the remit of the committee on development is to represent their interests at european union level and to ensure that they are kept on the eu’s political agenda. that is why we argue in favour of a specific instrument for the needs of the developing countries, namely poverty alleviation with true economic cooperation and sustainable development, and not just a default instrument for all countries not covered by any other instrument. i believe that this view is now widely accepted and i hope that the commission now accepts it also. this parliament obviously shares the commission’s desire for greater efficiency, simplification and flexibility in the legislative domain, but cannot allow this to happen at the expense of its own competences and of democracy itself. parliament essentially exercises its competences in the policy domain at three levels: determination of political priorities – which means codecision at policy-setting level, monitoring implementation, and budgetary powers. those three levels are complementary and parliament, being the only institution directly elected by the european citizens, should strive to have a greater say in all three of them. we should not, however, accept an increase in parliamentary powers at one level at the expense of our existing powers at another level. codecision is not negotiable. parliament fought for many years to get it and it is now enshrined in the treaty. i am pleased to hear the commissioner’s assurances on codecision here today. may i say to the presidency that the difference with the dceci is that it seeks to replace 16 codecided regulations with one regulation. i am absolutely amazed that the commission and council can so easily agree on taking away the role of parliament. we should also not permit the human rights instrument, which parliament has consistently been calling for, to be used to make us relinquish our policy-setting powers. human rights are too important to be used as a bargaining chip in interinstitutional negotiations. the ball is now in the commission’s court. my proposal to make the development cooperation instrument the single administrative and procedural regulation for development cooperation not only gives the commission the administrative simplification and flexibility it seeks, but also ensures that policy implementation is kept apart from the unpredictability of political life. priorities may change rapidly, according to our political agendas and those of our partners, but a procedural regulation will ensure that implementation can go on unhindered. as rapporteur on the dceci, i am fully determined to continue the intensive work that has gone into it and to ensure that it is in place as a procedural regulation well before the end of the year. now that the commission has recognised that the policy content for development cooperation must be established by codecision, it is time for it to submit formal legislative proposals on geographical and thematic priorities, so that parliament and council can finally start the process of legislating. both the geographical and the thematic content are close to the heart of the european parliament and require a thorough debate. we are talking about priorities for our cooperation with latin america, the middle east, central asia, the far east and south africa; our priorities in the fields of human and social development; sustainable management of natural resources such as water and energy; the environment and the role of non-state actors. these require a full and proper debate in parliament. since we know that the debate on such vast and sensitive issues will be difficult and the time is now running out, i want to inform the council and the commission that the committee on development is setting up a working group to discuss the policy content. this will speed up negotiations within parliament and with the other institutions once we have received formal proposals. as i said at the beginning, we are talking about cooperation with hundreds of millions of poor people in the world. they need our continued support. for that, we need a legal base. it is up to the commission to propose it in time. i welcome the tone and content of the commissioner’s contribution here today, but there is a lot of work to be done and i hope we will soon get down to doing it.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, i should like to congratulate my colleague, mr mitchell, for the work that he has done on this report. there are a number of points that i wish to make today. i believe that it is imperative for parliament to retain the power of codecision on strategic priorities, geographical and thematic aid programmes. it must also apply for the multiannual financial framework. it is essential that we do not allow the european commission to introduce a single instrument in such matters. i believe that, in keeping with the millennium development goals, the scope of eu development aid should be restricted to the developing countries only. on the question of aid funding, i believe that the budget support must be approved by the court of auditors and the parliament of the partner country. any suspension of aid must be decided by the council of ministers by qualified majority after the european parliament, but we must ensure that any financial aid and debt relief is organised in such a way as to ensure that some corrupt african leaders, without mentioning names, cannot rearm themselves to bolster highly questionable regimes. the eu is the world’s biggest aid donor and is responsible for 55% of all development aid. unfortunately, much of that aid is of very little use to developing countries unless we also make trade work for them. i propose a significant boost in aid for trade, which would be aimed at helping developing countries help themselves by enabling them to turn market opportunities into reality. i believe it is vital that the european parliament does not lose its joint legislative power with the council on the issue of development policy.
deputising for the author. – i would like to thank the presidency for that reply. i noted recently that a colleague in this house suggested that there should be a tax on texts and emails. if we really want to get people’s backs up and alienate young people from the european union, that would be the way to go! i would like to ask the minister a question in relation to his response. he said that the issue of a direct tax was on the table. can he confirm to the house that this is no longer on the table? or is it still on the table for discussion and can it arise again for discussion in the near future?
do i gather then, that the reason we are doing it is because it is good for civil servants? do you not think it strange that the countries that do not want to harmonise tax are the countries that have the highest growth rate, the lowest unemployment, the highest investment in infrastructure and the lowest personal tax? does it not strike you as strange that they are the countries that do not want to harmonise tax and, in fact, do not want to interfere in other peoples’ taxation systems? the countries that have high tax, high unemployment and low growth are the ones that want to harmonise tax. it seems extraordinary to me that we do not want to follow the countries that are economically successful at the moment, but want to bring in a tax system that is unsuccessful in other parts of europe.
i thank the presidency for that reply. i understand that economic growth is projected to be 2.3% in the european union and 2.1% in the euro area in 2006, up from 1.6% and 1.3% respectively in 2005. but would the president-in-office share my concerns that growth rates do not appear to be converting into forecasted increases in employment rates? whereas i understand that one million jobs are expected to be created over the next 12 months, the unemployment rate would still remain stubbornly high, at about 8.4%. do you share my concerns that economic growth is not converting to jobs? what steps are being taken to deal with that issue?
mr president, i am from ireland. these proposals relate to natural disasters, such as fires, droughts and floods. in ireland, thankfully, we do not have forest fires or droughts; we have lots of rain – sometimes too much – but no major floods. therefore, the galeote quecedo report is of little relevance to ireland: it is heavily oriented towards the mediterranean. i have no problem with that. if we are a european community we must support each other, while at the same time respecting the principle of subsidiarity. european solidarity is the spirit that should underpin all our responses to initiatives such as the reports we are debating today. the solidarity fund is crucial. these reports are well drafted. in the galeote quecedo report the emphasis is on prevention, research and risk management. it also proposes identifying vulnerable areas so that preventive measures can be put in place well in advance. what is crucially important is that the environmental issue should be taken into consideration. many of the environmental problems we are now encountering are caused by climate change and they are self-inflicted. droughts and floods in particular are the direct result of environmental neglect and mismanagement: they are manmade. the eu is supposed to be leading the way in terms of environmental change, but at the same time the reality is that we are still destroying the world’s environment and we are doing it on a daily basis: greenhouse gas emission levels, for example, are being ignored by many eu countries, including, sadly, my own country. the sooner we, as a world community, wake up to this reality, the less will be the need to produce and to adopt the crisis-management measures that we are debating and, hopefully, adopting today. i congratulate mr galeote quecedo and mr berend once again on a job well done.
in writing. in supporting this report, i am keenly aware that the eu stands accused of paying lip service to human rights, ignoring abuses by major trading partners, arguing for un reforms it will not implement, and ignoring international legal obligations at home whilst preaching them abroad. it is hypocrisy that colombia gets trade advantages for workers' rights when it has the world's highest rate of murders of trade unionists and that eu officials in zimbabwe are ignorant of key eu human rights guidelines. it is even worse that eu governments fail to practice what they preach. nine countries, including ireland, germany and portugal, refuse to sign the un optional protocol to the convention against torture. eleven countries have not signed the council of europe convention on action against trafficking in human beings. seven countries are considering opt-outs from the jurisdiction of the international criminal court. i fully support the conclusions by my colleague richard howitt and his call for a unified eu human rights report identifying an annual list of countries of particular concern, a sliding scale of sanctions against abuser countries, removing the national veto for their agreement, implementing the human rights and democracy clause in the eu's international agreements and introducing human rights impact assessments for eu actions abroad.
mr president, taiwan is a sovereign nation and its people have worked hard to become a major economic player in asia. through this same hard work and willingness to interact peacefully with the rest of the world, it is becoming a significant economic player globally. yet taiwan’s progress in joining the world’s community in other spheres is blighted by the people’s republic of china. not allowing taiwan to join the world health organisation – how sad is that? it is pathetic that the world health organisation and other countries cooperate with this embargo on taiwan. hopefully, the eu will get the nerve to say to china, ‘we love you, we will trade with you, but we will not cooperate with you or say you are right when you are wrong’.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for coming and for starting what is a very important debate, despite the fact that i would not agree with some of his ideas and conclusions. the essence of the best idea and the best debate is when you have divergent opinions, coming together to try and garner the best from the situation. a number of key elements that were mentioned by the prime minister in his speech are deserving of more in-depth analysis and comment. however, if i may be so bold, i would like to touch on two or three elements. with regard to the situation of whether or not the people want more europe or less europe, i would never dare to speak on behalf of all the people of europe. however, i can speak on behalf of the people in my constituency in the south-west of ireland, whom i met last weekend. out of the 4500 people i met last week in ireland, 3000 of them brought up issues of european concern that they wanted to see solved. amazingly enough, for all the issues that they brought up, they saw that the best way of getting a solution was at a european level – not at a national level – because they saw there was a bigger picture involved. these issues involved the environment, fisheries, free trade and so on. they saw their best hope of advancement on all of these issues coming from a european level. people do want more europe in certain areas, but if you tell people in the world, or people in europe, or people in my country, that they will be part of a european army; that their taxes will be determined by brussels; that they will have no say with regard to what kind of a police force they will have, they will reject it out of hand. this is not because they dispute the argument or the veracity or the genuineness of the argument put forward, but because they see those as red-line issues. they see those as issues that are best dealt with by the people in their own country. one of the most important issues we have to discover is not to go down the simple road of saying ‘you are either for a federal europe or against it’. personally, i am against a federal europe. the kind of model that has been successful for europe has been one that we have created ourselves. it is not something that has been copied from some other model. it has been a creation out of necessity – the necessity that we now face before us. you touched on it yourself, prime minister, during your own questions concerning economics and other areas. the discussion is now taking place. decisions will have to be taken at some stage in the short term, not in the long term, and such decisions will subsequently need to be properly implemented. the foreign ministers in vienna last week were correct when they said it was wrong to call this document a constitution, because it is not a true constitution in its right form. call it a treaty for a new europe, but not a constitution for a new europe.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i am glad that we have an opportunity for debate with the council and commission on the guantánamo bay detention centre. guantánamo has become, in publicity terms, an open sore for many people in relation to all that is negative about the so-called war on terrorism. fighting terrorism and minimising the threat of terrorism is necessary but not easy and mistakes have been and continue to be made. worryingly, the aspect of the struggle to combat terrorism that we are losing is the battle to win public support – the hearts and minds of large populations in the arab world in particular. as a result, many moderate-thinking muslims see certain efforts being made to combat terrorism as adding to the problem and fuelling fundamentalist thinking, rather than providing an effective solution. guantánamo is in this category. i have called for and have signed a joint urgency motion, passed by all groups in february 2005, calling for the closure of the guantánamo bay detention centre. that was a short, clear and balanced motion, basically stating three strong messages: firstly, it called for the closure of the detention centre and for fair trials for detainees consistent with international law and standards; secondly, it condemned the use of torture and ill-treatment and the need for conformity with international law in all detention centres; and thirdly, it stressed that contemporary terrorism continues to pose a threat to basic human rights and to our populations. a delegation of meps from various groups recently visited the guantánamo bay detention centre. in relation to our joint motion for a resolution, i believe that those meps that have just returned from guantánamo should be given an opportunity to contribute to that motion and improve its accuracy, effectiveness and credibility. for that reason, i hope that other groups will support my proposal tomorrow on behalf of the ppe-de group to postpone the vote on a resolution until the next strasbourg session in june. a few weeks will give us an opportunity to produce a motion calling for and justifying the closure of guantánamo bay, in a form that can be supported by all of the main groups, with increased credibility in the build up to the eu-us summit in late june.
mr president, we read about this being green week, and the focus of this year’s green week is biodiversity loss. last year it was climate change, and both climate change and biodiversity loss are the two greatest environmental challenges facing us. i rise to protest at the lack of time given to debate the issue of biodiversity loss during this part-session, as this is green week. as parliamentarians we should have acknowledged green week and the biodiversity loss focus by having a debate on that issue. we have the birds directive, the habitats directive, the common agricultural policy, the common fisheries policy, the structural funds, 18 000 natura 2000 sites, plus a network, and yet we have no joined-up thinking in relation to this issue. we have invasive alien species here, over 40% of the eu’s species – both flora and fauna – are under threat, and yet we have no debate on this issue during a designated green week. i protest, and i would like you, mr vice-president, to pass on my protestations to the president of parliament.
it is good that we have recognised the need to test children’s medicine specifically for children. once this principle is established we must go further to refine testing. childhood is not static. the biology of a baby is quite different from the biology of a teenager. we must also insist on periodic scientific reviews. the long-term effects on children must be studied not just to look at accumulative effect, as we do with adult medicines, but to look at the particular effect the medicine has at different stages of a child’s development and on the health of the young adult they become. ritalin is the most widely prescribed drug for children in the us. only now, after almost 20 years of use, have we realised the permanent damage ritalin has done to the development of the cardiovascular system of the young adult the child user becomes. thousands, even millions of adults will face adulthood with cardiovascular disease from a paediatric medicine tested for its effect on behaviour, not hearts. scientific testing must be specific, in this case for children, and must be updated. otherwise, we find out the bad news when it is too late.
mr president, under rule 132 in connection with rule 170 i rise to propose, on behalf of the ppe-de group, that the votes on the guantánamo motions be postponed for two weeks until the next part-session in strasbourg. the reason is that a delegation of four meps from different political parties has just returned from a visit to guantánamo. unfortunately, they have not had an opportunity to contribute to the resolution before the house today. my group believes that by proposing this short postponement, the members concerned will have time to brief their groups on their visit and help produce an improved text calling for the closure of guantánamo bay that, hopefully, all groups can support. this text will thus receive maximum support and will give credibility to parliament in the build-up to the eu-us summit at the end of june. (applause)
in writing. in view of the importance of the report, i voted for it, but i do not subscribe to the reference to tax harmonisation contained in an otherwise excellent report. as there was only a single vote available to us, i could not register my concern on the ‘harmonisation’ proposal separate to the final vote.
in writing. i support the content of this report, however i do not feel that amendment 21 proposed by the committee on employment and social affairs, which calls on the european commission to identify measures to coordinate member states' fiscal policy and taxation, has any place in a report which purports to encourage innovation and competitiveness; on the contrary it is only by fostering a greater sense of competitiveness between smes and other businesses across the eu in terms of their differing fiscal obligations and other variable market conditions that a truly competitive and innovative market will become a reality for all european businesses.
in writing. i believe that the thrust of paragraph 46 is misplaced given that the eu's institutions and its member states have entered into agreements regarding the status of additional languages and their agreed use as working languages in these institutions, notably the irish language. financial measures were put in place to finance these initiatives and they should be honoured accordingly.
mr president, the current round of wto negotiations is witnessing a steady erosion of the eu policy that has always been committed to ensuring food security for eu citizens. concurrently, there is the stringent and indeed very necessary requirement for eu-produced food to meet exceptionally high standards. when the food and veterinary office of the eu was established, part of its mission statement was to contribute towards the maintenance of confidence in the safety of food offered to the eu consumer. a recent study conducted in brazil by the irish farmers’ association revealed totally inadequate foot and mouth disease controls, nonexistent traceability, widespread environmental degradation and social exploitation. why, in view of those facts and the fact that the united states, japan, australia, south korea and new zealand do not accept fresh beef imports from brazil, do the eu and the food and veterinary office continue to approve such imports? we need to ensure food security for eu citizens and we need the assurance of quality and traceability of imports, consistent with the standards required of eu producers.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i warmly welcome this proposed directive, the intention of which is to ensure that groundwater quality is monitored and evaluated across europe in a harmonised way. it sets out an inherently flexible approach to establishing quality criteria, taking account of local characteristics and allowing for further improvements. i welcome the measures established in the directive, which lays down mandatory criteria for assessing the chemical status of groundwater and for identifying trends in the pollution of groundwater bodies, while also introducing measures for protecting groundwater from indirect pollution. i agree with the rapporteur that the directive should be made more ambitious and effective. in many parts of the european union and ireland where there are no rivers or lakes, or these are polluted, groundwater is often the only source of fresh water. we are fortunate in my country to have fresh water resources, and must ensure that future generations have access to the same quality and supply of that water. as we develop, pressure on that resource has increased and will continue to do so. groundwater is a resource that we need to protect because once it is polluted it cannot be used for many years. this generation – or any other for that matter – has no right to destroy or deplete such a rare and precious resource.
mr president, i would like to emphasise a few points about groundwater which we have to keep in mind, even at this stage. the distinction between groundwater and surface water is not always clear. water is not neatly compartmentalised in every location, so where these sources of water are linked, where they mingle, polluted surface water will pollute groundwater and vice versa. the pollution of ground and surface water is a concern in my constituency of munster, particularly in view of environmental disasters like the deserted tailings pond in silvermines, county tipperary, the red mud and salt lake ponds which get bigger every day at aughinish, an alumina extraction factory in limerick, and kilworth, north cork, where liquid toxic waste is dumped in trenches and left to seep into the earth. another concern is that irish governments have systematically polluted surface and groundwater for the past 40 years in the water fluoridation programme, with the daily addition of hexafluorosilic acid, a bio-accumulating toxin. but there is another issue that we should take seriously. in this proposed directive, we deal with quality standards and pollutant levels in groundwater. however, we seem to waive sensible levels if the pollutant occurs naturally in groundwater. no matter how much of the pollutant is in the water, we seem to want to call that the baseline, the acceptable level. this will not work. just because something is natural, it does not necessarily mean it is healthy. this mistake was made in india in 1970s and 1980s, in attempting to solve water shortages. international development funds were spent boring a large number of deep wells. the wells supplied a lot of water, but babies in the vicinity of many of those wells were born with congenital bone malformations. skeletal diseases began to afflict the children and the adult populations too. many of the wells had to be closed. the water was natural, but that did not make it safe. it had a significant content of fluoride that had no time to filter through the layers of mineral rock, which would have bound the fluoride to stabilizing minerals like calcium, making them less toxic and less absorbable. a hundred years ago, people thought that water that was highly, if naturally, radioactive, was good and flocked to spas to drink and bathe in it. at first it made them feel wonderful, then it made them ill and then it killed them. is it not possible that, theoretically, an industry with a particular type of toxic discharge could choose to locate itself in an area that had naturally polluted but natural groundwater? we should consistently base our acceptable levels of polluting substances on what is acceptable, that is, what is safe and non-polluting and what is healthy if the water is to be drunk.
mr president, i also wish to thank the rapporteur for her work. no one here disputes the need to protect and improve groundwater, because it is an important source of drinking water. we all know how dreadful it is to drink contaminated water. our record in transposing environmental directives is not good. many people this evening have mentioned the nitrates directive, which dates back to 1991. there are still many member states, including ireland, which are struggling to implement it. has the commission asked itself why this directive is proving so problematic? i would also ask the commission to outline, perhaps tonight, who is and who is not implementing it, with specific emphasis on the irish situation. i have two questions on the groundwater directive, concerning amendments 36 and 43, which remove the provision clarifying the relationship between the nitrates directive and the groundwater directive where there is an overlap. if these amendments are adopted, i believe we may be left with two different regimes operating simultaneously for nitrates from agricultural sources. perhaps the commission could clarify this issue. given that we have such a poor record in implementing the nitrates directive, having two different regimes dealing with nitrates is not a good idea and may even prove unworkable. tackling environmental problems requires education and information campaigns aimed at all sectors: farmers, industrialists and homeowners. the agriculture problem debated this evening and referred to so frequently arose because, in the past, farmers followed the advice of experts who encouraged the increased use of inputs with scant awareness of the environmental impact that advice would have. ironically, some of that advice was supported through eu and member state funding. we now need a sustained campaign to promote greater environmental awareness, including a campaign to highlight the importance of keeping groundwater unpolluted and the possible means of achieving this. i look forward to the commission clarifying the important relationship between the three directives: the water framework, nitrates and groundwater directives.
in writing. i support this recommendation and particularly reject attempts to lower eu water standards by effectively abandoning the 1991 nitrates directive, which ireland has been ruled in breach of by the european court of justice. a 2004 european environment agency report estimated that removing nitrates from drinking water is up to ten times more expensive than taking preventive measures at farm level. conservative amendments seeking to repeal the nitrates directive would therefore mean irish taxpayers having to pay possibly billions more for clean drinking water. we have no right to compromise on the quality of water or to cut deals here on the quality of water. we must err on the side of precaution, not on the side of cost. no member states will maintain or indeed establish adequate standards. they have failed to do so up to now. they have allowed thousands of illegal dumps right across europe, including in ireland – which has still to implement the nitrates directive. we must set stringent standards and strict and severe penalties for those member states which fail to meet those standards and we should not hide behind the principle of subsidiarity, which is simply escaping from our responsibilities.
in writing. in supporting this resolution i wish to put on record my concern about the three suicides reported from guantánamo this past weekend, and continuing use of extraordinary rendition by the cia on behalf of the united states with the cooperation and collusion of many european governments. these governments, including the irish government, are violating their own charter as to human rights, which means we have sunk to an appalling level where one must question the viability of international law. any government that believes in the fundamental principles of the universal declaration of human rights, or in such statements as that of the european convention on human rights, must not just unequivocally condemn what is happening in guantánamo, but must campaign for its immediate closure. no campaign against international terrorism is served by operating outside of international law in its most fundamental aspects. indeed, the united states supreme court itself has spoken in the past on the importance of not using tyrannical methods in dealing with what was suggested as the threat of tyranny. the international community is tested by its willingness to achieve the closure of guantánamo and related facilities immediately.
on behalf of the ind/dem group . – mr president, commissioner, we are spending hundreds of millions on the tamiflu antiviral, without heeding the warning of hanoi university hospital. that hospital has probably dealt with more human victims of avian flu than anywhere else in the world, and the staff there tell us that tamiflu is useless, that it does nothing. as we learn about this flu, we move from a feeling of initial helplessness. we now know that the principal danger is not posed by migrating wild birds which we cannot control, but by domestic or, should i say, industrial fowl, and our handling of them and of their waste products. we can do something about that and i would refer you for a model to the example of ireland’s actions in successfully containing the foot-and-mouth outbreak a few years ago. farms had disinfectant baths and carpets at all entrances. animal markets were closed and any movement of farm animals was closely monitored and largely stopped. we even cancelled our st patrick’s day parades, but the strategy of containment was successful and it can be successful again. we can hope to contain avian flu before it reaches a human-to-human transmission stage.
i should like to thank the commissioner for her comprehensive answer to my question. could the commissioner tell me whether discussions or negotiations are taking place between the major pharmaceutical companies regarding the supply of antiretroviral drugs to people in africa? if so, how extensive are they? has any progress been made and have these drugs been made more widely available to people?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs roure, the rapporteur on this very important and well-balanced report. i recall that in the hague programme there is the clear obligation to ensure the exchange of law enforcement information under the principle of availability with effect from january 2008. at the same time, key conditions in the area of data protection shall be strictly observed. therefore, the quick adoption of the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar is indispensable. security policy, in particular anti-terrorist policy, must respect both the obligation of the state to protect citizens against serious crimes, including terrorism, as well as the fundamental rights of the citizens to their private and family life and to personal data protection. i believe that we must ensure that there is coherence and uniformity in the principles of data protection in the european union, inter alia, between the first and the third pillar. the judgment of the european court on the pnr agreement, as mrs roure rightly said, shows the necessity of a coherent and complete data protection regime at european level, based on clear, substantial data protection principles. in this context, in my view, the framework decision would constitute an important step forward. the commission has already proposed that the framework decision on data protection should be implemented by the end of 2006, before the application of the principle of availability. so i join the european parliament and mrs roure in a plea to the council to accelerate the agreement on the framework decision, taking into full account the position expressed by this parliament. as far as the scope of the framework decision is concerned, as many chapters as possible must apply to domestic situations, as already proposed by the commission. in my view member states must agree on common data protection principles that apply to all processing of personal data by the police and the judicial authorities for the purpose of prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, as the common basis for the exchange of personal data in full respect of such principles. as far as the europol/eurojust system is concerned, the commission agrees that in principle further approximation and facilitation of the european data protection regime should be ensured after the adoption of the framework decision in consultation with all the bodies concerned. the concrete time schedule might need further examination. i am open to additional data protection safeguard specifications concerning biometric identifiers and/or dna data and will look more closely at the european parliament’s suggestions in this very important and sensitive field. taking into account the position of parliament, i will reflect on the concrete procedure for assessing the level of data protection in a third country or an international body. now in the report you are to adopt a solution which would provide that the commission, after consulting the council and parliament, may establish that a third country or an international body ensures an appropriate level of protection within the meaning of the framework decision. as you can guess, i am not personally against such a solution. we will have to work closely with the council because we need unanimity so that the final solution in any case provides, first, a mechanism ensuring that when the other conditions provided for by the framework decision are met, an adequate level of protection exists; and second, that parliament is consulted beforehand and that due account is taken of its opinion.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, it makes eminent common sense in today’s world to have enhanced exchange of information and cooperation between our police services and, indeed, our judicial authorities. it is not possible, in my view, to combat transnational crime without such cooperation, whether the crime is driven by anti-democratic forces which use terror as a political weapon, or by straightforward self-enrichment through money laundering, people trafficking or drug smuggling. the cooperation needs to be both within the european union and between the european union and third countries, but it should not be allowed unless there is stringent protection for human rights and citizens’ freedoms. this is why i wholeheartedly support here tonight the proposal of my colleague, mrs roure, and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. some of our member states are resisting elements of the proposed cooperation, not on grounds of protecting human rights but on purely ideological grounds of protecting national sovereignty. this might at least be understandable if they were consistent. however, the selfsame states are quite happily prepared to accept at face value assurances from the us about its extraordinary rendition network, which transfers suspects from country to country, in and out of eu territory and even to third countries where we know that torture is used. this practice is trampling all over our member states’ sovereignty and the us has even admitted that it does not accept our definitions of torture. our member states should cooperate while insisting on proper protection concerning the use of information and for the people about whom information is exchanged, as is proposed be done in this report. to be consistent, however, our member states must in practice also insist that the us respect the civil and human rights of the people it has illegally transported, and follow up their call that guantánamo should be closed by making it clear to the us that its approach is increasing the threat of terror and is the best recruiting sergeant that fundamentalists of all persuasions have had for many years.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to thank the president of the commission and the president-in-office of the council, as well as the vice-president of the commission, for their presentations and contributions. i would like to deal briefly with a number of issues that i think we should be addressing in europe, before returning to the issue of the period of reflection on the constitution. the austrian presidency has proven over the last few months that when you deal with a particular issue in a certain way you can achieve success. when you try and bring the different players together you can achieve a result that nobody thought possible. we have already seen this on a number of different legislative fronts, both in the cooperation with parliament and in the work with the commission. i think that is what europe needs today: a greater understanding that there is a return on the investment made in terms of time and effort. that return is not just about esoteric ideals, but about creating real solutions to the problems that people face in their lives. unfortunately, too much of the debate is now determined by what media commentators are saying, rather than what the citizens of the european union are saying, because when you speak to people and ask them what their needs are, and what kind of europe that they want to see, they all reply that they want an internal market, greater job security, greater energy security, better personal security and safety, for their children to have a safer and cleaner environment in which to live and for europe to play a responsible role on the world stage. taking all these things together, why do we in this chamber seem to speak about a crisis of confidence in europe, when the level of crisis, fear and loathing which some people would have you believe exists is simply not there among the general public? there are a number of key things we can do in the coming council meeting to try and drive things forward. first of all, there must be a restatement of commitment and idealism in respect of the lisbon agenda, establishing the genuine goals and targets of having, by 2010, the most dynamic economy in the world and creating the investment, research and development that we will need to create new jobs and new opportunities. we also need to follow through on existing dossiers, be it the services directive, the protection of public services or the right to universal service, and bring these into being. with regard to energy, the president of the commission has come forward with a good policy for a common energy policy in europe, but we should also look at the alternatives, including the opportunity to use fuel crops to produce energy. finally, as regards the period of reflection on the constitution, i consider it wrong to call it a constitution, and was delighted that the foreign ministers said in austria that it was wrong to do so. however, it contains some good points and i welcome the perspective outlined for us by the president of the commission, and the vice-president of the commission in particular, in pushing the idea of a plan d and taking up on those good points and moving forward. my only words of caution are that we should not jump ahead of what the governments are willing to do, because ultimately the governments are the key representatives of their peoples and national interests.
mr president, on a point of order, may i just point out that the interpretation was slightly behind you with regard to taking that vote. when you declared the vote open on the first vote, we were voting on the second part, because that was what the interpreter told us before you corrected yourself. you then closed the vote before we had an opportunity to correct our own votes. so, if possible, that vote should be dealt with again. (applause)
mr president, on a point of order and to clarify what i said earlier on, during the vote on the period of reflection, in the split vote relating to paragraph 2 of amendment 2, you requested a roll-call vote but then changed your mind and said the first part of that split vote would be checked. unfortunately, the interpretation did not come through in time, so the vote that i cast for the first part should have been for part two. i was against part two, but was in favour of part one. i and many of my colleagues were caught in this dilemma. could the record show – i know you cannot go back and retake the vote – that those members who voted did so in error.
mr president, i believe it is important that we all use this opportunity to highlight the unfortunate rise in racism at football matches in europe. fifa, the world’s governing body for football, has said that there has been a recent upsurge in discriminatory behaviour towards fans and black players, an escalation that has dovetailed with the signing by many european clubs of players from africa and latin america. fifa has stated that there is a deplorable trend in the increased level of racist attacks in europe. this is not in any individual country; it is everywhere. it is unfortunate if people pick one place or country to highlight this. racist incidents that have taken place at european football matches include the following acts: monkey-like chanting, derisive singing, the hanging of banners that reflect neo-fascist beliefs and the tossing of banana skins on to football pitches. in all, more than 30 billion television viewers are expected to watch the world cup that has just started. i welcome the fact that fifa is going to use that tournament as an opportunity to crack down on racist acts at football matches in europe. there are a number of things it intends to do. because of time constraints i will not list them. however, i believe it is important for our own commissioner for sport, mr figeľ, the finnish presidency, the eu and the european parliament to look carefully over the coming months at how we can highlight this unfortunate trend. i also believe that players have a huge role to play in this. they are very influential with fans and they can have a hugely positive impact on getting people to stop that kind of behaviour. (applause)
i welcome the efforts to resolve what the president-in-office has described as ‘these dangerous developments’. what sort of a precedent is this setting for other mavericks in the near neighbourhood of europe, if somebody who threatens nuclear development, makes xenophobic comments about a nearby state and threatens international security is to get a package? could the president-in-office tell us what is in that package? what has been the outcome of mr solana’s discussions and what response was received from the iranians? could he give us some idea of exactly what is on the table and what is being offered to iran in these circumstances?
would the president-in-office of the council agree with me that there are selfish as well as selfless reasons for refocusing our effort on the developing world? within a generation there will be two billion more people on this earth, 90% of whom will be born into what is now the developing world. we will indeed leave a terrible inheritance to our children if we do not ensure that the current situation changes. on the other hand, these people could become our trading partners. is the minister aware of china’s activities in the developing world? is the european union going to stand by and allow china to become the trading partner of the developing world within a generation?
i want to thank the president-in-office for his reply. i want to ask him whether he believes that by-products of the european forestry industry have a potentially important role to play in the future in providing renewable energy sources.
rapporteur. – mr president, let me begin with cúpla focl, as we say in the irish language – meaning ‘a few words’ – on the title of this report. following the final vote in committee i was asked if i would be prepared to accept an amendment in plenary to modify the title of the report, which refers to ‘fishermen’, so as to implicitly recognise the important role played by women in that important sector. it will not come as any surprise to you that i fully support the miguélez ramos/kindermann amendment, which is totally consistent with the contents of the report and simply introduces the notion of gender equality in the title. like you, i learned on monday that this amendment was inadmissible. like many of you i found that hard to believe. however, you will be pleased to know that this evening the conference of presidents has approved the change in the title of my report. from the outset, had i been allowed to draft this report in the irish language, the problem would not have arisen because i would have used the word iascaire, which, unlike the english word ‘fisherman’, is gender-neutral and embraces all those involved in the sector. there is an urgent need to comprehensively address the multiple problems in the inshore fishing sector in the european union. this aspect of the fisheries sector is the poor relation that has been ignored for far too long. the subject matter is vast and varied. it concerns every single coastal member state, in most instances in totally different ways. that is one area of the fisheries sector where there is the odd reference, here and there, among the plethora of eu legislation, but no community rules and regulations that specifically cater for the sector. i believe that anomaly has to be corrected. inshore fishing essentially takes place in waters that come under exclusive national jurisdiction, and yet inshore fishermen, in many instances, are subjected to common fisheries policy regulations while reaping few of the benefits. inshore fishing is about the economic and social fabric of our small coastal communities. it makes a vital contribution to local economies where, in many instances, there is precious little else in the way of work. inshore fishery activities essentially maintain the social fabric of those communities. they are also essential for the preservation of cultural traditions and practices, which must be preserved. and yet that sector has been ignored for far too long. the future development of the inshore fisheries sector is dependent on social change. it is dependent on the existence of appropriate representative bodies. it is dependent on creating demand for improved added value produce through appropriate marketing structures. it is dependent on resolving the economic aspects that influence operating costs. most importantly, it is dependent on the adoption of appropriate eu programmes specifically designed to help the sector. the inshore fisheries sector is badly in need of development and modernisation. that includes boat modernisation, notably where safety on board is concerned. we must devise measures to minimise the effects of the increase of variable costs that results from high fuel prices. if that means adapting boat engines so that they can run on a high percentage of alternative fuels such as bioethenol then we must take the necessary measures to adapt boat engines accordingly. we must do all we can to attract young men and women to the sector in order to ensure its continuity. i fear that will be impossible if we do not implement adequate vocational training systems geared towards concerned groups of the inshore fisheries population, not least the development of marketing skills. i believe that we must develop new ways of commercialisation and fully integrate coastal fishermen into the marketing process. we must also enhance cooperation and communication channels between organisation and stakeholders concerned. my report is not – as some lobbyists would believe – an attack on recreational fishing in any one member state. it is about the specific social, economic and environmental problems of the entire small inshore fishing sector in all member states of the european union. it is about promoting sustainable fishing. this report is a contribution to resolving problems in the inshore fishing sector, not to creating new ones. my approach is to try to find the appropriate solutions so that different economic interests are catered for in a mutually acceptable way. it would be incorrect for any interest group to read any other interpretation into the text. commissioner borg, this report and this parliament are calling on you to consider a new community initiative for this important sector of activity. the men and women involved in the inshore fisheries sector are calling on you to consider a new community approach. i believe that we have an obligation not to disappoint them. knowing your personal commitment to fisheries, i know that you will not disappoint them.
in ireland, inshore fishing is an industry with special social and economic importance, providing jobs, maintaining remote coastal communities and preserving traditional cultures. it requires skills and knowledge passed from generation to generation of families. it is important that such an industry thrives. the exclusion of inshore fishing from current community legislation is creating an environment in which mere survival is questionable. it is so important that inshore fishing be developed, making it attractive to the employment-seeking youth. the job is generally associated with low wages and unreliability. many must seek further part-time work to supplement their income. in ireland, the celtic tiger economic boom has resulted in higher-paying, stable occupational opportunities for young professionals. an issue which should be addressed concerns the sourcing of funding aid through the european fisheries fund for inshore fishermen badly affected by legislative or policy changes relating to their fishery. from 2007 on, 1200 irish salmon fishermen face the loss of their livelihood due to such legislative and policy changes. inshore fishermen are very vulnerable to the implications of the designation of special areas of conservation. it is necessary that provisions be made to compensate those affected by such designation.
in writing. i endorse the call set out in the buzek report for the continuation of the intas programme and for its activities to be funded from the specific ‘cooperation’, ‘people’ and ‘capacities’ programmes. intas is the only pan-european, eu-funded programme dedicated to scientific cooperation with the nis countries, including involving the scientific community in ireland and northern ireland. it should be continued. the research and training networks should also be continued, particularly the flexible support they have given under fp5 and fp6 to a positive mix of both ‘early-stage researchers’ and ‘experienced researchers’. early-stage researchers benefit greatly from the practical support and advice from more experienced researchers. mobility of researchers also tends to be high when there is a mix of such researchers. this approach should also be continued.
in writing. i totally oppose research on human embryos. i voted for the gargani/záborská amendments. these amendments were defeated. because i believed it served the greater good, i then voted for mrs niebler’s amendments as recommended by mr gargani (and leading christian organisations). i did so in the belief that this would have restricted research to stem cells extracted from the human embryo (i.e. the embryo has already been destroyed) prior to 31.12.2003 and that new human embryos could not be created and then destroyed for research purposes. i did so in particular because the other two sets of amendments (committee and purvis) would be next to be voted on and seemed likely at that stage to be carried. this is the most unacceptable position for me. as both the gargani and niebler amendments were defeated, the next amendment (committee) was passed as i feared. i voted against this. i am not at ease with voting for niebler but it is a better ethical position than creating new embryos for destruction. killing someone to take their liver for research is murder. taking the liver of someone already dead for research is different but still raises huge moral/ethical questions.
in writing. i voted for amendments 352, 353, 354, 355, 356, 357 by gargani, záborská et al because they disallow eu funding for human embryonic stem cell research, leaving it up to the member states to fund from their national budget if they so decide. these amendments acknowledge the exploitative and ethically controversial nature of embryonic procurement and research and recognise that in order to fully respect the subsidiarity principle, eu funds should not be distributed to research that is illegal in various member states. nevertheless, these amendments encourage research on other promising and non-controversial stem cell research such as adult and cord blood. these amendments have already been approved by the juri and femm committees. when the gargani amendments failed to pass, i voted in favour of amendments 319 and 358 by niebler et al as a damage-control exercise. these amendments allow eu funding for unethical use of existing embryonic stem cell lines created before 31 december 2003. this is a compromise amendment. it is an attempt at damage control because it removes the incentive to create new embryos for research and would hinder any progression to cloning.
in writing. i very much welcome the proposal on the table today for common rules in the field of civil aviation. i think it is timely after the security experience gained in the aftermath of september 11th that basic principles can be legally set in stone as to what has to be done in order to protect civil aviation against acts of unlawful interference. all member states need to be singing from the same hymn sheet regarding common rules on security checks, searches, surveillance, prohibited items and security patrols, to name just a few. i support the innovative approach taken by the commission in proposing rules that will cover security measures during flights. however, i am less supportive of amendments put forward to this proposal which call for the compulsory use of armed in-flight security officers or ‘sky marshals’. i believe it is important that member states are not legally bound to deploy or accept armed in-flight security officers on domestic or foreign aircraft.
on behalf of the ind/dem group . – mr president, sometimes it is important to explore the background to a situation. east timor is a country cursed with oil and gas. if a country is rich, powerful and developed it can be blessed with such natural resources, but it seems that the fate of a poor country with such gifts is exploitation, strife and international meddling. like many other countries – côte d’ivoire, uzbekistan and chechnya, etc. – east timor has been exploited by bigger powers. it is inexcusable that australia, a country that likes to see itself as an advanced and peaceful nation, should be occupying and drilling in the gas and oil fields under the east timor sea, and that australia should be justifying that robbery on the basis that indonesia – east timor’s most recent exploiter – gave it the right to drill there. what is more inexcusable is that we have tolerated this. we should encourage east timor in any way we can and be sure that our intentions in doing so are pure and not based on our gaining an advantage in oil or gas, and let east timor get on with the job of developing a viable, peaceful and stable nation.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, first of all i want to put on record my thanks to chancellor schüssel, to secretary-of-state winkler and to all the ministers and the permanent representative from austria for their tremendous work over the last six months. as you can see, chancellor, despite the fact that you took on board some of the ideas parliament spoke about; despite the fact that you included parliamentarians with regard to decision-making; you still get criticised for not being here enough or for not doing enough within parliament. however, being familiar with parliamentary democracy yourself, you know that eaten bread is soon forgotten and it is good to hold back some of the spicy and sugary stuff until the very end of the presidency! when we look at the council meeting and the results from it, there have been some successes. however, the most important area which has been outlined during the austrian presidency has been one of realism, of doing things that are achievable, of not ignoring problems that are there and trying to build a consensus to try and solve them, as well as taking the sensible attitude that this cannot be solved just in six months. it requires a longer approach; it requires more involvement of other presidencies; it requires more involvement of other member states. i think that one of the biggest difficulties that we face within the european union is when we speak about speaking to citizens, when we talk about speaking to citizens in parliament, who is best placed to speak to the citizens? who has the best capacity to ensure citizens understand exactly what is happening at a european level? with all due respect to the oratorical elegance and linguistic ability of the president of the commission, and all of my colleagues within the groups here in parliament, i would be useless speaking to a german audience with regard to what europe does for them. but i am convinced that i can bring the majority of irish people on board with me, and in every other member state it is the same thing. irish representatives, finnish representatives, german representatives, austrian representatives, french representatives must speak to people to tell them what is required. but they must speak with honesty, not using double-speak or with forked tongues. we have already seen that in france and in holland during the referendums on the constitution. people were throwing out ideas saying the services directive was going to destroy the european social model – a complete lie! a lie that was perpetrated by people simply for political means. now i have no difficulty with having a political argument on ideology with anybody. but if we are going to speak about the future of europe, then that future has to be based on honesty, on facts. i think one of the biggest dangers that we face for the future is that we have failed our citizens and failed our people in terms of telling them exactly how successful europe has been, how good it has been for them not only in peace, stability and prosperity, but also in bringing about political stability, in ensuring equality between men and women, in guaranteeing minimum rights for workers, minimum rights for people who are most in need and most at risk within our societies. we still have more to do, but at least we have made a positive start to it. the last point that i would make is that we should avoid using the passerelle – article 42. i know it is an important issue for president barroso and for others to try to move away from unanimity where it is not possible to get it, but if you do that you further alienate not only governments, but the people as well: people who see europe as an autocratic body trying to force its own will on others.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to pay tribute to the excellent work already carried out by the committee of inquiry into the equitable life affair under the leadership of ms mcguinness and the rapporteur, ms wallis. the interim report under discussion today provides a useful summary of the committee’s mandate and programme of work. as the report says, it is too early to draw conclusions. the committee continues to collect evidence. we all await with interest the second report of the uk parliamentary ombudsman. the commission has, from the start, declared its readiness to cooperate fully with the committee of inquiry. we have provided all the documentation and information requested by the committee and will continue to provide whatever support we can. i will be more than happy to appear before the committee in november. the equitable life affair has caused much anguish and financial loss for many citizens and we must draw appropriate lessons for the future. in that context, our ongoing solvency ii insurance project is aimed at contributing to the financial strength of all eu insurance undertakings. solvency ii intends to enhance policyholder protection and to overhaul and deepen eu regulation and supervision in the insurance area. risk-oriented calculations of the solvency requirements of insurance undertakings would be introduced. under solvency ii, the calculation of insurance liabilities will be harmonised and convergence of supervisory practices will be fostered. i am confident that those efforts will create a framework that helps to prevent this kind of financial crisis happening again.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i welcome the debate tonight on this interim report by mrs wallis, which has largely been agreed by consensus within the committee of inquiry. one of the extraordinary aspects of this issue is the fact that those outside the uk who purchased policies from equitable life did so believing that they had european union protection and that the regulators in their own country would protect them. they then discovered some years ago that, in fact, they have no protection whatsoever. when the 8300 investors in ireland, who were putting money aside for their pensions, and about 4000 such investors in germany went to their respective regulators, they were told to go and talk to the uk regulator. this is not the way that people expected to be dealt with. this report highlights another important aspect: the manner in which this has come to the house through the committee on petitions. that committee is one of the most effective ways of bringing europe close to the citizens. the commissioner and others have said that it is too early yet to draw conclusions. however, one of the conclusions i have come to is that we need to look closely at the manner in which financial services are regulated, because it would appear that we expect a regulator to do two functions which are distinctly different. one is to protect the stability of the financial services market, and the other is to protect the interests of the investor. at one level it may be that this is possible, because clearly an investor in pension funds is interested in having a stable market. however, when it comes to the crunch – when a treasury may face large claims – does the regulator protect the market or protect the investor? in this particular instance the uk treasury was directly responsible for regulating equitable life and it would have been faced with claims for billions of pounds sterling had it found that equitable life should close down. it did not choose to do so. i would argue that we need to look closely in solvency ii at what regulators are expected to do and separate out those two functions.
mr president, as the person chairing the committee of inquiry, i can reassure mr mote that those witnesses who did not answer will be back – we have a guarantee! i would urge the members of the committee to sharpen their interrogating skills and we will get answers, because that is a priority. i would say to my eloquent friend, sir robert atkins, that, whilst he described me and the rapporteur as roses, we intend rather to be thorns in the side of the system, because there is something rotten here. people have been badly burnt and the system has failed them. we have heard from all the petitioners of the disasters suffered by individuals. i agree with the rapporteur that this interim report is something of a distraction, but an important one just the same, because it will awaken members of this house to the importance of detail. we vote here, we go home and we forget that in a couple of years the votes we take here are implemented in member states. sometimes we get it wrong as legislators and i think equitable life might yet prove that. we have not reached any conclusions yet, but one thing we have established is that the regulators were playing games of ping-pong with policyholders. it is important to thrash out the rights of the host country and the obligations of the home country. in my view, there is a key question to be answered. some say they know the answer, but i have not come to any conclusion. who knew of the difficulties in equitable life and when? were others notified? in other words, were member states’ regulators in other countries informed as soon as possible? is it not the case that the directives, as they are implemented, would not allow a regulator to reveal confidential information that might dissuade a policyholder from investing in companies with problems like equitable? that is a key question. beyond the work we are doing today, there is no doubt that equitable has left a sour taste for the losers and others who are watching events unfolding and it does nothing to help those who are trying to encourage citizens to invest in pensions. what we find out from our investigation will be key for the future. everyone tells us that with solvency ii life will be great in the future, but it will not be unless we get the regulations right. in conclusion, you can have all the regulation in the world, but if there is not a committed individual watching and guiding for all the member states, it will amount to nothing. finally, who is regulating the regulators? is it the commission?
mr president, the report we are discussing here today is very much an interim report into the collapse of equitable life assurance society in britain. due to the very technical nature of the european parliament’s investigations into this issue, this committee of inquiry is going to take a lot more time to complete its work. this is a very serious business for the european parliament. we should recall that, from an irish perspective alone, over 6500 irish citizens lost their pension investments either in total or in part as a result of the collapse of equitable life assurance society. in this day and age, when there is so much eu regulation concerning the governance of financial investments, this is simply an intolerable and unacceptable situation. it is not, as mr mote said, that the irish were kept in ignorance: they were treated differently. i say that it is intolerable and unacceptable for any company, financial or otherwise, to treat its policyholders differently. they should be treated the same, whether they are british, irish or german. the committee has already invited a number of key witnesses to the european parliament, including from the following categories: pensioners’ groups, the equitable life members’ action group; british and irish policyholders, representatives of the equitable life assurance company; and representatives from the financial affairs directorate at the european commission. the committee is going to have to invite more witnesses if it is to get down to the nuts and bolts of how the uk life assurance market has operated in recent years. the committee is also going to need more time to carry out a comprehensive, comparative analysis into the operation of similar life assurance markets in germany and in ireland. the european parliament is carrying out a very serious inquiry and the committee of inquiry is going to need more time to complete its work. i urge members of this house to give it that time and to give it every means at the disposal of this parliament to complete its work.
member of the commission. mr president, as has been pointed out, drawing conclusions at this stage would be premature. the commission looks forward to continuing working with the committee of inquiry. the aim is to see how we can ensure that community and national law is properly implemented and applied. the single market offers advantages for consumers. policyholders should be able to rely on their financial institutions and the fact that their solvency is ensured. we must ensure that consumers have viable means of redress. i look forward to the committee’s recommendations on the problems experienced by policyholders in various member states and how they could be avoided. however, i would not accept that the equitable life affair calls into question the basis of internal market in the insurance sector. as lord penrose stated in his report on the affair, the origins of this crisis go back many years. national supervision is constantly developing and improving, whilst at european level the solvency ii project will provide a more coordinated and risk-based system. but no system can be guaranteed to prevent all market problems. i think we should avoid a more or less useless debate on host versus home state control. host state control would not have made a difference in this case. in a single market, supervisors should cooperate. both supervisors have roles to play. however, i certainly agree that we should not and cannot accept a ‘passing the buck’ attitude. that is definitely something that we need to address.
as a company, equitable life was in financial trouble for a long time. however, the growing crisis was concealed from policyholders. what is worse, new policyholders were solicited and presented with a false impression of a company with a secure future in which their funds would prosper. the regulators failed. in 2001, equitable life lost a case in the uk that made it impose exit penalties on uk policyholders, though money for irish policyholders was supposed to be ring-fenced and safe. despite this, two years later in 2003, exit penalties worth about 20% of the value of equitable life policies were imposed on irish policyholders. the regulators failed. since this time irish equitable life policyholders have lost their investment, which in many cases means their life savings. they have been denied justice by the uk, irish and eu authorities though they are entitled to redress and protection when regulators fail. their case has been before this parliament’s committee on petitions for a year and a half. it is time for this parliament to stand by the victims of failed regulatory mechanisms and to insist that an equitable settlement be finalised for the policyholders of equitable life.
mr president, whether one accepts mrs lucas’s figure of 4.1 million jobs or the association of european airlines’ figure of 7.5 million jobs directly dependent on air transport, we must agree that the aviation industry contributes very significantly to european employment and growth. air transport is vital to the eu’s economy, accounting for up to 8% of gdp, boosting productivity, attracting investment and encouraging tourism. air transport has become an integral part of society, allowing us to travel long distances quickly, but also strengthening europe’s integration, prosperity and political importance. aviation facilitates social cohesion and cultural exchange. strategically, air transport is of critical importance, particularly for peripheral regions and islands such as ireland. it is easy to exaggerate the contribution from aviation to the present problem of climate change, and emissions from all transport sectors are of concern to the air quality issue and the climate change debate, which is the number one item on every environment agenda. we should not be singling out aviation and ignoring shipping and the considerably greater impact from increasing road transport and car usage. in 2003, total emissions from flights into and out of the eu 25 member states contributed 3.4% of co2 emissions, which was equivalent to 0.5% of worldwide emissions in this area. air transport is treated differently under the un framework convention on climate change in terms of how its greenhouse gas emissions are accounted for. it is not directly included in the kyoto protocol. while we should acknowledge the advances made by the european aviation industry’s voluntary initiative, the emissions containment policy, with eu air traffic movements set to double by 2020 over the 2003 level, the real question is whether, on the basis of the polluter pays principle, this voluntary initiative will be adequate to counteract rising emissions from air transport. do we need legislation? interestingly, a recent house of lords report on aviation’s contribution to climate change stated that it was insignificant and likely to remain so for 30 years. the industry itself claims that fuel efficiency, direct routing and new technology have already achieved a 70% reduction in aircraft emissions over the last 30 years and that air traffic management, improved holding patterns over airports, and replacement of older planes with state-of-the-art technology in fleet renewal could reduce climate-change impact even further as the number of flights increases each year. an emissions trading scheme and auctioning rights are worth investigating, but, i ask the commissioner, would a stand-alone or closed ets for aviation not fall at the first hurdle, since all the trading entities would be net buyers and there would be no market? a possible solution, following a comprehensive impact assessment, would appear to be incorporation of aviation into a reviewed existing ets, with the proviso that all flights landing and taking off in europe must be included. this should ideally be part of a global solution, with industry and governments sitting down with the international civil aviation organization, as article 2(2) of the kyoto protocol suggests. do not hold your breath. any economic instruments must have clear environmental objectives, rather than fiscal ones, and must be part of an overall package that addresses technological, operational and infrastructural improvements. an open skies agreement, reducing stacking and taxiing time through better air traffic control management and improved scheduling and coordination within a single european sky policy must all be part of a comprehensive policy mix.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i too should like to congratulate the rapporteur and indeed everybody involved in reaching an agreement which has produced a joint text on this important regulation concerning the aarhus convention. in parliament and elsewhere we often speak about bringing europe closer to its citizens. well, aarhus translates our words into action. i believe this regulation certainly helps to put flesh on the bones of aarhus. too often governments and other public bodies pay lip-service to public consultation and participation. it is seen as a necessary evil to be dispensed with as soon as possible; an inconvenience that the real decision makers have to endure. too often public participation is filed away in some deep, dark drawer and very conveniently ignored. that was and, in many cases still is, the system. that system has decided in its wisdom that the public – the ordinary citizens – whose lives will be immediately and permanently affected by certain environmental decisions cannot be trusted to participate in and influence such important decisions. the system is due for a shake-up and this regulation will significantly help that process. commissioner wallström speaks of plan d – for dialogue, debate and democracy. well, plan a, which is aarhus, is surely a framework for ensuring that we can have dialogue, debate and democracy in environmental matters. unfortunately we have not yet ratified the aarhus convention in my own country, the republic of ireland, unlike most of our neighbours in the eu. that continues to place irish citizens at a disadvantage, as aarhus is the world’s most far-reaching treaty on environmental rights and guarantees public rights to access to information and public participation in environmental decision making. this regulation, i am sure, will be welcomed by those who have an interest in the proposed incinerator in ringsend in dublin and will have certainly greatly facilitated those with concerns about corrib gas in the west of ireland. however, i am pleased that, in this house at least, we are going in the right direction even if some countries, like my own, are dragging their heels.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, in my constituency in ireland there is a battle being fought. men, women and children are standing guard everyday in pallaskenry, county limerick, blocking their county council from cutting off the pipes which supply them with the clean, spring-fed lake water that they and their ancestors have been using for thousands of years and from forcing them instead to take a supply of water from the river deal, one of ireland’s most polluted rivers. in another stand-off in bantry, county cork, people are camping out at strategic positions, blocking workers sent to run unnecessary over-the-ground high-voltage power lines across their farms. these groups are not only in the blockades but they are in the high court, at great personal expense, and are being threatened by our justice system with prison. with aarhus these situations should not be happening in ireland. is there anything you can do to help us? our government has signed the aarhus convention, which makes our government look good among its nation peers, but our government is one of the few signatories that refuse to ratify it and to give it effect. the aarhus convention demands that we the people contribute information and have access to it, that the people are part of every decision taken about the environment and that we have affordable and ready access to justice when it is necessary to protect the environment and the families in it. by not ratifying aarhus, the irish government thinks it can continue its practice of riding roughshod over its people, whilst kowtowing to any and every wealthy investor, regardless of the damage it will do to people’s lives, health and environment. this report seeks to urge a better application of aarhus, but we in ireland have no application. please put pressure on the irish government to finally ratify aarhus, even at this late date, and see the people as an ally rather than an enemy in the effort to protect the environment.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, in many ways i find it very difficult to know what to say today, because i, unlike many of my colleagues, am from a generation that does not have a living memory of the tragedy that was the very foundation of the european union. however, i read history and i have some knowledge and understanding of it. we are speaking today about the 70th anniversary of franco’s coup. an atrocity or a tragedy on the european continent is commemorated in the history books for every single day going back over 227 years. i suppose, then, what we really should be focusing on is that fascism, communism, imperialism and the totalitarian regimes we have experienced on our continent have a common thread: a lack of respect for human difference and different ideas and an intolerance towards those who want to chart a different path. whether we are talking about potsdam, hungary, gdańsk, siberia, spain, portugal or ireland, those who have tried to impose their will on others have always failed, because the very essence of our humanity is the desire to be free to ensure that we can live and interact with others. that is why it is most important that we not only learn from the mistakes of the past but also ensure that we never repeat them. rather than criticising or pointing the finger and saying that this tragedy was more dramatic, more damaging or more influential in european politics than others, let us agree that it happened and use it as an example. in europe today, we have been able to overcome those differences; we have found a forum and a way forward in which people from different countries, with different ideologies, different histories and different interpretations of the same history can come together and find common ground and a common cause. the best thing that we can do today in the european parliament is to encourage prime minister zapatero in his efforts to bring together what were previously irreconcilable peoples to find a common way forward in the basque region. that is not to forgive the atrocities that were committed or to say that the wrongs did not take place; it is to say that you cannot go on living in the past, you cannot remain bitter. when the opportunity for peace arises, we must seize it as it passes. (applause)
mr president, first i all i wish to congratulate all the rapporteurs on their dedication and commitment. indeed, i agree with mr hatzidakis that they have all run a marathon. overall, i must admit to a certain disappointment with the final budget. it is certainly less than the commission and parliament recommended. i believe that this will have an impact on the convergence objectives of the funds. as far as parliament’s work is concerned, however, i am satisfied. we have succeeded in obtaining many improvements. in particular i want to mention partnership, which is crucial because it involves civil society, environmental partners and ngos working in close cooperation with all the partners. this is a practical demonstration of how europe can be brought closer to its citizens by involving citizens in the planning and implementation of the programmes, although i agree with mrs kallenbach that this must be real, rather than apparent. i am also particularly pleased that the funds will support accessibility for people with disabilities and will promote integration of the gender perspective. this is a practical example of how article 13 can be translated into action.
in writing. i welcome the commission communication of september 2005, which begins to address the most effective ways of tackling the international increase of greenhouse emissions' increase of 73% from 1990 to 2003. the extension of the eu emissions trading scheme (ets) to the aviation sector may be the best way forward to limiting these emissions and to ensuring that aviation, like all other sectors, contributes to reducing harmful greenhouse gases. the most important issue moving forward is to examine the effectiveness of the technical design elements for the policy to deliver its full potential for environmental and economic efficiency, while also giving special attention to the situation of ireland and other isolated territories, which are so particularly dependent on air transport services, both capital and regional areas. in addition, the impact on prices and the allocation of emission rights need further examination. given ireland’s geographical circumstances, aviation is a critical element of our infrastructure, with air services being of vital importance for economic and social reasons. consequently, a competitive market between air transport operators is necessary for ireland’s economic competitiveness.
vice-president of the commission. following the commission’s reply to the honourable member’s question earlier this year, we have asked the irish authorities for clarification as to the implementation in ireland of directive 96/71/ec. the deadline for the submission of observations by the irish authorities has not yet passed. once these observations have been received, the commission will assess them and of course, if necessary, decide on a further course of action. in the meantime, we have adopted a new communication concerning guidance on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. in this communication we have announced the adoption in spring 2007 of a report that will examine the situation in all member states, of course including ireland.
would the commissioner agree that at this time, when migration throughout the european union is increasing, implementation of the posting of workers directive is crucial in order to ensure that there is no race to the bottom and that migrant workers are not exploited by unscrupulous employers? that is unfortunately what is happening in ireland at the moment, as a result of the failure of the irish government to properly implement this posting of workers directive.
on the issue of the race to the bottom, i should like to ask you to comment on the statement by the taoiseach, bertie ahern, when he said that when enlargement happens in january, ireland may not open the market to workers from romania and bulgaria, because other member states are not so doing and because of the concerns as to what will happen to the irish market in relation to this race to the bottom and the rights of workers. could you comment on that in particular, and would you urge other member states to do what ireland did in relation to the new member states already here?
the point i would like to raise with the commissioner relates to the whole question of the transposition and implementation of directives. one of the problems with the refusal by member states to implement or transpose directives is the commission’s tardiness in taking punitive action against such member states. the whole process of taking effective action against those who refuse to implement community law needs to be speeded up urgently.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i should like to say to the commissioner that when i look at the report, which clearly identifies radioactive waste as deadly, i wonder why we still see nuclear power as an option, even, as i have seen in some new lobbying efforts, passing off nuclear energy as 'green'. this directive focuses only on member states which are active participants in the production of nuclear energy and on those that accept the waste. ireland neither produces nuclear waste nor reprocesses it. we are not factored into this report, yet we need to be protected because we have sellafield, a british reprocessing plant, very close to our shores. the irish sea – the narrow strip of water that separates us from sellafield – has, because of sellafield, become the most radioactive body of water in the world. sellafield is expanding and preparing to take more and more radioactive waste for reprocessing. any waste coming from continental europe will most likely be shipped through the irish sea, putting us at additional risk. we in ireland seem to have no say in this. we are seen as passive bystanders. no one looks for our consent. we are able to reject the fuel, but not to reject the risks when our neighbours accept it. we have, as a country, chosen to remain nuclear-free. that should be respected, both in terms of accepting waste and in terms of the risk of waste being transported through our waters. in the area of smoking, legislators have come to recognise the significance of passive smoking and have taken measures to defend the people who are near the smoker. we need to recognise the effects and risks of reprocessing, shipment and reshipment on everyone, not just the countries of origin and destination that are making money from the nuclear business.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i should like to welcome the president-in-office and the president of the commission to the chamber. when the incoming presidency sets out its programme, it can often sound a little stale or bored and the reaction to it is also stale. that is why it is unfortunate that some of the brilliant ideas from the presidency on the future it envisages for the european union have not been taken up properly. looking at the different presidency programmes – whether the finnish presidency, the previous austrian presidency or even the advance programme for the german presidency – we can often see continuity in one area, but we can also see the individuality of the country taking over the presidency. one of the key elements we in the european union must focus on is our relationship with the countries to the east of the existing european union borders. you, president-in-office, have proved your ability and skill in building up the relationship with russia. it is not just about energy, but also about neighbourhood policy, cooperation and geopolitical stability, because there are so many issues in the former states of the soviet union that can create uncertainty and instability within the european union. we have to be careful of that and we look to you to utilise your resources and skills in those areas. secondly, on the question of transparency and openness – and people often speak about transparency without fully realising or understanding what it means – the most transparent thing parliament, the institutions and the presidency can do is to deliver on their commitments. that is why, president-in-office, the ideas being proposed on improving justice and home affairs, promoting alternative energy – although i might disagree with you on other aspects of climate change and their solutions – and new ways of creating biofuels, bio-energy and bioethanol are the way forward. you and some of your ministers will need to be courageous in standing up to the lobby groups that want to push us down a single road. the best approach is the multi-track approach, taking the best from each individual part. the president of the commission rightly referred to the importance of research and technology and innovation for the european economy. if we in europe are not ahead of the rest of the world in our ability to create new ideas and new innovations, we will lose. no matter how good our tax regimes or infrastructure, if we do not have the brains, intelligence and capacity to utilise and exploit those ideas, then we will fail. i think some of the ideas your presidency is putting forward on research and development will yield dividends for us. the protection of intellectual property should be one of your concerns. finally, i have not so far mentioned football, but i have to mention one aspect and that is that football is a game of two halves and even extra time. it may be that we need extra time rather than applying the passerelle clause under article 42 immediately. let us ensure that we have consensus in the council before moving forward.
in writing. i welcome this report, which has been on the table for six years. one of the main points to be considered is to ensure that pilot fatigue does not endanger flight safety. given the increased frequency of flights and the huge number of passengers flying nowadays, harmonisation of safety standards at the highest, scientifically supported safety level is imperative, in order to create a level playing field within the enlarged eu. when dealing with this type of legislation, we have to be mindful of its impact upon pilot fatigue. on that basis, i support a medical and scientific evaluation of the impact of such a law two years after this legislation comes into force. i believe that this report clearly stipulates that this regulation can in no way constitute a legal basis to watering down existing safety protection in member states. it is important, in view of safety, that the commission carries out an assessment of the impact of the regulation on rosters and operating models and, in the event that they are adversely affected, the commission should carry out an assessment and propose an adjustment of the provisions regarding flight and duty time limitations.
in writing. firstly, i wish to express my support for the efforts of the community to strengthen the supervision and control of shipments of radioactive waste within the eu. without a doubt, should it be our priority to ensure that our people are protected against the dangerous affects of nuclear waste. however, i decided to abstain from the vote because the proposed council directive does not take into account the dangerous effects of shipments and reprocessing of radioactive waste on nuclear-free member states like ireland. the proposed directive focuses only on member states who are active participants in the production of nuclear energy. the interests of passive bystanders like ireland, a country which chose to remain nuclear-free and is not a transit state, are not covered by the proposal. as a nuclear-free country, ireland is affected by the waste coming from continental europe to be reprocessed at britain’s sellafield plant. the waste is shipped through the irish sea, thus making it the most radioactive body of water in the world. ireland’s unique position is not included in the proposal for a directive on the supervision and control of shipments of radioactive waste.
mr president, i think everybody in this parliament supports the fight against terrorism. terrorists do not respect human life, they do not respect democracy and they do not respect human rights. we are all behind that fight, but it is the way we go about it that has to be debated and decided upon. the american government has to realise that it must comply with the rule of law and well-established international conventions and practices in its effort to defeat international terrorism. unfortunately, the usa has acted arbitrarily when it has sought to build political alliances on this matter through the structures of the united nations. the strategies pursued by america in iraq and in the broader middle east in recent years have arguably generated a greater level of sympathy for terrorists. i am an irish member of this parliament and we in ireland know how terrorism builds and grows and how, by making the wrong decisions, governments can strengthen terrorist organisations. as an example, the ira was almost defeated on a number of occasions, but wrong decisions were made and it won public sympathy and grew again. the way terrorism is defeated has to be looked at very carefully. the interim report before us today points to the undeniable fact that rendition flights have taken place in europe. the american government must bring this practice to an end if it is going to build eu-us transatlantic relations. if we are going to fight terrorism, we must all work together within the law. the committee still has much work to do and it is seeking support from parliament to continue its work for a further six months. i hope that parliament will give this committee the extra time it needs to bring its work to a conclusion. however, the american government must implement new strategies if it is going to win the war against international terrorism. there are so many examples of how not to do it, but it is only through enlightened policies and through those of us who believe in democracy and human rights working together that terrorism can be fought and permanently eradicated.
mr president, this debate would be amusing if it were not so serious. we can never justify the means we use to beat terrorism by claiming that the ends are noble. we cannot defend our values by abandoning them and i suspect that some of the people involved in today’s debate would much rather we abandoned our values just to prove themselves right. it is regrettable that, for party political reasons, some members are not willing to recognise what everybody else sees, not just in this house but outside it. illegal renditions by us agents have taken place. some eu member states’ services have colluded in those renditions, either passively or actively. the cross-referencing of witness statements and eurocontrol records has established that some eu states have serious questions to answer and have so far refused to come clean. this inquiry must therefore continue. parliamentary investigations are necessary, particularly in countries like my own, ireland, where it has been established that 50 cia flights have landed at irish airports and that the aircraft used to transfer abu omar illegally from italy to egypt, via germany, also landed at an irish airport. we have good reason to believe that abu omar was in fact tortured in egypt. so it is quite ridiculous for members in this house to argue that this inquiry should not proceed. the irish human rights body, a government-sponsored body, has called on the irish government to establish a legally enforceable regime of aircraft inspections, which at the moment does not exist. it has also called for a legally enforceable regime whereby diplomatic assurances from third countries can be challenged in law. the irish government has so far refused to do this. these are issues that need to be addressed and the irish government and its agencies need to be cross-examined by this committee, as, indeed, do many other member states.
mr president, i would like to say at the outset that i am fully against flights of rendition. such a practice is in breach of established international conventions such as the european convention on human rights. from an irish perspective, i am pleased that this report does not come up with any findings against the irish government, and this is in line with assurances given by the us authorities. i totally refute what my colleague mr de rossa said here today. it is unfounded to make allegations like that. shannon airport has been unreasonably treated in this regard and has been the loser, because it has now been decided by the american authorities not to use the airport for refuelling purposes, at a cost of eur 10 million to the revenue of that airport. that is a result of the unfounded allegations that are being made by mr de rossa and others. they should establish the facts before they speak in such a manner.
mr president, torture is always wrong and counterproductive. the us-instigated torture rendition programme is particularly wrong because it makes acceptable a new model in that in the past torture was mainly committed by dictatorial regimes. now it is being promoted by democratic states. if the malpractice of torture is not challenged and reversed, then international laws designed to protect all humanity will be permanently degraded. closing guantánamo is not the answer because many prisoners transferred will be tortured elsewhere. many of the prisoners transferred in november 2005 from the european black site prisons are now in unknown black hole prisons elsewhere. the eu has a responsibility to ensure that these prisoners do not suffer further torture. the un and the red cross should have compulsory access to all prisoners everywhere and the un should have a daily-updated register of all prisoners in all un member states. the eu and eu member states should also provide more finance for the care of survivors of torture.
mr president, six months ago we set up a temporary committee to investigate allegations of extraordinary rendition flights by the cia and the involvement of eu countries. there have been many hours of hearings and debates in the committee since then and now we have our first interim report. an honest assessment of the committee’s work to date would give a mixed picture, i believe. on the one hand there has been a certain level of frustration that new evidence and facts have not been forthcoming in most of our hearings. however, that said, i believe that the committee’s work has been useful in outlining and exposing all of the facts that are available to date, and certain facts are available. even if we are reconsidering evidence already exposed by the council of europe, we need to be realistic. our committee is not a court of law; we are politicians attempting to draw conclusions based on the balance of probability, given the evidence available. investigating the activities of the cia or any secret services was never going to be a straightforward exercise. i believe that the report should have given more recognition to the fact that more evidence is needed to draw definitive conclusions in regard to certain issues, such as the possible existence of ‘black sites’ in eu member states. it is unfortunate that the debate on whether or not to support this report has been reduced by some to a polarising of positions, a pro- and anti-us stance, or even a left versus right divide. i am sorry that view has developed as it undermines the work of a well-intentioned committee and misses the point as regards what we are trying to achieve. it is not anti-american to criticise extraordinary rendition or to push to establish facts, particularly if there are accusations against eu member states in this regard. i would consider myself a hypocrite as a human rights spokesperson if i did not speak out against extraordinary rendition, even if it means criticising and asking awkward questions of governments that i consider to be our friends and allies. i include the us in that. no approach to the necessary and difficult war on terrorism should be supported if it involves acting outside the rule of international law and the various standards that we, in europe, stand up for. the interim report is not a perfect one, but the acceptance of ppe-de amendments will add balance to a text worth supporting.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report, one that is long overdue. fair trade is about paying poor producers a fair price and helping them gain the necessary skills and knowledge to develop their business and work their way out of poverty. i agree with the commissioner. it is not the sole answer, but it is part of a solution. shoppers who choose produce with the fair trade mark play a vital role in alleviating poverty and supporting marginalised producers in a manner that promotes dignity and self-sufficiency. new figures released today reveal that global sales of fair trade certified products reached 1.1 billion in 2005. that represents an increase of 37% over 2004. the message is obvious: consumers are happy to support fair trade. to generate greater sales of fair trade terms for the benefit of more marginalised producers, it is important to involve commercial manufacturers and to encourage fair trade supply to supermarkets, where most people do their shopping. fair trade’s significant worldwide growth in 2005 also shows that more and more producers, traders and suppliers trust the fair trade certificate mark and like to join the system. however, the challenge ahead will be to make sure that the standards in that certification are maintained. i recently visited guatemala with trocaire, an irish ngo. during our visit we visited the claremont coffee estate, where 50 families who have lived and worked on that estate for three generations, living in what can only be described as feudal conditions, were thrown off their farm because the owner, who happens to be the sister-in-law of the country’s president, decided that she did not want them on the estate and wanted to change what they were doing. they are a group of people who want to start a co-op to produce fair trade coffee. they know how to produce coffee; as i said, they have been doing it for generations. i just want it put on record that i have raised the plight of these people in guatemala in this house, because i think it is an absolute outrage that people can be treated like that in this day and age. fair trade is not just about selling and buying, it is about creating justice for people globally.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i welcome commissioner mandelson here today. i listened to what the commissioner had to say this morning. he spoke of real cuts in agricultural subsidies by all and he used the phrase ‘operating to the limit of our flexibility’. i want to ask him about that flexibility and the mandate he has from the council of ministers with regard to trade concessions in agriculture. has the negotiating mandate set out in the council conclusions and the luxembourg agreement changed? while i do not expect him to give me precise details of his negotiating position, i would like to know what the broad parameters of that flexibility are and if there is a limit. the commissioner also said that he had negotiated alongside commissioner fischer boel in geneva last week. does he agree with her statement last week that if we accepted the g20 proposals in their entirety we would lose up to half a million jobs in the supply chain, with beef production in the likes of ireland and france being wiped out and poultry production disappearing altogether? finally, i apologise sincerely to the commissioner that, as the debate has run several hours late and i have a plane that will not wait, i will have to listen to his answers on the internet.
mr president, we seem to lose sight of the development aspect of the doha development round as it grinds on. there have been no noticeable gains for least-developed nations. there have been noticeable losses to countries like mauritius, which now run the risk of being relegated to the category of poorest countries. there have also been major losses for irish agriculture. recently a farmer – who is a third-generation sheep farmer – took me to see his last flock of sheep. in our once flourishing sugar industry, the lights have been switched off and the door closed in our last factory. although i would like to see some tangible progress for the poorest nations, i suppose i should be grateful that in this latest round of talks no more irish agriculture has been given away. however, if the commissioner needs to find leverage to shift the us position, i suggest that he works to get gm crops categorised separately from their natural equivalents. this would give us and the least-developed countries a distinct advantage over the us, which would find it hard to separate gm crops and natural equivalents. when the commissioner does that, would he also again talk to commissioner fischer boel about allowing countries in europe to have gm-free status?
author. – mr president, somalia has not had effective government for more than 15 years now. instead we have seen bitter and tragic civil war between warring factions, islamic militia and factions controlled by rival war lords. on 4 june 2006, to the surprise of many, the islamic courts militia took control of much of southern somalia, including the capital mogadishu – partially destroyed by now – when they drove out the powerful faction leaders who had controlled mogadishu since 1991, when the central administration was toppled. that has dramatically changed the political landscape in the region and the power shift has left the outside world in an unsure position as to with whom it should or could negotiate and develop a relationship. what is required from the eu is to recognise what has happened and to support the work to date of the arab league, for example, which initiated a dialogue in khartoum on 22 june between the transitional federal government institutions and the union of islamic courts, which controls the south. they have agreed for now not to fight each other and to engage in dialogue for peace and reconciliation. we must also support the efforts of the african union to monitor and, if necessary, enforce peace to protect civilians. the truth is that serious concern exists on a number of levels. the first concern is what to make of the union of islamic courts. is it a body that can be trusted and a partner for peaceful discussion? i know that the us has recently opened a dialogue with various parties about prospects for confidence-building measures. the other, and more real, concern is that in an effort to achieve stability and an end to violence, strict and fundamentalist islamic law will be enforced on large populations. that is very worrying and the concern is well founded. yesterday’s media reports of a cinema crackdown in somalia’s galgadud region, where two people were shot after protests following the closure of a cinema there, are of great concern. also yesterday, the islamic courts vowed to practice sharia law throughout the country and, in particular, in mogadishu. sheikh abdullah, one of the co-founders of the union, said yesterday: ‘he who does not perform prayer will be considered an infidel and our sharia law orders that person to be killed’. that kind of language is inflammatory and dangerous. the eu needs to monitor what is happening carefully and be careful which sides it supports.
author. – mr president, this resolution is a broad one attempting to deal with global access to the web, which is a huge issue. it welcomes the statement from the world summit in tunis last november on the prime importance of the information society for democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular freedom of expression and opinion, as well as the freedom to receive and give access to information. the reality is, of course, that the web provides a fantastic vehicle for change in countries that have to date suppressed freedom of expression and frustrated democracy. for that reason, the internet is a real headache for totalitarian dictators and governments, who go to great lengths to restrict and prevent its free use. this resolution uses strongly worded language and condemns a number of countries who are openly attempting to restrict and censor information over the web, referring to them as enemies of freedom of expression. many of these countries continue to imprison persons who are referred to as ‘cyber dissidents’ and we call for their immediate release. this is particularly the case with china, and we have named a whole series of people involved. the resolution also tries to deal with the more sensitive issue of involvement by western, and specifically us and european, technology and companies in providing the capacity for certain governments to censor and filter internet material. the great firewall of china is perhaps the starkest example of such censorship. the chinese authorities have successfully persuaded companies such as yahoo and google to allow filtering of their search engines. for example, if one types in tiananmen square in china, one is likely to get an architectural history of the buildings around the square. we call on the commission to put together a voluntary code of conduct, working with rather than lecturing to companies operating in repressive countries, in an effort to reduce the capacity to prevent freedom of expression.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i think there are controls and controls. we pass laws every month for controls and limits that protect the vulnerable. restricting pornography that uses or targets children should not be seen as an affront to true freedom. as a mother, i believe that robbing children of their innocence is a crime. indeed, the christian gospels say it is worthy of a millstone around the neck. for a child, abuse, whether it is at the hand of a lecherous adult or the internet, becomes a psychological millstone that blights the child for life. with the use of technologies like mri and chemical screening, we now know that pornography alters children’s developing brains and stimulates the production of highly addictive brain chemicals. researchers have even likened the long-term use of internet pornography to the devastating effects of heroin. we must do what we can to make the internet safer. if yahoo and google can censor the web to suit a totalitarian chinese government, they can certainly censor the web for the benefit of our children.
mr president, my oral amendment is to avoid ambiguity in recital c. i propose to insert the word ‘unfortunately’ between the word ‘whereas’ and ‘somalia’ and to replace the words ‘with a view to restoring order’ with the words ‘with a view to taking charge’. that is in an effort to ensure that nobody would interpret recital c as justifying the setting-up of radical islamic courts with a view to restoring order. i hope that the other groups will agree with the ppe-de group on that issue. i believe it is a sensible and understandable oral amendment.
mr president, it is useful to meet our constituents during the summer break, and in two-and-a-half hours last friday i heard of the plight of irish dairy farmers resulting from the over-severe implementation of cap reform by the commission and the council. the implications of this are very traumatic, because incomes will fall despite the compensation that is on offer. to ask farmers to increase their scale to make up that difference is just neither practical nor possible. i urge this house to stress to the commission and the council that, while we may be counting beans in terms of budgets, they are dealing with people and families and their actions are having a very severe impact on them. this is a matter i will be raising directly with the committee on agriculture. i would stress again that these are difficult times for farmers. what the commission is doing is over-severe, and it is particularly important that we watch the budget for 2007.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to say a few words on this proposal for a council directive on passenger car related taxes. i wish to congratulate the rapporteur in her absence on an excellent report, which, i believe, is a very significant contribution to the debate. i personally agree that taxation is the responsibility of the individual member state. however, the thrust of this proposal would improve the functioning of the single market and, crucially, would greatly assist in our goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions, without compromising the ability of any country to levy its own taxes. ireland has one of the highest rates of vrt in europe, with almost 10% of the total tax take coming from motorists. last year its figures for vrt alone were in excess of eur 1.5 billion, an increase of over 20% on the previous year, so the fact that ireland will not be supporting this proposal will come as little surprise. but this is a short-sighted and short-term viewpoint, and we need to look at the wider implications. i believe vrt is an anti-free market mechanism and one of the reasons why the eu passenger car market has not been functioning well. indeed, consumers in nine member states, including ireland, have been penalised by a measure which has reduced their purchasing choices. the commission’s proposal is a sensible one, particularly from an environmental perspective, since taxes levied on motorists would be linked to carbon dioxide emissions from the vehicle. indeed, i agree with the suggestion in the report that other pollutant emissions should be part of the equation, although it might be difficult to include this measure initially. furthermore, i think it is an excellent idea that member states be encouraged to apply fiscal incentives for passenger cars, in order to encourage the placing on the market of cars and vehicles that meet energy-saving and energy efficiency requirements. when governments set targets for reducing co2 emissions, they have a responsibility to introduce mechanisms and structures that will facilitate this. the commission’s proposal is an excellent one and i fully support it.
mr president, i hope the commissioner appreciates how happy the irish car buyer would be to see vrt eliminated. this tax has made cars unnecessarily expensive in ireland. i am totally against eu interference in regulating national taxes. however, as ireland levies vrt, it is a draconian tax that has no rationale except to bleed irish car owners of money – a lot of money from citizens who, for the most part, do not have a public transport system that will allow them to manage without a car. to collect car taxes for a reason like environmental protection makes sense. people can understand that and to some extent they can control the rate they pay by their choice of car. the irish government should make this change with or without europe. however, we must make this shift carefully and think of all the ramifications. the move to use road tax to effectively promote energy-efficient cars by charging significantly more tax for cars with bigger engines that use more fuel will mean that drivers will have to pay more for bigger and more powerful cars. however, these tax penalties will have a negative impact on families. any family with more than three children, or families with grandparents or other household members, are dependent on bigger cars like people carriers and therefore will be forced to pay the consequences. i am advocating a dual system in which the road tax increases with engine size and, within each engine size category, by energy efficiency. the family can then reduce the tax they have to pay by choosing a more energy-efficient car which satisfies the family’s transport needs. we must ensure that measures are both environment- and family-friendly.
mr president, as you have probably gathered from the number of irish contributors, this is a very vexed issue in my own country. in ireland we consider vrt to be a national tax and we consider the mix of taxation, the rate of taxation, to be a matter falling within national competence. having said that, we are now holding out a prospect of abolishing vrt and perhaps somewhat dishonestly indicating to irish consumers that at last they may get a car at a much cheaper rate, in much the same way as in other member states. in fact, it was one of the carrots dangled during the single market debate in europe – sign on here, vote yes, you will have cheaper cars. what we are talking about here will be budget-neutral, that has been said and on that we all agree and it will be the motoring public that will bear the cost of the tax if vrt is abolished. in ireland vrt totals eur 1.15 billion, which is a huge amount in a very small country. i do not want to see that put on direct income tax or any direct taxes. if we need that money to run our country – and that is a matter for our national government – it must still be collected from the motoring public. we must be equitable and fair as to how that is done. having said that, i am all for balancing the taxation structure of motoring in order to decrease emissions - carbon emissions and particles and nox and all the rest, but how that is done in each member state is up to each member state to decide and this is what we must be very careful about. i would love to see this debate taken side by side with the debate tomorrow on national allocation plans in relation to our kyoto targets. we should be talking about sectoral targets for co2 emissions and here transport is one of the biggest sinners. it is in that context that we should be talking about taxation on passenger cars and indeed all vehicles. this lack of joined-up thinking between two different sectors or two different parts of the dg in the commission upsets me, because it is really part of tomorrow's debate as well and i would just like to make that point very clear. manufacturers of cars have been selling cars to countries like ireland, where there is a high rate of vrt, at a much cheaper rate than they have been selling them to other countries that have no vrt or very low rates of it. the manufacturers will increase the price of their cars, so our consumers may not benefit from the abolition of vrt.. would that they could, but let us be honest with them.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i am not at all surprised that the world trade organization talks have collapsed once again. for some time now, i have been calling for the exclusion of agriculture from these talks. agriculture makes up a mere 5% of world trade, yet the blame for the collapse of the talks is laid firmly at european farm gates. why should 5% hold back the other 95% of trade? it is time to remember that. i attended the doha round of talks in hong kong last december and before that those in cancún, and i informed this parliament of the false impression that is being created that developing countries would benefit from more access to eu markets. nothing could be further from the truth, and we are hearing it again in this chamber today. the developing countries have little to gain from such a gesture; in fact, the eu already allows free access to 50 least-developed countries as it is. the real winners would be the beef barons of south america, if we were to allow irish farmers to be sold out. the real losers in this situation would be the small european farmers who are already on the breadline. let us make no mistake about that. a recent survey of irish consumers, for example, revealed that just one in five people has confidence in food imported from outside the european union. this is not surprising. opening up the eu agricultural market any further will bring food security and food traceability into serious question. are we willing to accept the scenario of uncertainty regarding the food we feed our children, in the light of food safety scares such as mad cow disease, cjd, or avian influenza? are we willing to accept a free-for-all approach to the use of angel dust and other suspicious substances amongst brazilian beef farmers? we in ireland have recently witnessed the demise of the irish sugar industry. brazilian sugar barons are the beneficiaries of the recent sugar reform, while 4000 irish sugar beet farmers have been made redundant. in hong kong last december i witnessed korean farmers fighting for a livelihood which is currently being threatened by transnational grain corporations, who are bargaining under the guise of endeavouring to help developing countries. this is a fallacy. it is clear that the wto cannot succeed as long as we insist on playing russian roulette with our food supplies and with the livelihoods of small european and irish farmers. it is time to move on. it is time to exclude agriculture from the talks once and for all and not sell out european farmers.
mr president, i was always amazed at the commissioner’s optimism throughout these talks. many of us believed that they were doomed from the start, specifically because the eu gave too much too soon, while the us gave very little at the beginning and remained dogged in its position. there has been too much focus on agriculture, which you have said yourself, commissioner. too much blame is now being levelled at agriculture for this apparent failure of the talks. doha was oversold for its potential for lifting the poor out of poverty. i have said here before that the poor are used far too often in far too many negotiations. their interests were not being best served in the talks that have gone on to date. the price for eu agriculture and for eu consumers in terms of food supply is enormous – you have outlined it to us here this morning: downsizing by usd 20 billion a year. i wonder whether we could put names and faces on that downsizing. we are retracting from milk, poultry and grain markets, not to mention beef. i do not know many poor farmers who will gain from that, but i know many in the g20 who are not poor and who would gain significantly. in my view, no deal is better than a bad deal. if the world’s poor need food to eat and clean water to drink – and we know they do – then doha was never going to deliver that to them. i am sorry to say that, but that is the case. we need to add to that the real threat here for the european union. we have raised standards of food production; we have environmental and animal welfare issues. these were never on the table at doha, so we were never going to have fair trade for farmers globally. i have some questions to ask the commissioner, one of which is very specific. i shall answer the first myself: will world trade – free trade – deliver sufficient global food supply? i think not. we need to look after food production just as we are concerned about energy now. lastly, what about cap reforms? we have them on the table; we are going to have to give more. is that what we have ended up with at the table now, in giving too much too soon?
madam president, i fully support the rapporteur's excellent proposal to split the financial framework programmes into two specific programmes. this should help to ensure that both programmes are more focused and that each gets the level of visibility and funding it deserves. the daphne programme has been an important instrument in helping to raise awareness of and to combat violence against women, children and young people. in ireland, as elsewhere, violence against women is a very significant problem, with statistics from different reports indicating that one in four women have experienced some form of sexual violence in their lifetime. funding from daphne has had a positive impact on the work of many irish women’s groups. however, unfortunately, national funding for frontline services to assist women and children is still not adequate, with insufficient shelter accommodation for those at risk. i should like to mention some of the proposed amendments and my particular support for them. i am pleased to see that in amendment 14, along with other vulnerable groups, women with disabilities were specifically mentioned as being particularly vulnerable to violence. it is therefore crucial to ensure that measures are put in place to protect those suffering multiple discriminations. amendment 14 also mentions women living in poverty in rural or remote communities. outreach services need to be put in place so that these women and children can access the necessary services and be protected from violence. i am also pleased to see references in this report to trafficking and enforced prostitution, to children who witness violence, and to action specifically designed to prevent newborn children from being abused. however, in the final analysis, whether you are new born or elderly, citizen or migrant, rural or urban, nobody should be at risk of violence. indeed, the fight against violence should be placed within the context of the protection of fundamental rights as guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. finally, i would like to give my full support to the promotion of the european year against violence against women: awareness-raising is crucial.
in writing. violence against women, children and young people is an ever-increasing phenomenon and a fundamental breach of the human rights of some of the most vulnerable sections of our society. i particularly welcome the emphasis in the report on tackling the trafficking of people. approximately 80% of the victims of such trafficking are women and girls, and up to 50% are minors. my hope is that this strategy at european level can help assist and support those most at risk from violence.
in writing. vrt for ireland is a national tax and setting the rate of taxation is therefore a national competence. the irish rate of vrt has been sanctioned under eu law. it is not the right of ireland or any other member state or indeed the commission to decide upon the tax policy of member states. this report suggests that the abolition of vrt will be good for the irish consumer. this is not strictly true. ireland gains eur 1.15 billion from vrt. if it abolished vrt irish motorists would have to bear the costs of its abolition by paying a 20 cent increase in the price of petrol or diesel, or an increase from eur 400 to eur 900 in their annual motor tax. i do not believe this would be in the interest of irish motorists. i can see the benefits of introducing tax incentives to motorists to purchase vehicles with reduced co2 emissions and improved fuel efficiency. however, it should be up to each member state to decide how this should be done. preserving the flexibility of member states to decide what taxes to apply and at what rates is vital in achieving the social and economic objective of a country.
in writing. i support both objectives of this proposal for a directive: to improve the functioning of the internal market while also taking the opportunity to achieve dramatic reduction in co2 emissions. i also believe that the proposals could lead to significant improvement in road safety in that by providing motorists with an opportunity to pay less for new, more environmentally friendly cars, we would encourage the gradual replacement of the car fleet with safer vehicles. in voting for the riis-jorgensen report today i also fully support the much more imaginative environmental demands made in this report. whereas the european commission has called for graduated taxes designed to penalise carbon dioxide emissions, the european parliament calls for the focus to cover all pollutants and fuel efficiency. we need imaginative steps like this if we are to stand any chance of reducing the threat of global warming.
rapporteur. – mr president, this own-initiative report, prepared jointly by myself and mr silva peneda, with the essential support of our respective staffs, is a very important contribution to the ongoing debate about the future of europe and the role that europe’s social model can play in re-energising the unification of our continent. there are no doubts these days that the creation of the european union has been a very effective and successful peace process. what is not so readily acknowledged is that it has also been a successful prosperity process. in his book, ‘the european dream’, jeremy rifkin comments on the remarkable recovery of european countries following the second world war. the fact that europe outstripped the united states in growth terms for half a century up to the mid-1990s, by developing and putting into place a remarkable social infrastructure which ensured that prosperity could be shared, was a remarkable achievement. this success was not based on a dog-eat-dog approach, but on a social contract which ensured that working people would share in the wealth created, and their dependence on society generally would also benefit through the provision of universal public services. we are now into a new period – an unprecedented revolution in technology, in the age structure of our population, and in the globalisation of capital, where there is a growing need to create a transnational democracy that is capable of effective governance of those new phenomena. this report recognises that the challenges we face cannot be addressed by reheated dogmas, whether of the left or the right. that is not to say that there are no philosophical differences anymore, but it is to argue that these differences are being redefined by the objective conditions of the modern world we live in. this report is a restatement that europe’s core values of equality, solidarity, redistribution and anti-discrimination, care for the young, the old and the sick through universal public provision must be defended in the necessary reforms already under way; that our social model is not an obstacle to competitiveness and growth but is, in fact, a necessary ingredient if we are to deliver the kind of decent european society that our citizens clearly desire; and that the concept of ‘flexicurity’, pioneered by my colleague mr rasmussen in denmark, can help facilitate reforms by preventing people from tumbling into poverty as a result and can, if properly tailored to each member state’s needs, be an important tool in the process.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i, too, would like to join my colleagues in thanking the joint rapporteurs for their work on this very important report. i welcome the commissioner to the house also, because eventually the commission will have to start implementing some of the things that we are talking about here. one of the key elements arising from the debate is the recognition at last that, unless the economic wealth can be created, together with the employment terms to guarantee jobs and security within those jobs and rights after those jobs, then the european social model is non-existent. as my colleague, mr andersson, rightly pointed out, there is not just one single model, but a variety of different ones. the one thing they all share is the necessity for solidarity between all peoples within the individual countries and across the european union. the idea of protection for those who are most vulnerable within our society is at the very core of what the european social model should be about. when you look down through the list of issues and areas that need to be covered, of course there are always difficulties that will arise, whether it is with regard to long-term unemployment, youth unemployment, female unemployment, social welfare provision, protection with regard to access to housing, access to education and training, or more recently the demographic situation and the pensions crisis that is looming before us. no matter how you try and come up with solutions to deal with the problems that are there, the one thing we should learn from the practical experience we now have of a number of these various social models is that one size does not fit all. there is a need to allow for flexibility within those models, to guarantee that the core values of putting the human being at the very centre of what the social model is about remain paramount. but, also, when we speak about harmonisation of taxation or harmonisation of the minimum wage, this obviously militates against creating equality, because countries that at present have lower wages and a high level of social protection could be made uncompetitive, with business and companies being attracted elsewhere and jobs lost. that is why this flexibility must be there. i give my support to the report in general and i am delighted with the comments it makes. one area of ongoing concern is the need to ensure the link between economic performance and the generation of wealth, which must then be utilised for social protection. you cannot have one without the other and when we speak about raising taxes, you can have the highest taxes in the world, but if you do not have companies employing people and paying taxes, then you cannot provide social protection afterwards.
(gue/ngl). – mr president, first of all i would like to welcome this discussion. there are two standard platitudes that are delivered whenever the european social model or social policy is discussed. the first is that a social europe is at the heart of this project. the second is that it is simply a matter of creating economic resources and that a rising tide will lift all boats. both of those propositions are utterly discredited and if you look at the figures for poverty, for homelessness and for social dislocation in this union, you will understand why. the reality is that social europe has been very much a ‘frill’ or an ‘add-on’ to the broader game plan of this union. i believe that, if we are to have a real and fruitful discussion about social policy, we have to ask the fundamental questions and the difficult questions relating to eu macroeconomic policy. what has the effect of liberalisation and privatisation been on those who are marginalised? what about the creeping abandonment of the welfare state? and, is it any wonder that there is such a glaring gulf between the european citizen and the european union, when the policies we pursue disenfranchise people. i very much hope that this report will serve as a springboard for the much deeper discussion and analysis that we require.
mr president, i welcome this opportunity to come back and respond briefly to the debate so far. i have to say i am relieved that mr clark and mr helmer find the report irrelevant, because i was afraid that there was so much praise for the report and that i must have done something wrong, if they also found it acceptable. i am really pleased with that. i am curious and dumbfounded that some of my colleagues on the left in the gue/ngl group also seem to think the report is irrelevant, but perhaps that is a reflection of the point i made that the dividing line between left and right is changing in this modern world of ours and that it is not that there are no differences but that the lines are shifting. mr crowley welcomed the report. however, at the risk of losing a vote, i should say that perhaps he misunderstands the report, because, while the issue of support for the poor is important as part of the european social model, i do not agree – as he seems to – with the theory that the rising tide lifts all boats, because, in fact, it does not. we do not have the time to go into that. however, it seems to me that what is intrinsic to this report is the point that social policy is intrinsic to a prosperous europe and that it is not a question of one or the other, or of waiting for one to deliver the other: we must deliver both and we must find ways to do that through reform.
on behalf of the ppe-de group . – mr president, i welcome the commission and the presidency to this debate. i have to ask why there was this last-minute inclusion on the agenda last friday, without the proper teeing-up among the various political groups. was it purely technical, to comply with your obligation to revert to parliament by 30 june, even though you are a couple of months late? but i will move on as time is too precious to waste. the ppe-de group fully supports the emissions trading scheme and our objectives under kyoto and agrees with the need to keep downward pressure on every one of the 25 member states to meet their targets in relation to greenhouse gases, as agreed under kyoto. please take that as a given. i note what the commissioner has just said concerning the conclusions of the 2000 review: ‘the system works well, the results were good, the system is up and running’. commissioner, i do not know whether this is a pr exercise and we do not really want the truth to get out to those who might be listening. i completely support a fully effective ets, as do all my colleagues, but the system is not working well. i know these are early days, which is a genuine caveat for anything we say after what has been a very short 18-month review period. the theory is good, but the practice has been awful and has not matched the theory at all. we need to look at this situation urgently. the idea was that at the end of each year the amount of carbon dioxide actually emitted had to match the amount of emission permits a company surrendered to its government. that was to keep pressure on companies to decrease their emissions. what has happened? in the first year, 2005, the actual carbon dioxide emissions of 21 countries were 44 million tonnes short of the amount of co2 emissions permits allocated by the 21 governments in question. that resulted in absolutely no downward pressure to reduce emissions and in a very volatile carbon credit market that fluctuated from eur 31 per tonne down to eur 8 per tonne and back up to eur 16 per tonne. i agree that we need a properly functioning carbon credit market. we need industry to buy into what we are saying. we need credibility, in practice as well as in theory. could you please detail any amendments you are proposing in the directive before the second period of naps? by the way, ireland also submitted its nap on 13 july and you did not mention its name in the countries that you read out. i would like you confirm that it has done so. perhaps they are telling me whoppers in my home country!
i want to thank the commissioner for his reply, and even though he said it would take him longer to put all the measures together, i am still encouraged by his response. commissioner, is it not a fact that the objectives of the lisbon agenda are far from being attained, and that we are still lagging behind in measures necessary for the coordination and progress of smes under those objectives of the lisbon agenda that we initially laid down?
i wonder, commissioner, whether you have ever considered the possibility of reversing the burden of proof. my question is that our current system for regulating the wild bird trade requires proof that it is harmful to wild populations before it can be suspended. why can we not establish the sustainability of a wild bird or a species before trade begins? in fact, that should apply to all species, not just birds. also, the eu prohibits trade in its own wild birds under the birds and habitats directives. at the same time, we continue to adopt a cavalier approach towards the biodiversity of less developed countries through this trade, even though there is a ban for the moment. is that an acceptable way to continue?
member of the commission. mr president, i very much appreciate parliament’s active participation in the consultation on the commission’s green paper on mental health. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr bowis, for his excellent report. it is almost a year since the commission presented its green paper on improving the mental health of the population. the green paper was also a response to the who ministerial conference, which involved all eu member states. in the declaration it adopted, the conference called upon the commission to support the green paper’s implementation. the green paper presented mental health as a central part of overall public health and a key determinant of quality of life in the european union. it argued that public mental health was also a key factor in the attainment of the eu’s strategic objectives – prosperity, solidarity and social cohesion, as well as justice. european values and the european social model demand that we give the necessary support to those who suffer from mental disorders and to promote social inclusion. perhaps this is one of the basic messages to emerge from the consultation process and from the report and resolution, namely that tackling social inclusion and the stigma attached to mental health problems is a key factor in our efforts to deal with this whole question. because of the stigma attached, people who suffer from mental health problems do not admit to them, do not seek help. as a result, not only do they not get treatment, but also the reality and effectiveness of the statistical data are distorted, which in turn means that the matter is not always a priority for member states and governments, since sometimes the figures may appear misleadingly low. therefore, dealing with this stigma and dealing with social inclusion is not just a human rights issue and not just an obligation, but can also have practical effects in our efforts to give priority and emphasis to actions and activities designed to tackle this problem. the green paper pursued three objectives. one was a broad discussion of the importance of exploring whether a on mental health strategy should be developed at eu level and identifying what the priorities of such a strategy should be. we held a full consultation. we had more than 150 contributions. one of the most important contributions, of course, will be parliament’s resolution. the draft report that has been tabled for today’s debate addresses mental health in its full complexity. i welcome the fact that it includes a number of very concrete suggestions. that is very important and helpful to us for the next steps we are to take. i agree with almost all the points contained in the report and the commission will give due consideration to these proposals when deciding on the next steps to be taken. we are now in the process of analysing the results of the consultation and as of yesterday, if i am not mistaken, all the contributions are available on our public health website. a document summarising the consultation outcomes will be prepared and published in the autumn. i can say at this stage that the preliminary results of the consultation showed very strong support for the development of an eu mental health strategy. i hope to present a commission white paper on mental health during the first quarter of next year presenting a strategy and proposing a framework for sustainable cooperation between member states, policy fields and the relevant stakeholders. i am firmly of the opinion that what we need most in order to promote positive mental health in the community and encourage social inclusion is dialogue, consensus-building and more importantly, action. that is extremely important. raising awareness and exchanging approaches and good practice are important steps and in the long term can be more powerful than any other initiatives. i look forward to the debate. once again, i thank parliament for this initiative.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, commissioner, i have worked for many years on issues of concern to people with disabilities and those who serve them. some progress has been made for some people with some disabilities. sadly, this progress has not for the most part been shared by people who experience mental illness. judging from the keen interest in the committee on employment and social affairs, members are aware that in our very midst people with mental illness are being subjected to the inhuman abuses of involuntary institutionalisation and hospitalisation, compulsory drugging and other medical treatments, physical restraint and force, while also being subject to discrimination in the workplace, exclusion in the community and suspicion on the part of public services. fortunately, there was a real sense in the committee that this must change, that priority must be given to approaches to treatment that enable people to achieve remission and recovery, as well as to inclusion, the prevention of mental illness and the promotion of mental health. finally, there must be recognition that every human person is valuable and worthy of respect and that this respect demands that we allow people to speak and decide for themselves whenever humanly possible. as we work through the process of formulating a european mental health strategy, the most important question we should ask ourselves is: will this make someone’s life better? i should like to congratulate mr bowis on his report, which contains many good things: an admittance that pharmaceuticals can cause more mental illness than they cure; a recognition of the importance of childhood for mental health with a call for support for families; a recognition that employment can affect mental health for better and for worse; and the need to consult those who have recovered from mental illness to learn how recovery happened. this is a good start but, if we are going to truly help someone with this strategy, then we must take into account the whole person and to do so the strategy will have to include concepts like nutrition and failure, especially student failure, and for this reason i particularly support the amendments by mrs breyer. we also need to look at concepts as yet unmentioned, such as hope and fear, creativity and expression, faith and spirituality. it amazes me that we can write a whole strategy without ever mentioning the words ‘spirit’ or ‘spirituality’. it is important for us to accept that there are moments of crisis, sorrow and strain in all of our lives and that when we experience them we may need support and we may need understanding, but we do not always need a diagnosis and a drug. getting it right is so important. when we consider suicide, then we see that getting it right can even be a matter of life and death.
mr president, i should like to thank both the commissioner, for an excellent green paper, and mr bowis for his report, which has added even more to what was an excellent standing start. thank you, john. your particular interest and feeling for this subject is inspirational to many of us here. health services and healthcare are individual member state competences, but under article 152, we in europe have a mandate as regards promotion, prevention and the dissemination of information. that is exactly what this debate on the green paper can do: ensure that we open up this whole area, focus on the major problems of stigma and discrimination and exchange best practice and epidemiological figures on this area. commissioner, you mentioned that the figures do not show the real burden of the disease of mental health. because of the stigma and discrimination, many do not access treatment and help. i would fully agree with you. in fact, i would seriously question our data. i would say that they reflect probably half – being generous – of what the real burden of the disease could actually be. most employees with acute or chronic depression, for example, hide it from their employers for fear of the adverse impact on their careers. therefore, raising awareness, changing attitudes and, above all, exchanging best practice is an enormous contribution we can make here to this most important area. the figures are startling: 18 million people across the eu suffer from severe depression; 58 000 of our citizens commit suicide every year – roughly equivalent to two or three small towns in any rural area being obliterated every year. ten times that number attempt suicide. one in four of us is likely to experience mental health problems at some point in our lives and over 27% of adults in europe are affected by mental health problems every year. depression and anxiety disorders, including stress and eating disorders, are the most common mental health problems experienced. studies estimate, frighteningly, that by 2020 neuro-psychiatric disorders, with depression at the top of the list, will be the highest-ranking cause of illness in the developed world. a major portion of that will be caused by the ageing of europe, which will pose a particular challenge. mental ill health is preventable and treatable. we need to encourage early intervention and ensure that, if possible, as was suggested by my colleague mr bowis, we look again at legislation on discrimination to see if we can include discrimination against those with mental health problems as part of that package. we need to do all we can with the competence we have. unfortunately, with the european constitutional treaty not moving as some of us would have hoped, our competence is fairly limited. however, that does not stop us joining up the dots in the relevant areas of european law that exist at the moment. above all we must open up this subject and be inclusive to those who are suffering in this particular area. ignoring this problem and not providing the facilities and treatment that are needed costs europe three to four per cent of our gdp per year. thank you, commissioner, for your work and, above all, thanks to my colleague mr bowis for his excellent report.
mr president, i am pleased to speak on this timely and well-considered report and i congratulate the rapporteur. firstly, i agree that the added value of a community strategy on mental health is primarily in the field of prevention and awareness-raising and that any proposals from the commission should involve partnership and consultation with all relevant parties. an essential element of any strategy will be to eliminate the stigma associated with mental illness and this will require a multifaceted approach, including information, education, anti-discrimination legislation, community-based approaches and responsible reporting by the media. i fully support the proposal in the report that member states should work together to implement effective strategies to reduce suicide, because this is not only a national or european issue but also a global one. in ireland, suicide is the most common cause of death in 18-24 year olds. unfortunately, it is the highest within this age group in the eu. such deaths devastate families and tear the heart out of communities. a recent survey conducted in my own area of north leitrim and west cavan entitled ‘men on the border’, painted a distressing picture of the reality of life for many single, older men, with 56% or respondents saying that they knew somebody who had committed suicide. given that i always like to link what we do here with what is happening in our constituencies, i am pleased to say that this survey was partly funded by the eu and i hope that its recommendations will help to improve the situation. finally, while expenditure on mental health is a national competence, i believe that we need to highlight the sizable differences in mental health expenditure in individual member states and i am not proud to say that our own levels in ireland are inadequate. i agree with the rapporteur that public pressure is needed to ensure adequate expenditure to promote mental health and to prevent mental illness.
in writing. mental health is an extremely important issue for each of us, whether we are sufferers, carers or service providers in this field. the role of legislators in this area is even greater as we in the eu and member states can with consultation and partnership create a better and brighter future for sufferers, family and carers. for too long mental illness has not been at centre stage in our legislative process and, as is clear from the commission’s green paper and its startling findings, public consciousness through more informed communication is slowly coming to realise that mental illness and its consequences affect the core of our population. 25% of the eu’s and ireland’s population experience at least one significant episode of mental ill health during their lives. it is time to react! i warmly welcome this green paper as a european debate-launcher on learning disabilities, major depression, suicide, imprisonment of suffers and the affect of inappropriate imprisonment so that member states can share research and best practice for the benefit of our citizens. since the 1980s ireland has advocated a policy of de-institutionalisation, aiming to develop a modern mental health service via a community-based system, promoting mental health, giving the mentally ill as independent a life as possible and providing comprehensive healthcare, moving away from psychiatric hospitals. (abbreviated in accordance with rule 163(1) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, i should like to thank the president-in-office of the council and the commissioner for their contributions so far. obviously this most recent war has brought home to us the horrors of conflict and the toll that it takes on human populations and human infrastructure. rather than reinventing the wheel and coming up with new ideas, we should reinvigorate the whole idea of the roadmap that was agreed between the eu, the united nations, the us and russia. that charted the way forward in terms of bringing about peace and stability not only between israel and palestine, but also amongst their neighbours, including syria, jordan, iran, egypt and lebanon. if we have seen anything over the last few months, it is the inability of the european union to speak with a single voice; it is the failure by certain member state governments within the european union to agree with the majority of other member states that has allowed this problem to continue and to get worse. at least now, late in the day, we have agreed to head the un peacekeeping force that is going to lebanon. however, now is a time for us to be braver, to look at new ideas and new ways of engagement. if our own history in europe has taught us anything, if our own experience of conflict resolution within the european union or indeed in the wider world has taught us anything, it is that only through negotiation and dialogue can we actually achieve a lasting and just settlement. there is now perhaps an opportunity for us to re-engage with the elected representatives of the palestinian people – hamas, with the lebanese government, with israel and with the governments of syria and iran to try to come forward with a deal. with regard to the middle east, the most important lesson for us of the last six months has been our failure to speak properly, with a single voice, and to give a clear message to all those countries – whatever they try – that if they do something wrong, action will be taken by the european union against them. by action i do not mean offensive action by the military, but with the strongest weapon we have, which is moral persuasion and the economic support that we give to those areas. commissioner and president-in-office, now is the time to be brave. now is the time to chart the new way forward and to dust down the roadmap, invigorate it and make it new for the 21st century.
mr president, despite the very welcome efforts of the commission and indeed of the united nations, it is difficult to display optimism in this dark period. israel, a state that prides itself on its democratic credentials, launched with impunity a destructive war against a neighbouring, struggling secular democracy, destroying its infrastructure and killing its citizens, mostly innocent civilians. it has also used inhumane cluster bombs. how can we describe the bombing of qana except as a war crime? and yet israel continues with impunity to maintain an air and sea blockade of its victim while continuing to squeeze the economic and political life out of gaza, not to mention the killing of 200 palestinians under the cover of the war on lebanon. i do not dismiss the malign role of hizbollah in all of this, nor indeed – as has not been mentioned so far – the malign influence of the united states in encouraging israel in its actions. i believe that israel must expect to pay for the reconstruction of lebanon. it must release palestinian monies and it must face an international inquiry into its actions in relation to lebanon. i also believe that an international peace conference that does not carry a price for failure for the protagonists in the middle east will not succeed, nor will it get off the ground. i am talking about a price in terms of money, in terms of trade and in terms of arms supplies. unless there is a price to be paid, those protagonists will not come to the table and will not make a deal.
mr president, it is a time of crisis in the middle east but also perhaps a time of opportunity. europe faces three connected challenges in this regard. first, the unifil peace-keeping/peace enforcement mission in lebanon. un forces led by the eu must ensure that united nations resolution 1701 is enforced and that, through cooperation with lebanese troops and political leaders, hizbollah can be disarmed. unifil ii must also ensure that further arms are not smuggled into lebanon to rearm any groups and that lebanon’s sovereignty is respected at all times. unifil ii must be successful. a lot is riding on that and failure would have disastrous consequences for the region as a whole and for europe. on the issue of committing troops to unifil ii, some eu countries have been generous to date. however, most commitment has come from larger eu nations and i hope we will see future commitments from smaller countries, particularly those who have significant experience of peace-keeping in lebanon in the past. in that context, i continue to call on my own government in ireland to at least make an offer of troops, even if the numbers are small, because i believe they have a positive role to play. the second challenge is to help rebuild lebanon after the devastation of the summer. the eu is already responding in this regard, but we should realise that we have an opportunity here, that in rebuilding lebanon’s infrastructure we can also build the eu’s reputation in the region as a whole, as well as in the minds of the lebanese people. the third challenge is the wider political challenge of the need to provide stability in the middle east generally. in order to do this, we must grasp the difficult nettle of forging a way forward in the israel-palestinian problem. the wider political roadmap is still there on paper and so we do not need to reinvent the wheel here. however, we need to play our part in finding ways to create fresh enthusiasm and acceptance for the roadmap as the way forward and, in this regard, the difficult task of engaging with syria will be necessary.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, i have to thank the european parliament for this debate, which has been, as always, very colourful, interesting and pertinent, as well as wide-ranging. for me, the essential message has been that the european parliament is appreciative and supportive of the council’s efforts to end the conflict in lebanon, to oversee the restoration of full lebanese sovereignty and to facilitate a return to the middle east peace process. indeed, if anything, you want the european union to do even more; to be more coherent, to be more efficient. as president-in-office of the council, i share this desire for us to speak not only with a single voice, but one which will be heard in all quarters and noted by all parties. realistically speaking, even in the best of times, there will always be limits to what the european union can do acting alone. indeed, as a community committed to effective multilateralism, that is as it should be. the eu does not seek, in this conflict in the middle east, to act by itself. in lebanon, we are working with others and we have to bring others on board to work alongside us. that is the role of the european union, but we also have to take the initiative and show leadership. it should be remembered, too, that we would never seek to bypass or replace the united nations. we are there to support the united nations, to help it to bear its responsibilities. in this respect, the european union has been able to live up to those expectations. i have also read carefully parliament’s motion for a resolution on the middle east, which i assume and hope will be adopted unanimously. i regard it as a very good resolution, fully in line with what we have been trying to do and will continue to do in the council. it shows the ability of the european union, and of the european parliament, to concentrate on the essentials and give a message that will prompt all those involved in the peace process to engage in it fully. (applause)
president of the council. mr president, i would like to return briefly to the humanitarian aspect, which was also discussed in this debate. we visited the site with commissioner louis michelin a few weeks ago and it was very clear that the suffering of civilians on both sides of this conflict has been immense. it is very important and significant that the european union, that is the commission and the member states together, commit themselves from the outset to providing substantial financial support to lebanon in this crisis, both in terms of emergency humanitarian aid, the early recovery phase now under way and in terms of longer-term reconstruction. in this context, it should be remembered, and we have stressed this everywhere, that the humanitarian situation in gaza is also very difficult. it is very important that the lebanese government has a central and leading coordinating role in the long-term reconstruction and it is therefore good that a new unit has been set up in the office of prime minister siniora to carry out this coordination. the reconstruction also requires a thorough needs analysis, which the union will be carrying out in cooperation with lebanon. it is quite clear that peace is also a key condition for improving the humanitarian situation and that is why a comprehensive and long-term political solution to the whole problem of this region is also needed. (applause) i would like to thank the
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i should like to thank everyone for this discussion. it has been an excellent one and given us great support. nearly everybody said that there can be no military solution to the conflict and that there can only be a political solution. now, with the european union having again undertaken to move forward with an initiative, it is highly important to have gained your support for adopting a broad approach, for looking at the possibility of going to the root causes and for eventually finding a comprehensive solution. that is the overall picture and i thank you very much. i should just like to answer two or three specific remarks. firstly, the commission believes that we should work together with israel and not suspend the association agreement. we believe it is very important to work with the israelis in order to exert an influence, and that we must engage with them, not the contrary. regarding mr tannock's point, nobody has been able to provide firm evidence of eu support for the palestinian authority being diverted improperly from its intended purpose. with regard to hizbollah, it is clear that our money will go directly to the lebanese government or to organisations that work with it because, as i have said, we want to empower the lebanese government and to give the country back its sovereignty.
in this middle east crisis, as in so many before in this area and around the world, the innocent have suffered most for their leaders’ ambitions. hizbollah will claim that it is attempting to retake the golan heights, and israel will claim that it is retaliating for these incursions by bombing lebanon. the difficulty is that everyone has some justification for taking action, but there is no acceptable justification for displacing tens of thousands of innocent israeli and lebanese civilians. when we see the children killed in qana, all justifications seem petty and shallow. the irish army was stationed in lebanon for many years as a peacekeeping force, and there is a great affinity between the irish and the lebanese because of this. we as a country have become familiar with lebanon through family members or friends or neighbours who were stationed there and we feel the damage inflicted on their country all the more for this. these people do not want this life; they want peace and safety for their families and a chance to live their lives. there is no military solution to these problems, only peaceful solutions. and whether that means imposing sanctions on all involved until they end their war or offering advantage to those who end it, we who have the capability must act.
president of the council. mr president, the council is listening to parliament's position and is listening very carefully. these are also matters which must of course be considered now as we prepare to renew this partnership and cooperation agreement and to create a mandate to renew this agreement. but i believe that, in addition to being very pragmatic, this cooperation can be even more strategic than it is today and that the european union and russia have the potential to act in parallel and as partners to each other, also in global fora.
president of the council. on 15 june 2006, the european parliament adopted its first reading resolution on the framework decision on the seventh framework programme under the codecision procedure. the council, for its part, reached a political agreement on the seventh framework programme for research on 24 july 2006, and this agreement reflects the outcome of the european parliament's vote. reference is made to document 11978/06 which sets out the political consensus reached on the seventh framework programme. the purpose of the mou is to prepare the second reading of the seventh framework programme, which is scheduled for autumn and which is likely to lead to the adoption of the seventh framework programme before the end of the year. community support under the community framework programme for research shall be granted only to research projects falling within the scope of the programme and having passed the selection procedure. the research must, of course, comply with the legislation of the member states in which it is to be carried out.
thank you for your answer, madam president-in-office, i appreciate it. my question really refers to a situation in which a country does not have a legal framework in place. looking at what was voted through here in parliament, we talked about research being subject to strict licensing and control in accordance with the legal framework of the member state, but what if it turns out that a member states does not have a legal framework in place? in my own member state, ireland, for example, there is no law governing embryonic stem cell research. where, then, does that leave this decision by parliament, and would the council suggest that all member states would need to put such a framework in place immediately?
thank you for your response, president-in-office. on foot of your final comment, particularly with regard to what we saw happening in london recently, there did not seem to be any coordination with other member states in the european union. perhaps they were not at the same level of threat as the uk on that occasion. however, there is still a lot of uncertainty concerning the security measures in airports. these depend on where you are travelling to and from. perhaps there is now a necessity for closer cooperation and coordination concerning these matters. at tampere will the transport ministers be included in these discussions on how to protect civil aviation from these threats?
first of all, i congratulate the presidency-in-office for the work that has been carried out in organising the coordination between the member states of the peacekeeping group that is going to lebanon. following on from what you have said, president-in-office, on the division of labour – some countries are obviously more able to provide logistical support than others – i would like to ask whether there is any coordination as regards who can best implement the various facets of the operations, or is that still a matter for bilateral relations between member states?
mr president, i want to thank the rapporteur, mr belder, for his work in considering the raft of amendments linked to this report. it has not been an easy job to construct an eu-china report, because there are a multitude of factors that have needed to be considered. the final result needs to be a balanced one that reflects the developing, positive relationship between two huge economic blocs while not shying away from the real and difficult concerns that exist on issues of human rights and the promotion of democracy; issues which we in parliament claim to be serious about. i am strongly in favour of continuing to develop a closer relationship with china. the eu is china’s largest trading partner, after all, and it is our second-largest trading partner. massive economic opportunities exist for both parties to grow and take advantage of new markets. therefore, anyone who advocates the isolation of china as a foreign policy strategy, for whatever reason, is being unrealistic. that being said, however, we must be firm and consistent in our efforts to ensure that with the developing trade relationship must also come democratic development and an increased respect for human rights. the two must go hand-in-hand. that is why, as a human rights spokesperson, i am so glad to see such a strong emphasis on human rights concerns in this report. i was relieved to hear mrs de keyser clarify that the pse group’s objections are not based on concerns over the references to human rights issues; but that was until i heard what mr ford had to say. the report is certainly not dominated by human rights concerns, but it does ask the hard questions, and rightly so, if we are to be taken seriously by china in relation to human rights issues, such as the need to guarantee genuine religious freedom; the concern at reports of widespread torture in chinese prisons and reports of inhumane, degrading treatment and internment without trial; the laogai system of detention centres and labour camps; forced compliance with family planning policy; censorship of the internet and recent reports of sourcing human organs from prisoners. i was delighted to hear the commissioner make a very strong statement in relation to that issue. in fact, i would congratulate her on her very balanced presentation this evening. these are serious concerns that demand our attention as we proceed to develop the closer relationship with china that we all accept is inevitable and desirable. (applause)
in writing. i oppose china’s one child policy and other human rights abuses. i do not support a one-china policy!
in writing. the humanitarian catastrophe witnessed in lebanon, with hundreds of deaths and injuries on both sides, damage to vital infrastructure and hundreds of thousands of people displaced has not ended with the ceasefire. it is clear that a just and lasting solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict is essential to the peace and stability of the entire region. strong and positive leadership is required to bring the middle east peace process back to the top of the international political agenda. the european union can have a role tin providing some of this leadership, including through rethinking its approach on aid to palestine and its relations with hamas.
on behalf of the ind/dem group . – mr president, north korea has one of the world’s most repressive regimes. this prison state is, as far as we can tell, run in the worst stalinist tradition, with starvation, terror and indoctrination. we read of horrors of the past regimes of pol pot and stalin and it haunts me to think that the same situation exists in north korea today. understandably, people risk their lives to escape. if thousands have escaped, how many more thousands have died trying? most people in north korea qualify for the un status of ‘persons of special concern’. if they manage to escape they must be given help and given the protection they need. thailand experienced the world’s solidarity only recently after the tsunami. it must show that same solidarity by not harassing north koreans who struggle to its borders, but thailand must be helped to bear this burden by others. the eu and european nations must be willing to give shelter and resources, too. might i remind this house that after the second world war we from the countries of western europe allowed polish soldiers from german prisoner-of-war camps to be returned and fed to stalin, who consumed them instantly, or slowly in siberian gulags. in the dire situation of north korea, we are being given an opportunity to make amends for the terrible wrong done to poland’s prisoners. in helping the north korean asylum seekers, by keeping them from being returned to north korea for imprisonment, forced labour or liquidation, we will be paying an old debt and making the right decision.
mr president, the partition of ireland has been a complete and abject failure, socially, economically and politically. the european union, it is said, is based on peace, reconciliation and the removal of borders. in order to further the stated objective, the eu has a responsibility to assist in the development of an all-ireland economy as a step towards irish reunification. my party, sinn féin, is launching a comprehensive document entitled ‘eu support for irish reunification’, outlining the practical measures we believe the union can take to help bring about irish unity. over the coming weeks and months, sinn féin will be promoting this policy throughout ireland and across the eu, beginning with the conference at the european parliament in brussels on 18 october.
mr president, i want to highlight what happened last week during the visit of the agriculture commissioner, mariann fischer boel, to the constituency i represent in the european parliament. i was not aware that the commissioner was there on thursday, but i heard of her visit friday morning on local radio. immediately i contacted the commission office in dublin asking for some information about her itinerary. i thought that a bit of joined-up thinking and working at european level would be beneficial, naive as i was. the commission office in dublin said that it could give me no information. after five phone calls to the commissioner’s own office, i was told on friday afternoon that even though this was a public visit, the information was private and unavailable. i had to wait until saturday to read details of her visit in a national newspaper. so what was private on friday was public on saturday. i was astounded. i could not believe that the public itinerary of a european commissioner on a visit to ireland could be classified as private. is that what plan d is about? is that dialogue? is this the same commission that encourages us to inform citizens about the proposed constitution? finally, as a first-time mep, maybe i have it wrong. maybe that is how the eu does its business. if it is, it is no wonder that citizens say no. if it is not, i would ask you to use your good offices to find out why a commissioner has effectively cut the lines of communication with individual meps. (applause)
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i should also like to wish mr sjöstedt well for the future. as a member of the committee on environment, public heath and food safety i support the strategy on air quality that has been set out by the commission. that strategy sets out a series of health and environmental objectives and emissions reduction targets for the main pollutants. it calls on the commission to bring forward a range of sector-based initiatives, including the following: reducing emissions from shipping; reducing emissions of ammonia from agricultural use; the extension of integrated pollution prevention and control measures for smaller units; more stringent emissions standards for vehicles, and the implementation of a national emissions ceiling directive. we all recognise the significant benefits that accrue from reduced air pollution and we support cost-effective integrated approaches to achieving improvements in air quality. undoubtedly greater investment in renewable energies and in the biofuel sector will also help to create a cleaner environment. my report on the future of the biofuels industry was recently strongly approved by the environment committee. key points that i made in that report included the following: biofuels emit between 40% and 80% fewer greenhouse gases compared to fossil fuels; biofuels offer new sources of income for farmers via sustainable and multifunctional agriculture of the kind the common agricultural policy purports to promote. the european union should be ambitious in the strategies it pursues to promote the use of biofuels. we must stimulate a greater demand for biofuels in europe and we must guarantee that the seventh eu r&d framework programme for the period 2007 to 2013 is geared heavily towards the promotion of the biofuels sector within eu member states. i believe that we can all recognise the potential of renewable energy as an important means to boost employment and create added value in rural areas. the decoupling of income support from production introduced by the 2003 common agricultural policy reform will help to facilitate the supply of energy crops. the advent of biofuels is good news for the agricultural sector in europe and in ireland and it is good news for the medium- to long-term protection of our environment. we need firm action in the european union to promote the biofuels sector. we know the importance of that sector. we know of the environmental benefits, so let us now go and collectively meet that challenge.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – mr president, as draftsman of this report on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, i believe that the policy initiatives in the european commission’s green paper on energy should be integrated into sustainable urban transport plans, particularly with respect to the promotion of biofuels. sufficient support needs to be given to the development of public transport using sustainable energy sources. in ireland alone, transport is the third largest contributor to co2 emissions. biofuels should represent 5.75% of our energy supply by 2010. in real terms, for example, again in my own country, ireland, 70 000 fossil fuel-burning cars will be taken off the roads. urban centres running public transport on biofuels have the opportunity to showcase the ease of use of those fuels, which will in turn increase demand from private companies such as taxis, and individual domestic use. in conclusion, i strongly believe that it is only through a policy of integration in the areas of energy efficiency and environmental protection that realistic targets can be set and achieved for urban areas.
the european commission with the help of, parliament and council, produces many strategies meant to give guidance and disseminate best practise. to ensure a european urban strategy is taken seriously is challenging. the financial interests in urban planning and development are such that it will take more than suggestions to ensure what we do now leads to safe liveable cities in the future. rather than the strategy including a statement that green space is important to urban design, i think it better to state we need, say, 15% green space in urban areas or so many metres per 1000 population. only a real target with weight behind it will stand up against land hungry developers. in my constituency is a public housing area built 30 years ago. planned in a way foreseen by this strategy, there is ample green space, wide easy to negotiate roads and community infrastructure. this area has been a model of good practise and has served a community very well. however, this area is threatened by city planners looking to build houses. only an urban strategy spelling out actual percentages will create sufficient green spaces in cities, and prevent the elimination of those presently enjoyed.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on this excellent report on key competences for lifelong learning. eight competences are listed in the report, but i personally believe that the fifth competence, ‘learning to learn’, is one of the more important, because lifelong learning is a process. it enables us not only to adapt to change but also to manage change, and i believe it helps us effect change. in this context, it not only contributes to achieving the lisbon objectives or to coping with globalisation, but also greatly enhances our quality of life. education is not just about knowledge and jobs: it is also about the development of the whole person. lifelong learning is an enabling process. it often gives people a second chance or, indeed, a third chance, or simply another chance. as a former teacher of 20 years, i am fully aware that formal schooling is just one part of education and that lifelong learning should be a natural continuation of that process. it is crucial that lifelong learning is accessible to all and that realistic, practical and accessible opportunities are available so that citizens may acquire basic skills or indeed enhance their existing skills. in this context, appropriate provision should be made to include, in particular, those with special needs, early school-leavers, people with a disability, the long-term unemployed and those with poor literacy or numeracy skills. a recent survey in my own area of north leitrim, west cavan, indicated low levels of literacy among men in rural areas in particular. this needs to be addressed as a matter of urgency, in particular because it is crucial to realise that poor literacy skills act as a barrier to political participation. i agree with a previous speaker that is not just an educational issue but a fundamental democratic one. (applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – madam president, i should like to thank mr rapkay for the enormous amount of work he has done on this report. indeed i welcome the presence this morning of president barroso on this important issue. it is a signal of the importance that the commission attaches to this issue. there is a broad consensus in parliament about the role of services of general interest, economic interest, and of their importance. there are divisions largely on questions of strategy and, in some cases, tactics. there is a commitment here – and also on the part of the commission – to ensure that any legislation or moves in that area will be by codecision. that is enormously important for the credibility of what we do in that area and for our legitimacy with our citizens in what we do in that area. i favour a framework directive. that was one of the decisions of the committee on employment and social affairs in its opinion on the report. however, two weeks ago parliament said ‘no’ to a framework directive. i believe it would be a mistake to try to push that through again. we need to find a pragmatic way of moving forward to ensure that we get clarity and an assertion of the principle you have outlined here today: that when it comes to a conflict between the right of the citizen to public services and the market, that is set down in legislation. we should not leave that issue to a decision by the courts on a case-by-case basis; otherwise we would end up with all kinds of conflicting results. it is in that context that i favour a framework directive. perhaps that can be found in another way. we need to search for that. i welcome your commitment to take action in the social services and health area. that is also an urgent matter.
mr president, this is an extremely interesting debate. as you know, the commission published a white paper on the issue, recommending that a framework directive be put in place to cover services of general interest. however, i do not agree with that approach; i believe that we should support regulations governing specific economic sectors. i would certainly agree with the idea in principle, but i believe that an overarching directive would cause enormous confusion in the debate, especially in the debate in member states. it could lead to hysteria if people do not understand exactly what it means. that is why i believe we have to be far more specific and look at the directive sector by sector, at the existing providers of services. what we are trying to do here is improve services for the citizens of europe so they will understand exactly what has been proposed; so that consumers will not be frightened that a directive which comes from europe could privatise or undermine existing services within their country. it is very important to approach this with clarity so people can understand exactly what has been proposed by both the commission and parliament. the eu has competence over matters such as telecommunications, transport and energy, but it does not have competence under the eu treaties to legislate in a broad capacity on matters governing the operation of social services, health and education within the different member states. the debate boils down to the powers of the eu institutions versus the competence of member states. we must be very careful with regard to that issue. it surprises me that some members are against that, whereas they are very much in favour of tax harmonisation between member states. to my mind that seems to contradict what they are saying in this debate. i do not believe in tax harmonisation. i believe that member states should control their own tax systems. that would encourage competition within the union.
in writing. our support for the beazley report reflects our desire to see a strong emphasis on the teaching of languages to inculcate a culture of multilingualism within our education systems in ireland. we also believe that all citizens should have access to detailed and unbiased information about the european union and how it affects their lives. sinn féin's support of the beazley report (a6-0267/2006) 'the european dimension of school teaching materials' should not be viewed as an endorsement of an increased role for the european union in the education system of member states. education is a responsibility for each member state and should remain so.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to welcome president barroso, commissioner rehn and president-in-office lehtomäki and join with my colleagues in welcoming the very sensible decision on romanian and bulgarian accession on 1 january 2007. despite all the difficulties, what has actually been achieved in both those countries in the last 12 to 13 years is phenomenal: the change of culture, the change of attitude, the willingness to engage, the openness and transparency. the enormous sea change in legislation alone to comply with the acquis communautaire is something that no existing member state could achieve in such a short time. we can speak about the theoretical importance of this enlargement and the abstract and political arguments. but the most important argument of all is for the 7.5 million people in bulgaria and the 22 million people in romania to be given the same opportunities that all of us in the european union have today, which we got when we were weaker or smaller countries or poorer economies with less developed judiciaries or economic and educational spheres. of course, there is more work to be done. ongoing reforms are needed; constant vigilance is necessary against the ability of mankind to interfere with, interrupt or corrode public life. that is why the safeguard clauses are there. but let us celebrate what has been achieved so far. i have only one small query and that concerns the ongoing difficulties in both countries with abandoned and orphaned children and children and young people with disabilities. they still do not get the levels of support, independence and protection they need. many years ago, a greater irishman than i am said, ‘nobody or no group has the right to put a stop on the march of a nation’. we do not have the right to stop the reunification of europe to correct the mistakes of history. like all good families, we should encourage those within our family who are trying to achieve more to pursue common ideals, goals and standards. we should welcome romania and bulgaria, congratulate their officials, their governments and their people for what they have achieved so far, remember the horrors that they have come through and look forward to the bright future that lies ahead for them and for us. (applause)
mr president, let me say at the outset that, as a member of the european parliament’s high level contact group for relations with northern cyprus, i am clearly aware of the sense of isolation the turkish cypriots feel in light of the rejection of the annan plan. in fact, i believe that the european union, together with the united nations, should continue to work to build peace and reconciliation on the island of cyprus. however, turkey too has serious obligations. for example, turkey must open its ports and airports to cypriot ships and aeroplanes. this is an obligation that turkey will have to honour in accordance with the accession negotiations. i also feel that turkey must consider repealing clause 301 of its penal code, which is being used to charge dozens of turkish writers with insulting turkishness. it is clear that significant efforts are needed in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms in turkey. these are serious issues. in conclusion, i must stress that they have to be effectively addressed by the turkish government sooner rather than later, because these policy matters are an intrinsic element of accession negotiations.
mr president, i spent last week in turkey with members of the human rights subcommittee. we were there to evaluate progress on human rights issues and the effects of reforms on the ground. on balance, mr eurlings has done an exceptional job in producing a tough but fair report on the story of turkish accession so far. on the armenian issue, i believe that it should be mentioned in the report, but it should not be introduced as a new precondition for membership, as we should remain committed to the original criteria if we are to stay credible. i am supportive of the principle of turkish accession, but recognise that it will be a long, hard road. we need to send a clear message with this report that, while eu membership is achievable, it will require significant and sustained commitment to reform. the two human rights concerns on which i wish to focus briefly are freedom of expression and the ongoing kurdish issue, which needs a new approach. on freedom of expression, despite reform packages – and we are now on the ninth – journalists and writers are not free to comment openly and critically on turkey or its government members. article 301 of the penal code remains in place to punish those responsible for ‘a public denigration of turkishness or state authorities’. prison terms of up to three years can be imposed. up to 60 such cases are currently being brought against writers by the state prosecutor. despite the high profile case of novelist elif shafak, which was thrown out of court last week, self-censorship will continue to be forced upon the press until article 301 is done away with entirely. on the kurdish issue, a guerrilla war using terrorism continues in the south-east – a kurdish area of turkey – and must be condemned. pkk terrorism and the massive military response in the south-east are inflicting real hardship on the region and its population. a new approach is required that uses diplomacy and politics instead of force.
the whole point of national allocation plans is to ensure that the eu emissions trading schemes deliver the best possible benefits for the climate. the lack of transparency in most member state processes to determine their first naps has resulted in legitimate questions and concerns on the validity of the data within the first set of plans. in the first year, 2005, the actual carbon dioxide emissions of 21 countries were 44 million tonnes short of the amount of co2 emissions permits allocated in those 21 countries. that resulted in absolutely no downward pressure to reduce emissions and in a very volatile carbon credit market. will you insist that the information and data sources used to set the targets in the second round of naps will be publicly available to allow independent verification and to ensure maximum benefit for the climate and fair competition across the single market?
vice-president of the commission. this is a very important question. many colleagues and ministers in tampere raised exactly this point. my answer was, and i repeat it here, that i am aware of the impact of delay and possible additional cost. that is why i have promised all the ministers to study very carefully the possibility of taking at least partial account of the additional cost of postponing the concrete operation of sis ii. for example, i can take the it scale systems into consideration. i have already postponed the possibility of spending money until the end of 2007. why not think about postponing it again, or try to have additional funding for this extra cost? i cannot, for example, co-fund salaries for people in the police, but i will give serious consideration to the security infrastructure.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its judgment of 18 june 2006 in case c 119/04, the court held that, by failing to ensure, at the date on which the period laid down in the reasoned opinion expired, that former tutors who had become language assistants and experts were granted recognition of their acquired rights, whereas such recognition was granted to all national staff, the italian republic had failed to apply all the measures resulting from the judgment of the commission in case c 212/99 italy, and had thus failed to fulfil its obligations under article 228 of the ec treaty. however, the court ruled that there was no reason to impose the fine as requested by the commission. at the time when it assessed the facts, it did not have sufficient information to find that the failure to fulfil obligations was still in existence. the commission would point out to the honourable member that the court has also held that the regulation with the force of law no 2/2004, which does not preclude the re-establishment of the careers of former foreign language teachers on more favourable terms, constitutes a permissible legal framework for each of the universities concerned to be able to re-establish the careers of those teachers retroactively. the court nevertheless acknowledged that it was still necessary to examine whether the measures adopted after the adoption of the regulation with the force of law had actually been applied. the commission services are currently analysing the content and consequences of this judgment, as well as the most appropriate way forward. one of the main questions to be resolved in this context is whether the acquired rights have in fact been fully recognised and restored, that is to say, including the repayment to those entitled to them, as the italian authorities state.
would the commissioner not agree that it is scandalous that no fines were imposed on the italian authorities by the european court of justice, given that it is now almost 20 years since the matter was first brought to the commission’s attention, and that on each occasion when the court has decided on this matter, it has found against italy; and that even today, as i understand it, in la sapienza university the criteria laid down have still not been complied with? also, would he not agree that it is extraordinary that the court can claim that insufficient evidence was provided by the commission to enable it to make a decision in relation to the imposition of fines? will the commissioner undertake to ensure, even at this stage, that the court’s decision will be reviewed and that the italian authorities will be obliged ... (the president cut off the speaker)
commissioner, given the announcement on romania and bulgaria, could you comment on the indications from the uk and ireland that they will not be opening up their markets to workers from these two member states? would you agree that many of the host countries need a policy of integrating workers from new member states, to be fair to their needs, and that we need to allow migrant workers with qualifications to progress in the careers for which they are qualified in the host member states?
mr president, this happens month after month. members have tabled questions to be answered by the commission, they sit here while you allow supplementary after supplementary and let commissioners run on at will and our questions are not reached. it is an outrage the way members of this house are being treated, it is absolutely outrageous. i protest strongly about this.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the progress programme plays an important role in promoting employment and social solidarity and it is all the more important as, increasingly, the drive to put profits before people excludes and marginalises so many. we are disappointed that parliament's proposals were not accepted in their entirety and that the council decided to weaken the programme in the areas of equality, migrant rights and, crucially, in relation to the budget. however, we believe it is important not to delay the implementation of the programme, otherwise much important work could not take place. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her efforts to strengthen the programme and i hope that in the future we can work together to prioritise eu action to combat social exclusion.
on behalf of the ind/dem group . – mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur for her work on progress, a new and comprehensive structure for social solidarity. for many years, social partners have been viewing social funding, human resources and even goodwill as a cake for which they, like hungry children, have felt compelled to compete. progress will hopefully take the competition out of the allocation of funding and other resources to social partners representing people who, because of their situation in life – physical, mental, social, ethnic, economic, employment or lack of employment, and so on – need the support of the wider community. i should like to stress once more that within progress there needs to be room for small and new ngos. they need to be encouraged to survive and to thrive. it cannot only be the older, bigger ngos, unions and organisations that are recognised and involved. needs change and new needs arise. we need to remember that the well-established groups were once small too.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, hopefully it will be equally on time! i welcome this new community programme, which brings together four previous programmes and seeks to streamline them and to provide more money for their implementation. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs jöns, my own group, commissioner špidla and the council for largely agreeing the amendments which parliament put forward and which the commission fought hard for. it is important that more money is available, but it is also important that we should seek here to enhance the socially-inclusive europe citizens clearly desire. i am particularly pleased that we have achieved the inclusion of gender mainstreaming in this new programme. i look forward to our sharing experiences with each other through organisations across europe at conferences and so on. it is a sad fact that the european union has, over many years, engaged in a lot of pilot projects, but a lot of the lessons that have been learnt in those projects and programmes have not been mainstreamed. hopefully the achievement of gender mainstreaming, at least in this programme, will ensure that gender mainstreaming is part of all policies developed by the european union and the member states.
mr president, i welcome the strategic guidelines on cohesion and the three priority areas identified. like everybody else, i compliment the rapporteur, mrs krehl. as an irish member of the european parliament and coming from an economy that has been transformed in 15 years from the weakest in the eu to one of the strongest, i wish to acknowledge the huge role that the cohesion and structural funds have played in bringing about the economic miracle known as the ‘celtic tiger’. the eur 308 billion for 2007-2013 will go largely to the new member states. ireland’s entitlement is reduced from eur 3.7 billion for 2000-2006 to eur 901 million, which is a barometer of our economic success. i have no problem with that. however, i should like to ask my colleagues in the new member states not to give their national governments the power to decide at central government level how and where the money is to be spent. they need regional structures with real development power, real decision-making powers for the regions. i speak from experience. i represent a constituency in ireland known as the bmw region. it is one of the poorest regions, bordering the atlantic ocean and largely mountainous. it is still the only region in ireland that retains objective 1 status, though that, through national economic performance, ceases on 31 december 2006. over the years, funds that flowed from the cohesion and structural funds and were intended for regions such as mine were channelled to dublin, the east and the south of the country and co-financed national development plans. i do not exaggerate. eur 680 million of co-financed monies intended for the bmw region have gone to dublin, the east and the south. why? because in ireland there is no regional authority with real decision-making powers. everything is decided in dublin at central government level. now is the time for the new member states to ensure that they have real regional authorities – not just paper tigers – otherwise they may find that the irish experience will be their experience tomorrow. commissioner hübner reiterated that this evening. i think it should happen, it must happen, and the commission has a role here as well in insisting that it does happen.
in writing. sinn féin looks forward to turkey joining the eu, if it decides to do so, on the same basis as other countries did including the respect for human rights, civil government, acceptance of the political rights of the kurdish population and the recognition of the republic of cyprus. we welcome today’s decision by the european parliament to recognise that the resolution of the problem caused by turkey’s occupation of part of cyprus is a major issue which must be dealt with before turkey can join the eu. while believing parliament’s position fell short of what it should have done on the question of the rights of the kurdish population in turkey, we are also glad to see the plight of the kurdish population in turkey being raised as a key issue in the accession negotiations between turkey and the eu.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, there certainly is unity in this chamber this afternoon on what should be done regarding darfur. three hundred thousand people have been killed and two and a half million driven from their homes. in the last month alone, 50 000 people have been driven from their homes. this really is a human catastrophe on a massive scale. the only solution is to put in place a proper united nations force with a very clear mandate. the only way we can get that is through aggressive diplomacy. how can it take 30 days, a period of time criticised at that stage as too lengthy, to get a un force in place in lebanon, yet with darfur we are talking about three years? it is because we are not as committed to this problem as we should be. yes, people blame the sudanese government, and it is to blame. its crimes have been outlined by previous speakers so i will not go over them. it is hiding, for trade reasons, behind the governments in china, russia, india and malaysia, which said that they would protect the sudanese government and veto sanctions against it. we must put pressure on these governments to make sure that they do not allow this to happen. they and everybody must help to try to stop what is happening in darfur. it is an absolute catastrophe. we need a un peacekeeping force at least 20 000 strong on the ground in darfur if we are going to stop it. the present force of 7000 african union troops is ill-equipped and, when you consider that the area they are covering is the size of france, it is quite impossible for them to police it. a proper un force is needed and it is needed quickly with a proper mandate. sudan requires a political solution very fast. the un and the eu must act. we must confront genocide and do everything we can to facilitate peace in the region. it has been ignored for too long, it is an absolute outrage and the government in khartoum cannot be allowed to get away with it any longer. it cannot hide behind other countries which say that they will veto any action taken against sudan. we must act to make sure what is happening is stopped.
mr president, darfur continues to be a humanitarian crisis. more than a quarter of a million innocent people have been killed since 2003, and a further 2.5 million people have been displaced. the un security council adopted resolution 1706 last month calling for the deployment of more than 22 000 peacekeepers in the region. however, the government of sudan remains opposed to such a force, accusing the un of an exercise in neo-colonialism manipulated by washington. this is nonsense talk and it is nothing more than the sudanese government playing politics with people’s lives. the mandate of the african union mission in sudan has been extended so that the un now has three more months in which to reach an agreement with the sudanese government on the need for a more effective multilateral force to protect civilians. however, in the likely scenario of sudan’s continuing to resist un efforts, the un must take a stronger stance. the un may need to consider, for example, military intervention under chapter 7, given its responsibility to protect civilians where national authorities fail to save their populations from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and/or crimes against humanity. the sudanese government has shown no willingness to protect internally displaced persons. in fact, there is strong evidence to suggest that it has assisted and sponsored attacks on refugee camps. for the time being, support for the 7000-strong au force is essential and the un has agreed to give logistical and material support. the arab league has finally pledged some economic support and eu member states also need to be generous in this regard. the eu has a responsibility to make darfur an ongoing priority for the un. more pressure is needed on china and russia in particular to play a more positive role in sudan. more civilians have died in darfur than in iraq and afghanistan combined. we all have blood on our hands because of the slow international response to what has happened to date. this is the toughest resolution that we have seen on darfur, but it is action that is needed. i hope we will not be looking back in a year’s time at another 100 000 dead.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, i welcome this motion for a resolution, which highlights the detrimental effect that high fuel prices are having on the fishing industry, resulting in job losses and severe problems in fishing communities. i agree with the proposal that a guarantee fund should be set up to ensure the stability of fuel prices in a level playing field for the community. i agree that the commission paper of last spring is insufficient, particularly in relation to short-term aid. that temporary tie-up funding is part of a rescue and restructuring package severely curtails its usefulness as a support measure; and that the de minimis aid ceiling has only increased to eur 30 000 over 3 years is also very restrictive and inequitable in relation to other sectors. the fishing industry is in crisis and the commission paper has not helped. it remains to be seen whether its medium- and long-term measures will be any better. i support recommendations that a review of the common organisation of the markets would provide for greater assistance to fishermen and their organisations to become more involved in the marketing and production of fish. i also agree that fish imports from outside the eu should be subject to the same conditions and should at least be legal. i agree that the eff reduced funding is insufficient. this will be a problem for the restructuring of fishing fleets by implementing decommissioning schemes.
madam president, i wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur for taking on the commission and for taking it to task in relation to its glaring omissions and its oversights. on the one hand we have the commission’s explanatory memorandum openly acknowledging that the north sea regional advisory council is a principal forum for advice in relation to the management plan for the preservation and regeneration of plaice and sole stocks in the north sea. then, on the other hand, in its document the commission makes no further reference to the nsrac’s opinion. i should be very grateful if the commissioner could tell me who is or was responsible for drafting the commission’s management plan. how can the commission justify omitting the body or agency it openly recognises as an authority on north sea fisheries and then studiously ignore the nsrac? as has been stated and restated time and time again, forums such as the nsrac were established in order to canvass and to utilise the wide body of expertise and opinion among people on the ground, people on the coalface, people who know the industry and to counteract the perception that brussels or strasbourg make policies which are often seen as ‘about you, without you’. is it any wonder that people turn off brussels or strasbourg? the nsrac has provided a bridgehead for bringing fishing interests, biologists and environmentalists together, getting them to agree collectively on ways of conserving stocks of plaice and sole. the proposals, if adopted, would increase the level of plaice stocks to above the precautionary levels of three to five years. i have to say that the rapporteur has other reservations about the commission’s approach, with which i agree, but time restraints do not permit me to elaborate on them, except to make a brief reference to the issue of msy – maximum sustainable yields. the commission’s proposal to launch a debate on msy in advance of agreement by the council and parliament simply is not on. it is simply not acceptable, mr commissioner.
mr president, organic food production is becoming increasingly important in my constituency in ireland. over the years, irish farmers have taken great pride in high quality food produced naturally. going organic has been a logical development for many of them. i am involved in several amendments. one seeks to limit organic seeds to less than 0.1% gmo contamination, adding another safeguard to the original regulation which only specifies that the parent plant, not the seed, should have been produced organically. the amendment to article 16 reinforces the definition of organic agricultural products. the commission’s proposal allows for a series of exceptions from organic production rules, such as the case of setting up organic farms or solving livestock management problems. this would lead to products that are not organic and not gm-free being on the market labelled as organic. instead we need to amend this article to control abuses, only allowing for exceptions in specifically stated and unusual conditions, such as an outbreak of avian flu. if we are going to ask consumers to choose organic, we are going to have to ensure that what they buy is actually organic.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner, and the rapporteur for his report. mr parish has made the point that consumers place great faith in the word ‘organic’ and in organic produce, and we need to ensure that those who want to buy organic are actually getting what they believe is a very pure product. but the truth is – and i am indebted to the food safety authority of ireland for this gem of information, which i think we in this chamber probably all know about – there is no recognised scientific test to differentiate organic and conventional produce. it means that we need to make sure that from the seed onwards there are checks and balances in the system. we probably have it right on paper, but it is in terms of implementation where this may fall down. people are paying higher prices for organic produce. on the irish market less than 1% of food is organic. we import 70% of our organic needs and again i have to refer to the food safety authority of ireland, because there are over 70 countries listed. some of them i would not have thought would be in the organic league i have to say, but they are on the list and i think that because they are on the list we need to reassure consumers, certainly in ireland and across the eu, that if they buy organic produce from those countries, they meet the same standards of organic produce from within the european union. i think a paper trail is great and the eu is very good on that. my biggest concern relates to who is monitoring the control bodies and who is checking the auditors. this is a concern i have across all of our legislation and it is perhaps something that the commissioner might address in the short time she has available to her. but yes, the organic sector is growing. it is a small sector, but i share mr parish’s concern that any crack in confidence will destroy it. it will destroy the market for producers, it will ruin consumer confidence and it is something we should seek to avoid. my fear is that some organic produce being imported into the eu is anything but organic.
mr president, the main focus of the report is on the benefit of nanoscience and nanotechnologies and the need for europe to be at the forefront of their development, in line with the lisbon objectives of greater productivity and economic growth. while laudable, this leads to one major gap: the recommended increases in research in nanotechnologies are preceding legislation to regulate these technologies. legislation should, at minimum, keep up with research. in the hurry to get ahead of china and the united states, we may see regulation including risk assessment as being something that could hold us back. however, there are questions on non-therapeutic human enhancement, privacy, equity, patenting, military applications, safety and health and the environment, which we need to answer first. regulation in this case should ensure that we do not in our haste create very difficult problems. if it is good regulation, it will serve research and make it more focused and effective. ‘look before you leap’ has always been a good and useful maxim.
in writing. i welcome this commission communication, which recognises the tough economic climate that the eu fishing industry has to contend with. it is very well to say that the scrapping of vessels and the removal of extra capacity will lead to increased profitability, whereas in reality many a coastal community has been devastated by such a move. this is as true for the coastal community of the algarve in portugal, which we visited a few weeks ago, as it is for traditional fishing communities on the island of ireland. i accept that a balance between fish resources and fleet numbers needs to be gained, but i do not accept that this should be at the expense of small fishing fleets, which account for over 80% of the european fleet. we need a level playing field for conservation measures taken against small fishing fleets and those taken against deep-sea fishing. i believe the cfp has not been successful as a community instrument in protecting those traditional fishing fleets and the communities to which they belong, and it is time to change the policy to achieve a better balance.
mr president, i do not want to delay the proceedings, but question time at the last part-session was a shambles. i would ask you to ensure that it does not happen again. question time is being moved around far too often and members are not being given the opportunity to do their duty. (applause)
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, i too would like to join with my colleagues in thanking the president-in-office and president barroso for their presentations here today. i will deal with the easy questions first of all and then go on to the more difficult ones facing the summit. we have a right to tell the russians that we demand standards of them with regard to freedom of expression, freedom of accountability and the freedom and the security of human life when people question and challenge authority. as mr watson rightly said, 40 journalists have been killed in russia in the last two and a half years. interestingly enough, not one person has been arrested in connection with those 40 deaths; not one person has been convicted in connection with those 40 deaths. if we are to expect that suddenly action will be taken because of the horrific gunning-down of anna politkovskaya in recent days, i think we are like ostriches sticking our heads in the sand. only when real engagement and dialogue takes place with russia can we guarantee a relationship of equality between the eu and russia, despite our dependence on russia for energy, despite russia’s dependence on us for markets, and despite the interaction that there is in geopolitical terms between eastern europe and russia. i think that what we really have to do is show courage now in laying down clear standards and guidelines of what we expect from our partners with regard to their relationships. this is not just about the death of the journalist, horrific as that is; it is not just about chechnya; it is also about russian treatment of georgia in the recent past and what they have done. while the russian authorities condemn chechen resistance fighters on the one hand, on the other hand they support ‘resistance fighters’ in parts of georgia. they have put the economy of georgia under tremendous strain, not just in economic terms but also in human terms, deporting hundreds of thousands of georgians from russia back to their home country, denying them access to education and to businesses which they legitimately own and control within russia. all for the sake of ‘clarification’. my next point touches upon the european institute for technology, research and development and what is required for that. i am a great supporter of president barroso’s plan with regard to the necessity for europe to take the lead and take the leap from the 20th century into the 22nd century with regard to what we need to do for research and development and investment in technology. but first, before that can happen, we must ensure that the intellectual property rights and patenting rights are protected to allow for innovation to take place, to allow for investments to be made. it is easy to build the structure of a building to house an institute of technology. it is more difficult to put in place the legislative framework to allow for this to happen. finally, madam president – if i may be allowed the same latitude as the other group chairmen were allowed – when we speak about energy and common energy policy and energy needs, one of the biggest opportunities that we are denying ourselves is the renewable energy that we can create and grow on our land. when farmers are suffering because of bad deals made by peter mandelson at the wto talks, or when agriculture is under threat, then we need to invest in renewable energy.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, despite the short time available to me, there are three points that i want to raise. first of all, what further guarantees have the american authorities given with regard to how the data will be used? i know we have the ‘push system’ and the ‘pull system’ and so on, but what kind of criteria are laid down for the use of the data? secondly, when we hear about actions on a case-by-case basis determining whether a threat exists or if a particular flight may be under threat, how much time do we have to be able to respond to that request for information, and what difficulty will there be in accessing that data? and i mean that from a european perspective as well as a us perspective. thirdly, and i suppose most importantly, if we find that some data has been misused, what comeback do we have? what mechanism is in place to ensure that an individual or groups of individuals whose data has been misused can get some kind of comeback from the american authorities? these are questions which i think all european citizens want to have answered. i agree with the deal, i think it is a good deal in general and better than the previous deal, but there are still requirements for further clarity on it.
mr president, i wish to raise the european perspective of the proposed takeover of aer lingus by ryanair. until recently, aer lingus was the irish national carrier and in state ownership. it was in a healthy economic situation but needed to raise finance to renew its fleet. the irish government said that the eu would not permit any state investment in the airline, which is news to me. as i understand it, a state has flexibility in investing in airlines if in fact they are in a healthy economic position – as indeed aer lingus was. this is another example of the ‘blame brussels’ mentality, whereby a national government can explain its own actions by saying, ‘the eu will not allow that’, when that is not necessarily the case. however, that is history, and we now have aer lingus being targeted in a takeover bid by its main rival, ryanair. in a way it is ironic that on the one hand we blame the eu for the current situation when in fact no blame attaches, while on the other hand we will undoubtedly make a case to the commission’s dg competition to block the takeover, to save us from our own actions and to protect us from the consequences of those actions.
in writing. the claim is that the commission wants there to be a balanced approach in dealing with ethanol-producing countries. in the two concrete cases that i am aware of, mallow and carlow sugar plants in ireland, this balance is not apparent. because the irish government did not do due diligence in its negotiations with the commission for the compensation package as part of the closure of mallow and carlow under temporary sugar restructuring rules, we now find that the commission is inflexible about turning these factories into ethanol-producing plants. in fact, despite repeated appeals to commissioner fischer boel to allow the ruling to be reconsidered and allow ethanol to be produced in these factories using the sugar beet immediately available, i have been assured that the plants will be completely dismantled.
mr president, if the open skies transport agreement for aviation is agreed between the united states and europe, numerous benefits will flow: more routes, more competition and cheaper air fares – better all round for the traveller and the consumer. a major obstacle, namely, an objection on the european side to the exchange of passenger data with the united states, has now been overcome. however, there is another obstacle in relation to the ownership of airlines, which is causing major problems in the united states and has been objected to in congress. in the meantime, the irish minister for transport, mr cullen, is trying to get the commission to agree to a one-to-one bilateral agreement between ireland and the united states. i object to that on two fronts. firstly, it will undermine the global trust of open skies; and secondly, it will do irreparable damage to shannon airport in ireland, which has been the gateway for transatlantic travel. until such time as there is a full global agreement, then no bilateral agreement should be concluded between ireland and the united states. the commission should reject it.
mr president, we had a very useful dialogue last week with a group called eagles, which is made up of scientists from around the globe who are interested in helping the developing world, and i think it is a dialogue we need to extend throughout this parliament. we are witnessing scientific apartheid on a vast scale: the developed world has too many scientists and engineers and the developing world has none, which is widening the gap between rich and poor. i have a very simple message which will not take a minute: there is an onus and a duty on the european union and the commission to work with the scientific community to persuade it to devote part of its efforts to projects that will help the developing world, whether it is for animal health, human health or agricultural production. this is a problem which is being neglected at the moment and the poor are suffering. it is something that this house should take on board by looking at the important role of science in the developing world.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for the almost forensic work he has put into this report. apart from the obvious loss of money, which is very serious from an eu point of view, the public perception of fraud is quite large and to some extent it is unfair and detracts from the very good work that the european union budget does throughout member states. we should remember that by concentrating on the problem that is there. unfortunately, the public blames this anonymous european union, when the problem is much closer to home in their individual member states. that message needs to go out very clearly too. it is unacceptable that there is so much money outstanding – some eur 3.5 billion is owed as of june 2002. a great deal of money in the agriculture sector has just not been recovered because of the difficulties with member states not cooperating. the reform of the common agricultural policy in 2003 should see an improvement in the position in relation to agriculture: the introduction of the single farm payment, its close links to cross-compliance measures, will ensure that money is only paid out when it should be. i have a niggling worry that because of past failures in agriculture, we are coming down very heavily in policing cross-compliance. i have farmers come to me saying that they get no notice of inspections and are faced with significant penalties for very minor mistakes. that is going too far, and we need to be careful not to push too far in that direction, because while it is very easy to tackle and trace eur 5, eur 5 billion seems to slip through the net. i am pleased that commissioner fischer boel has said she will look at less draconian implementation, while at the same time ensuring we meet the rules. we do need to get the money back. but i would like to end by making the point that the talk, and hopefully the work towards better regulation, should improve this position. the past is not a pretty picture. let us hope the future is a nicer one.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i would tend to support the 80% management of life by member states. this would ensure a much better and fairer spread of funds across the eu and across the many different types of environment within the eu. it would bring more local knowledge to the project selection process and make public awareness easier to achieve. i have only one hesitation as an irish mep: i believe that the second half of the second pillar of life – implementation of existing environmental policy – is critical. this is a priority, because there is no point in funding new policies and projects when we have not learned to implement the standards we have already imposed on ourselves. frankly, this is a problem in my home country, when it comes to industry. my member state’s environmental protection agency seems to be very reluctant to force the same compliance on industry as it does on the public. in my willingness to support management of life + at member-state level, i would still like to see a reasonable level of scrutiny to ensure that the projects selected prioritise efforts to improve compliance by industry with eu environmental law.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, i wholeheartedly support this question to the commission from each of the three committees on what i regard as a most important topic. i also want to welcome the positive response from the commissioners. i co-signed this resolution on breast cancer as i believe the european union can do much to assist member states in this area through extensive research, benchmarking and sharing of best-practice principles, as well as offering member states substantial professional, material and technical assistance through european programmes. the main concern that legislators and health teams face today with regard to breast cancer is that every woman, irrespective of her place of residence, social status, occupation and education, should have access to high-quality screening for treatment and aftercare in the event of cancer. we need to improve the service of information to women, both younger and older, about the risks of and availability of treatment for breast cancer in order to ultimately reduce the mortality rate of women and to improve their quality of life and assist them in returning to work if they so desire. there is a need for more extensive research on the causes of breast cancer, in particular on the effects of hazardous chemicals and the environmental pollution, nutrition, lifestyle and genetic factors. i call on the commission, through the seventh framework programme, to provide financial support for the further development of blood-based tests, to provide funding for comprehensive investigation into the causes of breast cancer, to urge member states to set up information and counselling centres, whilst simultaneously reporting back to the european parliament on the results of more recent research conducted in this very important area.
madam president, today we are debating an excellent resolution which has implications for all women and indeed for all families in the eu. as already stated, every six minutes a woman in the eu dies from cancer. that is a truly shocking statistic and one which should spur us on to immediate action. breast screening, which according to the who can reduce deaths from breast cancer by up to 35%, is offered on a nationwide basis in only 11 member states. shame on all of us! and shame on my own country, ireland, where we have not yet rolled out breast-check nationwide. deaths from breast cancer in the republic of ireland are significantly higher than in the north of ireland, where they have already established breast screening. but we, like many other european countries, do not yet have nationwide cover. finally, two crucial points: every country should have nationwide breast cancer care supported by interdisciplinary breast units at appropriate locations; and women over 69 or, in ireland’s case, 65, must not be excluded from breast screening.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i also would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs hieronymi, on her work and commissioner reding on her work in support of this programme. i support the continuation of the media programme for the period 2007-2013. we must remember, as europe integrates more closely, that it is very important that we seek to protect and promote our different cultural and linguistic diversities within the eu itself. we must always remember that the diversity of europe is its greatest strength. in essence, the media programme will help to develop the audiovisual sector in europe during the coming six years. amendments by the european parliament have ensured that the importance of european cinema is being recognised under the media programme for the purpose of intercultural dialogue, linguistic and cultural diversity and non-discrimination.
in writing. life has proved to be an invaluable eu environmental policy since 1992. now we have an opportunity for life + to become even more valuable, in particular to the smaller and newer member states, which could receive a more equal spread of budget over the period 2007-2013 of €2 billion. i fully support the council proposal to delegate the implementation of 80-85% of the budget to national agencies and so i have voted against this report. for example, the overall amount indicated for ireland from the programme is €25m. this funding could then be doubled through co-financing instruments up to €50m. environmental projects in ireland which could benefit under the seven- year programme include waste prevention, waste reduction and recycling initiatives, development of innovative technologies with positive environmental benefits, local and regional environmental awareness campaigns and the development of special conservation areas.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional development. – mr president, i should like to say ‘well done’ to the rapporteur: he has certainly shown a steady hand. on an overall level, payments in the 2007 budget must reach 1.04% of eu gni if we are to deliver effective programmes to our citizens. it is also crucial that we adopt a qualitative, value-for-money approach with the resources that we have. somebody made the comment that the council pays. in fact, it does not. the citizens pay. we are dealing with taxpayers’ money; they have entrusted their money to us and they rightly expect to see positive results within the context of overall value for money. as rapporteur on the regi committee, i strongly urge that the appropriations in the preliminary draft budget be restored and that cohesion be considered one of the policy priorities of the eu. finally, i call on the commission to clarify the legal base of the peace programme and enable resources to be allocated to the international fund for ireland. as an irish mep, i am pleased to have the opportunity to thank the eu for its continuing support for peace and ifi funding. well in excess of eur 1 billion has been given to promote peace-building, understanding and tolerance. you have supported communities and shown faith with ordinary people in the border regions of ireland. you have played your role and you can take credit for that.
mr president, i should like to refer to one particular budgetary matter. the commission is presently finalising its public health programme for 2007-2013. we all know that in the recent past the commission has had very effective information campaigns, highlighting the dangers of tobacco and aids within the european union. the commission has a budget of eur 56 million per year to highlight public health threats and to implement public information campaigns throughout europe. i believe the time has now come for the commission to implement an information-awareness campaign to highlight the problem and dangers of, and the cures for, depression within the union. i have also written to many governments of europe seeking their support for this political initiative. one in four people in europe experience at least one significant episode of mental difficulties during their lives and up to 18 million people in the european union, aged between 16 and 25, suffer from major depression. depression and anxiety disorders are the most common mental health problems experienced in europe. studies have estimated that by 2020 depression will become the highest-ranking disease in the developed world. in fact, there are even higher levels of depression in eastern and central europe. we have identified the problem; we have the financial resources to highlight it; so let us go forward and meet this challenge now.
i should like to thank the commissioner. in ireland the schools fare better and students are fine while they are at school. when they are at home, however, the situation is very poor; 25% of the population cannot get broadband. has the commission given serious consideration to filling the gap by new technologies, such as wimax, although these need spectrum and frequency access? have you considered this and do you have a response to it? many of my constituents cannot get access to broadband and students are deprived of the technology when they go home.
thank you for your reply, commissioner. despite our performance on broadband, it is nice to hear the commission acknowledge what has happened in northern ireland and ireland as regards roaming, which i hope will serve as a model for other countries. in her answer, the commissioner firmly placed the blame on national governments for their inadequate legislation. this is true not only of ireland but also of the united kingdom. mr patrik lindén, the communications manager of eurid, has put it very bluntly indeed. i will take your message back and will certainly point out that at national and local level much of the responsibility for the fact that we are way behind the rest of europe effectively rests with our own government and our own legislation.
i have often said to you in this house that 5% of world trade is agricultural trade and the 95% is being blocked by the 5% at fair trade talks. is it not time to remove the blockage? is it not time, commissioner, to get on with the vast bulk of world trade and deal with agriculture on a separate level? if you concede more on european agriculture, you will have broken the agreement that the member states have made on agricultural subsidies and agricultural support. so is it not time to deal with the vast bulk of world trade and leave agriculture aside?
thank you for taking the question. i agree with the commissioner that the euro has guaranteed transparency in pricing and facilitated travel and above all, having one currency has created a greater unity of purpose for europeans than anything else we have done together. all that is to be welcomed. i understand that the european economy seems to be cooling, but is still expected to grow by 2.5% in 2006, its biggest growth since 2000. that is to be applauded, but slowing global growth and increased interest rates mean that european economic growth might be hindered. can the commissioner tell the house if he anticipates any more changes in economic growth after the impending enlargement and indicate what effect that will have?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work in producing this report on the promotion of active european citizenship. many of us who genuinely care about the future of europe believe that active citizenship will play an important role in the continuation of the european project. the eu is a work in progress; progress from centuries of division to a time of mutual cooperation. that mutual cooperation is for the benefit of all our citizens. otherwise the eu has no raison d’être. it is also important to understand that this mutual cooperation is not just between member states. that is certainly important, but it is not enough. there must also be mutual cooperation between our citizens so that they too are an integral part of the process – not as an audience, but as actors on the stage; not as observers but as participants. we are looking here at participative democracy alongside representative democracy – sometimes an uneasy alliance on both sides, but one we must promote because otherwise we just pay lip service to our citizens, and they deserve much better than that. i am pleased to see the inclusion of non-formal education programmes in this report. perhaps we might extend that to the recognition of volunteering activities through the provision of a european volunteering passport. volunteering plays an important role in active citizenship because many of the activities earmarked in the report, such as town twinning, civil society organisations and amateur sports organisations, involve volunteer participation. intercultural dialogue must also be supported. all of us have our prejudices, our misconceptions about others, and it is only by engaging with each other that we begin to recognise each other’s humanity; and that is the foundation of mutual cooperation and mutual respect. my only regret is that the funding provided will not be sufficient to accomplish the huge and important task we have set ourselves. however, i agree with the previous speaker: let us roll up our sleeves and get on with it.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i hope that we are on the way to a first reading agreement. i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr schlyter, for his excellent cooperative work on this report. i was delighted to hear that the commission agrees with all our rapporteur’s compromise amendments. it augurs well, indeed, for a first reading agreement. perfluorooctane sulfonates – pfos – are chlorinated compounds with numerous applications in consumer products such as textiles and paper, are known for their repellent properties, amongst others, and are used daily in many consumer products. they also have some specific industrial applications in products as wide-ranging as microchips, fire-fighting foams, chromium plating and hydraulic fluids used in aviation. these chemical substances are known to be very toxic, persistent and bioaccumulative. we have achieved several important changes to the draft proposal, which will bring greater protection for human health and the environment, especially in the area where the maximum threshold for the amount of pfos that can be placed on the market as a substance or preparation has been substantially reduced from the commission’s original proposal. i welcome the inclusion of pfoa – perfluorooctanic acid – in the scope of this directive. according to a recent oecd survey, the substance has a similar structure and toxicity to pfos and thus should be phased out accordingly. industry has voluntarily proposed to limit the use of pfoa by 2014, which in itself is a clear sign that our instincts were right to insist on its inclusion in the legislation. the changes introduced by this house have improved the proposal, and mr schlyter’s report is both balanced and objective. the report recognises that limited specific use derogations are needed for critical applications of substances for which no alternative currently exists, for example pfos is essential in very small quantities in the semi-conductor sector and in hydraulic fluids used in aviation. the fact that the phasing-out of these will be based on a case-by-case review, taking into account new information on details of uses and on safer alternatives, is a constructive and realistic way to encourage the affected industries to actively seek alternatives. in conclusion, it appears that this piece of legislation will go through under the finnish presidency and we can avoid tying these toxic chemicals up in the reach queue.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to join with my colleagues in saying that today is a very sensitive occasion for us in parliament. in all our deliberations we have to remember the victims of terrorist violence and, today in particular, the victims of eta violence in spain over the last few years. but we must also look to the future and ensure that there are no more victims, because political solutions will be found to the differences in spain, france, and the european union as a whole. i believe it is wrong to draw parallels or to say all processes are exactly the same. however, previous peace processes can act as a guide to what might happen, the kind of difficulties to be overcome and the challenges to be faced. if dialogue is to succeed, both sides must be open. you cannot talk about a future process with one hand tied behind your back. you have to ensure that those with whom you have a dialogue are committed to reaching a compromise and finding a solution. and the most important thing to remember is that when you go into a peace process you have to make peace with your enemies, not with your friends, and that can create a lot of internal difficulties. (applause)the opportunities now presented to us by this process should be grasped, but it should not be predetermined that everybody gets what they want. it is most important that we do not point the finger of blame at someone else from the popular party or from the socialist party, but encourage the main forces of democracy in spain to unite in finding a solution for all of the people of spain and not to be driven down the road of division and dissension. that is not in any way to undermine or to ignore the suffering people have gone through. can any of us imagine what it would be like to lose a loved one because of a so-called political cause? we in ireland know what that is like – there have been 3 000 victims of terrorist violence in ireland over the last 30 years – and yet we could find a way forward and bring extreme opinions together. an opportunity does present itself if people genuinely want to act. opportunity comes to pass but not to pause. let us seize the opportunity and give our support. (applause from the left and the centre)
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i should like to thank prime minister vanhanen and president barroso for their presentation here this morning. i should only like to say two things, which i already mentioned to the prime minister but perhaps president barroso could take them on board as well. the majority in this parliament agrees with and supports the need for the european institute of technology, but what arrangements are there to make it happen? we can speak about it again and again, but there must be positive action to get it up and running, to give a core element to innovation and research in europe. secondly, with regard to the whole patents area, there must be protection of the ideas and creations that come from that innovative strategy and policy. otherwise, all research money, all researchers, all the top graduates at doctorate level will move to the us, japan or elsewhere, because that is where their ideas can be protected and there is bigger investment. to my mind, those are the two key issues with regard to achieving the lisbon strategy for the future. i congratulate prime minister vanhanen. when everybody said that you could not get a united voice from europe to speak to russia, you achieved that. congratulations.
mr president, given your esteemed background as a spanish socialist, is it possible that you might have a conflict of interest in continuing in the chair, just on this point? (loud and sustained applause from the right)
mr president, people may be trying to change the vote, or whatever, but i actually voted the wrong way because of the roll-call vote. that is the proof of the matter. there is at least one vote that was wrong there. (applause from the right)
in writing. i oppose this epp resolution criticising spanish government efforts to negotiate peace. if the criteria the epp seeks to apply were applied initially to the irish process, the ira would still be engaged in its murder campaign. as we know, doubts about the commitment of the ira continued to exist, 10 years on. but structures have evolved to pressure them and monitor their activities; to ensure that they were disarming and completely committed to politics. it can be said that, had the process not been in place, up to 1000 further deaths could have occurred in that period in northern ireland. the spanish government is dealing with one of the most difficult tasks - how to bring internal, politically driven violence to an end. the view we are asked to endorse is that of the party in opposition in spain. this view is contrary to the considered position of the current democratically elected government of the spanish people. in the uk and ireland there is cross-party support for the irish peace process, even though from time to time parties have been critical of details. this is one of the reasons it has been successful to date.
in writing. the vote on this resolution has put the ppe-de irish delegation in a difficult position. the irish peace process has been a success and we recognise the support of the eu for that process. after more than 40 years of terrorism, violence and conflict all parties are now working towards a lasting peace in ireland. we would like to see a successful peace process in spain also and an end to the use of violence for political ends. however, there are dangers in drawing parallels between the irish peace process and the situation that currently exists in spain. to begin with, the irish peace process has the support of two sovereign governments and the support of the vast majority of political parties on both islands. in spain there is still deep political division on how best to proceed. it is unfortunate that the european parliament is being forced to divide on such a fundamentally important issue for spain. however, with spanish members so deeply divided on the resolution before us, it has made it impossible for the rest of parliament to form a united view on a subject that we really should not be divided on. fundamentally, we all want to support an end to political violence in spain. (abbreviated in accordance with rule 163(1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. the spanish peace process is a brave and necessary initiative. while the government in spain is seeking to end eta bloodshed through dialogue and negotiation, it is incumbent on all democratic parties, both inside and outside spain, to offer support to the process. that does not prevent us from maintaining a critical perspective, with regard to the seriousness of the eta organisation's commitment to making the necessary compromises. incidents such as the kidnapping in southwest france by the eta organisation are a test of the process. there may be other such incidents before the process is concluded. in these circumstances, it is a matter for the government of spain to judge whether such incidents indicate a deliberate breach of the eta ceasefire and to act accordingly. it is necessary to bear in mind the sensitivities of the victims of terror and their families during the process and in its conclusion. but the process is primarily about preventing further killing and destruction. those victims of terror who support the current peace process are to be congratulated for their generosity and courage. they, despite their pain, have opted to try and prevent others facing the same trauma in the future.
in writing. while i voted with the epp and rapporteur on this, i would just like to draw attention to the case of the european city guides, in which individuals, small companies and even schools have been sucked into a scheme where they have had money fraudulently extracted from them with no clear means of redress. while i believe this report to be generally of benefit to european businesses, it must also be noted that it could leave the way open for an intensification of the kind of practices carried out by european city guides.
in writing. i welcome these proposals, which bring together the existing internal education and training programmes, allow for increased coherence and complementarity of community programmes and should lead to more efficiency and flexibility in the community's actions in the field. these programmes have demonstrated palpable success over their lifespan and have contributed to the modernisation of the educational and training systems in europe. as the new integrated programme is open to some third countries (iceland, liechtenstein, norway, bulgaria, romania, albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, serbia and montenegro, switzerland), it has a huge potential for contributing to intercultural understanding. the integrated programme is unfortunately, however, not open to all countries in the union's neighbourhood. i believe that establishing and maintaining contacts with the peoples of the union's southern and eastern neighbours through education and training activities is of crucial importance. i call, therefore, for the programme to be gradually opened to all countries covered by the eu's neighbourhood policy. i would also like to see the inclusion of the erasmus mundus programme in the integrated programme as of 2009, when the present programme has run to the end.
in writing. i fully support this motion and abhor the fact that, although the eu guidelines for breast cancer screening were first drawn up in 1992, mammograph screening is currently only offered nationwide in 11 member states (belgium, the czech republic, estonia, finland, france, hungary, luxembourg, the netherlands, sweden, spain and the united kingdom). for me it is particularly unacceptable that in ireland, which has recorded the highest economic growth rates in recent years, about 600 women are victims of breast cancer each year, and a sizeable number of those deaths could be prevented if periodic screening and diagnosis identified the problem early enough. it is a disgrace that in ireland we are still waiting for the rollout of a national breast screening programme. however, we do expect that rollout to be completed in 2007, although the cervical cancer screening programme won’t be completed until 2008 at the earliest - some 15 years later! all member states must introduce - urgently - nationwide breast screening. the commission should now work with the new member states and accession countries to assist them in using the european regional development fund and the pre-accession funds to create a comprehensive health care infrastructure.
is the council satisfied that there is enough cooperation between eu member states in the fight against international terrorism? do you agree that europol and the eu anti-terror office are being adequately funded?
i thank the president-in-office for her reply. can i take it that, apart from the derogation mentioned, the irish language will be given equal treatment with all other languages of this parliament?
the points you have raised reflect the concern that many of us in parliament have that, once we propose this agency, the initial role we had envisaged for it will be diluted until it ends up as a think-tank or a contact point that would merely be distributing information from one member state to another, rather than taking a leading role in defending fundamental rights. maybe you could enlighten us as to whether that is a true interpretation of what you have been outlining concerning the bilateral meetings.
i can see that you are trying to have confidence-building measures between europe and iran, to try to better relations between the two of them and act as honest broker in this serious situation; but the idea of sanctions does not really work. it did not work in iraq and it is not going to work in iran. it is quite a wealthy, oil-rich country and they will just carry on. it may affect them somewhat, but it is not going to affect them that much in the long run. there are certain issues that you touched on yourself. one of these is the shipment of heroin out of afghanistan through iran, and considering that there are about three million heroin addicts in iran and they have lost about 3000 troops on the border trying to stop this going on ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his well-chosen words here this evening. i am delighted to be one of the ten meps in the european parliament group in the eu delegation. we are all members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and we will be led by our colleague, mr blokland, as our vice-chairman. i had expected my colleague, mr florenz, to be leading on behalf of the ppe-de group, but i do not see him. part of his question was to put down yet again a marker in the sand about the fact that the members of the european parliament’s delegation, as part of the eu delegation, will be treated as second-class citizens. i know the commissioner will tell us the tale about interinstitutional agreements, the council, the commission, precedence and practice. frankly, we are all sick of hearing that and we do not want to hear it any more. the commissioner is always excellent on these occasions and gives very generously of his time, as do his officials. they brief us extremely well after the event, outside the door, but we are never let in, not even as observers at the high-level meetings. i should like, on behalf of my ppe-de group colleagues and, i suspect, all colleagues, to be treated on a par with both the european commission and the council delegates who will be there. if the commission calls it an eu delegation, then the three eu parties who are present should be treated equally. the commissioner told us at a recent briefing that he does not expect spectacular breakthroughs. this will be another interim cop, cop 12-mop 2 if you like, but it is very important, as this is the first meeting on sub-saharan africa. the commissioner mentioned the need to extend cdms. at the moment only 2.5% is spent in africa in this area and that is mainly in morocco and south africa, and none in the rest of sub-saharan africa as such. a lot of work needs to be done there. i am very interested in looking into the creation of a carbon fund for africa, as the commissioner has suggested, and where that will take us. who will finance the adaptation fund? the argument is about whether gef will be the main source of funding and where that is going to be. in montreal it was agreed that there would be two tracks in the negotiations: one for the unfcc framework and the other for the kyoto protocol. i believe this clarifies where different countries stand. together we can make progress, bring in more of the developing countries and persuade more of our friends in the united states in particular to join us in the very important task of reducing carbon emissions.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report. because of time constraints, i shall concentrate on the irish experience only, but it is certainly relevant to this debate. the commissioner stated that ireland has not adopted specific transposition measures and was not conforming to the criteria established by the case law of the court of justice. so, apart from all the other difficulties highlighted by the rapporteur – and i do not have time to list them – it seems that we in ireland do not have the legal certainty to comprehensively enforce this directive. recent events in ireland have shown how much we need full implementation of this directive: with gama, a turkish construction company, ripping off some of its foreign workers; the irish ferry scandal, where existing workers were simply replaced by mainly foreign workers on half the wages and with inferior working conditions – i might add that this is one of the reasons i support a directive on ferries; and today in ireland the mushroom industry admitting that some of its members are paying half the minimum wage to their foreign workers. my final point is that it is not just posted workers who suffer: it is all workers, including irish workers, who will pay a price down the line, as minimum wages will be undercut and suspicion and distrust will replace solidarity between workers. the commissioner said earlier that it is difficult to protect workers while ensuring free movement of services; but, regardless of how difficult it is, we must do so.
mr president, i should like to thank mrs schroedter for a very good report. we need an effective directive to protect workers posted temporarily to an eu state. this is essential to prevent a race to the bottom. however, we have a directive that is full of legal black holes and is not applied at all in some states. despite the best efforts of commissioner špidla, i do not believe that guidelines will solve these failings. many of our states are resisting the necessary legislative changes. the consequences are scandals of the kind already mentioned, such as the irish ferries debacle. while ships’ crews are excluded from the posting of workers directive, the irish government also resists the implementation of a ferries directive, which would protect those workers. we urgently need a legal framework to effectively prevent a race to the bottom, unfair competition and, indeed, the ugly emergence of xenophobia. we need clarity and certainty on definitions of workers and an end to false self-employment. we need the right to apply clearly established higher minimum standards, sufficient inspectors to ensure compliance and enforceable penalties for failure to comply with eu legislation. i believe, also, that we need protection for whistle-blowers, for those who reveal the abuses that take place under the existing regime. i should like to remind those who would criticise the committee on employment and social affairs and myself over this issue that i represent a state that opened its borders to all ten new member states, fully and freely. we have now been forced to close our borders to bulgaria and romania because of the abuse of migrant workers and the consequent effect upon irish-based workers. this is not an easy question to resolve and it is certainly not an attempt to create protectionism in the 15 ‘old’ member states.
mr president, this is just to say that i was mistaken on my last vote. i thought we were voting on the amendment instead of the final vote on the berès report. i voted against when i should have voted in favour. this is just for the record. thank you for your efficiency.
i abstained on amendment 3 because i was not quite sure of the intent of the study that was proposed in paragraph 23, but i fully support paragraph 23 itself.
mr president, i should like to give my explanation of vote on paragraph 4 of the schroedter report on the posting of workers. i support the proposal for a directive on the conditions required for the cruiser vessels providing regular passenger and freight ferry services between member states. i was particularly pleased to see parliament do so too. i do so because of our experience in ireland with what has happened to the ferry workers and the workers – most of them foreign – who replaced them at irish ferries. we had a documented situation – and this is quite recent, mr president – where one particular worker was paid approximately eur 1 an hour. it is worth noting that the irish minimum wage is in excess of eur 8 per hour. redundancies were forced, not voluntary, because the redundancy offer on the table involved substantial wage cuts and significant disimprovement in working conditions. the vacancies arising from forced redundancies were mostly filled by foreign workers, many of them earning half the minimum wage in ireland. that situation simply exploits all workers, offers no protection, promotes xenophobia and certainly fits the description of the ‘race to the bottom’.
in writing. i wish to give a brief explanation on paragraph 4 in the original text of the schroedter report on the application of directive 96/71 on the posting of workers. i support the proposal for a directive on the conditions required for the crews of vessels providing regular passenger and freight ferry services between member states. i do so because of our experience in ireland and what happened to irish workers and the mostly foreign workers who replaced them in irish ferries. we had a documented situation where one particular worker was paid approximately 1 euro per hour as a hairdresser, and it is worth noting that the irish minimum wage is in excess of 8 euro per hour. after the redundancies – and these were forced, not voluntary, because the redundancy offer on the table involved substantial wage cuts and significant disimprovement of workers' conditions – the vacancies arising from the forced redundancies were filled by mostly foreign workers, many on half the minimum wage for ireland. this situation simply exploits workers, offers no protection, promotes xenophobia, and certainly fits the description of the 'race to the bottom'.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i am very glad that parliament is showing such concern for the people of tibet. i do not question the genuineness of it, but i do question the genuineness of the way in which this parliament acts on such concerns. today in the budget vote we rejected three amendments that would have removed eu development funding from government and organisational programmes that included coercive abortion, involuntary sterilisation and infanticide. why do tibetans try to escape from china? it is because of these very barbaric practices, in addition to religious persecution and political persecution. this is what blights the life of all minorities and conquered peoples within the territory that china now claims to rule. i ask you, commissioner – and i would like an answer – what part does our development aid play in this kind of suffering?
mr president, i rise to ask for your support for efforts at eu level to counter discrimination in the workplace, and in particular for the eu-funded ‘work it out’ programme, which is a project that produces tools to help people with intellectual disabilities, those who support them and european legal experts in this area. this programme provides information on the framework employment directive, which seeks to combat discrimination and unequal treatment at work. that directive has recently been transposed by member states and provides vital protection to people with intellectual disabilities who face discrimination at work. mr president, i would ask you to ensure that the definition of ‘worker’ in this directive includes people in sheltered employment. we must be watchful and ensure that the directive is being implemented correctly in each member state. intellectual disability covers a large range of people with very different capabilities: some people with intellectual disabilities work and live independently in the community, while others have complex or profound needs and require constant support. however, it is important not to make assumptions about what intellectual disability means, since with appropriate support and preparation many people with intellectual disabilities can be a valuable part of the workforce. mr president, i would ask that you devote personal attention to this matter.
kyoto was and is a blueprint for sane and sensible environmental policies, by way of the reduction of damaging greenhouse gas emissions. unfortunately, the reasonable targets set and agreed by member states have been, and continue to be, ignored in many cases. in the case of ireland, for example, we have a tradition of signing up to international agreements and protocols and then walking away from them. the big offender, however, is the united states of america. i welcome the results of the united states congressional elections. the fact that the american people have turned their backs on george bush because of iraq may also be an indication that his stubborn refusal to embrace kyoto is not shared by the vast majority of the american population. could it be that the tornadoes and the hurricanes and the natural disasters in the united states caused by global warming are a result of the reckless dependence on and usage of fossil fuels? as a former british chief economist with the world bank, dr nicholas stern, put it very succinctly: good environmental practice does not simply make environmental sense, it also makes good economic sense.
mr president, last week a group of irish meps met in brussels with a group of mercy sisters who are working very closely with poor and marginalised members of the asylum and refugee communities. the stories we heard from those religious sisters were very alarming, especially as they came from a country that says it is civilised and treats people properly, though i dare say ireland is not the only country not to treat refugee and asylum seekers correctly and humanely. we intend, as a group, to pursue this issue within ireland. it would appear that the dublin ii regulation – evaluation of which we currently await – is not working. very often we hear from people working in this area that the theory and the practice do not match. we need to do something about that. of particular concern, however, is the phenomenon of children lost to the system. such children are in ireland but nobody knows where exactly or who can account for them. that is an appalling prospect in a member state of the european union. we need to look very carefully at how we treat the poor and marginalised in our community. we need an independent evaluation of the process and a long-term solution to the issue of why those people should need our support.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, since we are on the subject of milk quotas, i want to bring a serious situation to the commissioner’s attention. the irish milk quota sellers’ group, whose members are all older farmers, all hold milk quotas which they wish to sell. their decision to sell the quotas is based on illness, infirmity or old age. the irish minister for agriculture has stipulated that she will prioritise in favour of young farmers. european law prohibits discrimination on the grounds of age, yet our minister is openly discriminating against older quota owners in favour of young farmers to whom she wishes to give quota – and this is the key – at below market value. she proposes to take the cost out of present quota owners’ pockets. this is interfering with the market. many of these older farmers are at present subject to scaremongering, with inaccurate information from their cooperatives. the minister intends to confiscate quotas not offered for sale on two bases: if the quota owner does not produce for two consecutive years or if the quota owner has a leasing arrangement which expires in march one year and he does not sell his quota by the end of march the following year. minister coughlan appears to want to divide the traditionally cohesive farming community by the exploitation of one group by another. the threat to confiscate quota is an attempt to pressure farmers into poor arrangements and to sell against their will. i ask the commissioner to clarify this situation.
mr president, in ireland they speak of little else. i spoke to a large group of dairy farmers in navan, county meath on thursday night and the question they are asking is not so much if quotas will be gone in 2015, but what is going to be done from 2008 to collapse the value of the milk quota. i am indebted to last thursday’s edition of the farmers’ journal for outlining five key points that the commission has in mind. it is well worth bringing them to the attention of the house. i believe you are looking at gradually increasing quotas from the health check onwards, reducing super-levy costs to member states, balancing quotas across the european union so that an over-quota in one member state may be taken up by slack in another. cross-border trading is on the table, as is reducing the value of quotas in member states. that is already happening, certainly in ireland. there is a downside to all of this. every single study that i have read on the subject says that the abolition of milk quotas will lead to a substantial drop in milk prices in many member states and there will be a corresponding increase in production. that would happen in ireland, the netherlands, denmark and luxembourg. the key to all this is that we are all for abolition if markets are positive in 2015, but none of us knows what the markets will be like at that time. i look forward to your analysis of the dairy market. it will have to take a very close look at the future, because if global markets are not positive i cannot recommend to farmers that they run faster to stand still. it makes no sense. to those who have concerns about young farmers – and i have many myself, although my little farmers are quite small at the moment! – who would encourage anyone to go into a business where they have to work twice as hard to earn half as much money? it does not make sense. we need to bear that in mind. the key is the wto and what happens there. but at least we are having a debate and that is a positive sign. we should discuss these things more in this house, rather than reading about them in our national newspapers.
mr president, i should like to thank both rapporteurs for their reports. when i reread the presidency conclusions, these seven lines of text read worse now than they did almost a year ago. it is literally a free-for-all for any member state that wants to take it up and it has no regard for the rules that this house, and indeed the council itself, had drawn up in relation to rural development. voluntary modulation as outlined in this proposal is anything but voluntary, because the farmers certainly do not want it. therefore we are misusing and abusing words. of course this proposal distorts. it has to, because it is allowed in one member state but it may not be applied in others. we need to look at the impact of this on agriculture generally. i am also conscious that we are looking towards a health check for the cap in 2008 and, in parallel with that, a review of the financial perspectives. i should like to compliment the commission on trying to make something good out of what is essentially a very bad proposal: the commission is trying to get rules applied and is insisting that they be implemented; it is excluding market support measures. i shall conclude by saying that it is very difficult to make something good out of essentially a poor suggestion, or, to use an agricultural term: you cannot make a silk purse out of a sow’s ear. i compliment the commission for even trying to do so. this is a bad proposal and we will be rejecting it.
mr president, the european union had to develop this system of air traffic control, bringing together the 40 different networks currently in place in the eu, as a result of the projected increase in the volume of air traffic. that is why i believe the sesar system to be of tremendous importance, and i congratulate both rapporteurs on their work. as an aside, i do not believe that an eu-us open skies arrangement will be possible in the near future, owing to the outcome of the recent elections in the united states. european governments will therefore have to strike individual agreements with the american government in this area. indeed, a member of the irish government has signalled that this is the route it will have to take in order to put in place an aviation agreement. i would also like it to be put on record that any such arrangement should guarantee the future of shannon airport in the west of ireland, in its present form, owing to its importance to that region as a vital economic hub.
mr president, it is high time we acknowledged that mercury can and indeed does cause serious health problems. mercury poisoning through the ingestion of mercury-contaminated food – usually fish – is the main source of contamination in the general public. mercury and its compounds are not only toxic for humans: they also have very negative effects on wildlife and ecosystems. therefore, the restriction of the use of mercury is highly desirable. however, i acknowledge the need to be realistic in the restriction of certain measuring devices containing mercury. therefore, i welcome the fact that some medical devices are being excluded for the time being from the scope of the directive. medical experts have indicated that in certain cases non-mercury devices may not be fully accurate, for example, for some cardiac conditions and in cases of pre-eclampsia. it is therefore preferable to continue to use mercury devices in these limited situations until suitable alternatives are fully examined and endorsed by the medical professions, but with a time-limited review clause for suitable alternatives appropriately validated. given the toxicity of mercury, that is a reasonable demand to make on the industry, and i invite the industry to respond. i support the amendment originally tabled by my colleagues, which allows for a derogation for antique barometers and scientific instruments intended for sale or trade on the international antiques market and for the production and servicing of traditional barometers using small amounts of mercury in controlled and licensed environments. it is worth noting that traditional barometer-makers do not introduce new quantities of mercury into the marketplace but recycle existing mercury and, in this way, help to control and limit the substance – not to mention the fact that antique barometers are usually highly valued items and so even more unlikely to end up in our waste streams. remember that the purpose of this directive is to ban the marketing of mercury-containing devices. it will allow the sale of a barometer with a separate phial of mercury to be added later by the consumer if we do not have a derogation for these antique barometers – a far less hazardous option in my view.
in writing. i welcome the green paper on mortgage credit, which explores how competition in the eu mortgage market could increase consumer choice and reduce costs. consumer confidence in banks is of paramount importance. therefore the willingness of a borrower to deal with a foreign lender will be determined not only by the competitiveness of the mortgage, but also by the level of consumer protection that will apply to the foreign lender. ireland enjoys a relatively sophisticated mortgage credit market in eu terms, including access to the full range of competitively priced mortgage products. expansion of this market across borders may develop naturally through subsidiaries or branches abroad on a more widespread basis, if the market is encouraged in other areas. therefore i believe that legislative intervention should only be used as a last resort and to address proven market failure. i fully encourage the commission in creating electronic land registers which can be accessed online. the fact of the matter is that lenders cannot enter other markets without absolute certainty regarding the security of their collateral. given the experience that many citizens have had purchasing overseas property, an online register reflecting all relevant charges affecting property ownership rights is vital.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to welcome president barroso and the members of the commission to the chamber. two points struck me immediately in the speeches and comments i heard earlier on. firstly, when did it become a sin to be radical; when was it ordained that we should not try to create something new and different and, when we see mistakes, not try to right them? in particular, the fact that we live in such a rapidly changing world brought about through innovation and technology requires a more rapid response from the european union to ensure that we can defend as best as possible the interests of all eu citizens. secondly, there are obviously going to be carry-over issues from one year to the next on which agreement has yet to be reached. we have already seen this when dealing with the services directive over the last six years, where even now we are only at second reading. we will have to deal with many more issues like that. i would, however, like to make three points. firstly, with regard to the lisbon agenda, there is still so much lacking in terms of the necessary legislative framework that must be put in place to make lisbon a reality. the whole area of innovation, research and development is one that we talk about a lot, but in which concrete legislative action to protect design, patents and copyright, and to allow for proper investment in research and development, in financial terms, is still lacking. i have spoken many times in this chamber on the european institute of technology and the wonderful advance and focal point for excellence that would represent. however, this is the positive side of things, and we seem to be regressing in other areas. the commission is talking about a harmonised taxation system, but wherever harmonised taxation has taken place it has been contrary to good competition, economic growth and employment growth. tax competition within the european union has been healthy for growth and has been beneficial and of assistance. one must of course have a level playing field as regards state aids and other similar areas, and we do have this. we can quite rightly bring member states under control when they go above and beyond what is allowable as regards assisting industries or assisting employment creation opportunities. however, taxation is solely a national interest issue. it is one that still requires unanimous agreement, and i think it behoves us to stand up and say that the legal bases of the treaties do not allow the commission to come forward with a proposal for tax harmonisation. they do not allow it to force countries to increase taxes, and they do not allow it to force countries to lower taxes. finally, the cfsp has been one of the european union’s key successes. take kosovo, africa and other developments around the world, where the european union has responded positively to putting peacekeepers and police forces in the field and to promoting other constructive developments on the ground. we must continue to enlarge and expand that role.
president-in- office, thank you for that very comprehensive answer. i should like to focus on two other areas you spoke about in your response. firstly, with regard to the role of martti ahtisaari in kosovo and how that links in with the commitments from the european union under the common foreign and security policy, what kind of money is being given for the rejuvenation of the police force and the judiciary within that area? secondly, has there been any further discussion of an idea that originally came from croatia concerning the creation of a new semi-single market within the former republics of the yugoslav republic in order to try and create economic regeneration within that area itself, and has the eu been asked to participate or to advise with regard to any parts of that?
deputising for the author. – president-in- office, thank you for the response to the question. i have two very brief supplementaries in regard to that. president barroso said here today in parliament that climate change and energy are some of the main challenges facing the european union over the next ten years. one of the elements relating to energy efficiency is that if you turn off your television properly instead of leaving it on standby, you can save 25% of the electricity that is normally used for a television. maybe, when we speak about design and energy-efficient design, those kinds of design features should be taken out of televisions and radios and computers, so that there is no standby. secondly, concerning the stern report on economic environmental matters, i know you cannot speak on behalf of finland but i also know it has one of the best records on alternative energy use and recovery of energy. the stern report is quite explicit on the economic savings that can be made with regard to energy efficiency. can we see legislative programmes directed towards that?
deputising for the author. – i just wish to say that i understand that there is a cross-over here between the different rules. however, mozambique is ireland’s biggest destination for development aid money and the reason is that the irish government works very closely with the clinton foundation in tackling disease, including aids, as well as giving education on the ground. would the council consider giving more support to foundations like the clinton foundation, which has proven to be so successful in individual countries?
on behalf of the ind/dem group . – mr president, i welcome the commissioner's statement that we must protect minors. to do that it is imperative to take a long hard look at ireland’s policy of having no age limit on gambling with the state-run tote. children in ireland are permitted to place bets at greyhound tracks and horse tracks if these are part of that tote. other forms of gambling are limited to over-18s. video evidence exists of irish children as young as four years of age legally placing bets with the state-run tote. it is not uncommon for birthday, christmas and first communion money to wind up in the irish state tote and, ultimately, with the irish exchequer. the chief executive of horse racing ireland, when asked his opinion of child gambling in ireland, said that it was no problem and that he wanted to develop the customer of the future. for years you, commissioner mccreevy, as irish minister for finance, refused to amend the tote act and outlaw child betting in ireland. as commissioner, will you now change your attitude and, at this late date, support restrictions on child online betting, at race tracks, in bookmakers, on airplanes and anywhere else that this insidious practice persists?
mr president, i should like to make one point. much attention has been paid in this debate to young people and the effects of gambling addiction on them, and yet more people under the age of 12 are trafficked or forced into prostitution because of drug or alcohol addiction and abuse than the gambling addiction that is the subject of our debate tonight.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr joan i marí, on his report and its contents. i am very much in favour of supporting multilingualism and, in particular, the lesser-used languages. i will not speak in my native language, irish, this evening. however, at the beginning of next year, in two part-sessions from now, i will be able to do that with the support of parliament’s services. i welcome that and look forward to it. it gives meaning to the phrase ‘unity in diversity’, which has been used so much here this evening. the lesser-used languages of europe are as important, if not more so, than those which are widely spoken because we must support and strengthen them. that is why i believe we can look forward to unity and cooperation through a common strengthening of our languages.
mr president, i believe that the services directive is one of the most important pieces of legislation we will adopt in this parliament. i should like to congratulate commissioner mccreevy, mrs gebhardt and mr harbour for all their work. it is definitely a step in the right direction. the directive will make europe more competitive and thereby create jobs and give better value to its citizens. people are saying that we are pulling the wool over the eyes of our citizens. on the contrary: if we do not make changes in our economy, as we are doing today, then we really will be pulling the wool over the eyes of our citizens. whether we like it or not, it is a fact that we are living in a globalised world and europe must become more competitive if it is to compete on a global scale. about 50% of all world trade is now in emerging economies and if we want to compete with them and hold on to the european social model, we need a vibrant economy to invest in the sort of services that we feel are important for the citizens of europe. this directive is a step in the right direction; it is the sort of reform we must make at a european level if we want to hold on to the values that we believe are right for our citizens. i very much welcome this directive.
mr president, i wish to congratulate mrs gebhardt on her enormous tenacity and political wisdom. others have obviously played a key role, but i am afraid that she has carried the greatest burden. this outcome is a success, given all the circumstances for citizens as workers, consumers and service providers. the outcome demonstrates that it is possible for effective and fair outcomes to be achieved between 25 member states, despite all our differences. those who ignore that diversity continue to reject this compromise, particularly the kamikaze gue/ngl group, which ignores the fact that the principal demand it has been making – the deletion of the country of origin principle – has, in fact, been achieved. the council must now stop playing games with labour rights in europe. last week’s farce on the working time directive was shameful. give us a working time directive that is workable and working and an effective posting of workers directive. unless the council does that, it will continue to preside over citizens who fear for the quality of their working lives and fear the race to the bottom, and those fears are eating at the heart of europe.
mr president, today is a good day for the european union. the process to reach an agreement on the services directive has not been an easy one. while no political group in parliament has got exactly what it wants, we have managed to reach a workable compromise acceptable to the vast majority of members. most importantly, this parliament is sending a strong signal today to the commission and council to move forward and make this directive a reality as soon as is practically possible. for that reason my group has taken the approach not to amend the directive at this stage, in recognition of the fact that it would not be helpful to reopen the debate in parliament or council. the implementation of the services directive will give the sluggish eu economy a much needed kick-start at this stage. the services area is crucial to europe’s economic growth and prosperity, contributing nearly 70% of gdp across europe. businesses and consumers alike should benefit from the creation of a more open common market for services. at the moment services account for only 20% of trade between member states. the directive aims to remove many of the barriers to cross-border trade and services and to reduce the red tape that businesses, especially small to medium-sized enterprises, encounter when they try to expand across borders into new eu markets. europe’s small and medium-sized enterprises with the capacity to grow have been particularly disadvantaged by the costs attached to administration and legal requirements in the past. they can look forward to the benefits of this directive, which dramatically reduces that burden for future cross-border trade. this directive is of huge importance to my own country because it is a net exporter or goods and services. irish companies and service providers will now, i hope, take advantage of the simplified environment for providing services across the european union. the services directive will facilitate growth, job creation and increased economic activity in the services sector across the eu, while ensuring social and worker protection. as parliament’s last speaker in this debate, i wish the commissioner well in ensuring that this directive becomes a reality without delay. (applause)
in writing. the services directive will have a profound impact on the lives of workers and consumers, lowering the standard of service provision and increasing the risks of social dumping. it gives exclusive prominence to the freedom to provide services across borders, whereas freedoms such as social rights and collective bargaining are excluded or dismantled. the directive puts downward pressure on wages and provides companies with numerous loopholes which they can exploit to pay less than the minimum wage. it provides an incentive to service providers to establish themselves in low-wage, low-tax countries, and encourages a race to the bottom in relation to wages and employment conditions. regulatory requirements are an integral part of the functioning of all services, and the need for such requirements increases with the amount of private-sector involvement. the directive challenges the right of member states and local authorities to regulate services. finally, parliament has capitulated to the commission and the council in its refusal to uphold its already inadequate first reading position. unfortunately i was unable to vote on this occasion due to the hospitalisation of my son.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, the international community has taken its eye off the ball in relation to the ongoing crisis in gaza. it has been distracted by other middle east events such as the war in lebanon, iraq and iran. we must all renew our efforts to find and encourage a peace process in gaza. compromises have to be made by both the palestinians and the israelis to end the conflict, which is destroying so many lives on both sides. i welcome efforts from hamas and fatah to form a unity government in an effort to end the international embargo on palestine. i urge hamas, under the new administration, to recognise israel or accept a viable two-state solution to the middle east conflict, which i believe is the only way forward. i condemn the rocket fire by palestinian militants from gaza this morning, which killed an elderly woman and wounded another person in the israeli town of sderot. i also condemn the deaths of the 18 civilians in the shelling of beit hanoun by the israeli defence forces last week. but an eye for an eye leaves everyone blind. while i recognise that israel has the right to defend itself against attack, many of us saw the documentary on gaza yesterday and listened to our colleagues who had recently visited the region. i was shocked by what i heard and saw: the sheer brutality that has been inflicted on palestinian civilians. both sides have to realise that the only solution is to sit down and talk. dialogue is the only way forward. courageous leadership is needed on both sides. we are only too aware in ireland of the cycle of violence caused by such conflicts. we also know only too well the enormous benefits that can accrue to everyone when violence ends and real negotiation and dialogue take place. we must all strive to build confidence. the eu has increased assistance to the palestinian people this year and has called for the immediate payment by israel of withheld tax and customs revenue. it also continues to seek the release of the captured israeli soldier and of palestinian legislators detained in israel, as well as the reopening of the gaza crossing points. the eu has an obligation to protect civilian lives. at this time, it is in a stronger position to act as an honest broker than britain or america. reasonable people must stand up and do something about what is going on. evil will continue to prevail if we do nothing.
mr president, gaza is a prison camp for 1.3 million palestinians, sealed tight by israel. the occupants are being starved; their health and education infrastructure is being destroyed; their economy is being laid waste; and they are being massacred. as many as eighty – not just eighteen – men, women and children were killed last week, most of them civilians simply going about their daily business and trying to get on with life. this is all being done by a state which claims to be the only democracy in the region. what a shameful expression of democracy. israel is now also pulverising these unfortunate people with experimental weapons. we have no word from the commission or from the council as to what they are doing about investigating that matter. launching qassam rockets will not bring freedom for the palestinian people, and i condemn such launches. however, it is also clear that israeli firepower and israeli oppression of the palestinian people will not bring a secure future for israel either. only negotiations on a two-state solution will bring that security, and i would appeal to all concerned to start those as soon as possible.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, i should begin by congratulating the commissioner on his very positive speech, and on everything he is doing in this area. he is serious about making a difference in combating trafficking, and that needs to be recognised. i also want to congratulate mrs bauer on her report. it has not been an easy report to put together, as various opinions from a number of different committees have had to be incorporated into the final version. i was responsible for the committee on foreign affairs’ opinion on human trafficking, which concentrated specifically on the external relations aspects of this problem. a large number of paragraphs and recommendations from my opinion have been incorporated into the text of the report and i thank mrs bauer for her cooperation in that regard. i wanted this evening to comment primarily on foreign relations issues. the report stresses the need for member states to sign up to international conventions, ensuring a positive obligation on countries to address issues relating to trafficking. the irish government, for example, has not ratified the un convention against transnational organised crime and the protocol to that convention to prevent, suppress and punish trafficking. this anti-trafficking convention and protocol have been ratified by 121 states across the world, including most european countries, but seven eu member states are still to ratify, which is unacceptable. the report also urges eu member states to implement the council directive on residence permits so that the option of temporary residence can be granted to victims of trafficking. this is absolutely necessary in order to shift the focus away from viewing trafficked people as illegal immigrants and towards treating them as victims of abuse. it will also encourage victims to come forward to the police by assuring them of compassionate and fair treatment. one of the core elements of the committee on foreign affairs’ opinion is that the council and the commission should regularly raise the issue of human trafficking in political dialogues with third countries. the human rights clauses written into eu agreements with those countries should be used, where appropriate, to raise concerns on trafficking. there is clear evidence in various regions of the globe that pressure from governments, international organisations and ngos is starting to have an effect on attitudes towards trafficking. the eu has a responsibility to raise the profile, by all available means, of the continuing scandal of what amounts to modern-day slavery. europe needs to set an example if it is to insist on other parts of the world following its lead. i am not satisfied – and this was confirmed to me by the commissioner’s remarks – that eu governments are serious about this issue. that has to change, and this report is a step in the right direction.
on behalf of the pse group. – i too want to thank mr schwab, and my colleagues in other political groups as well, for the considerable amount of work they have put into this report. the ombudsman’s report, particularly the executive summary, is, i believe, an excellent example of how to present our work to the citizens. it is clear, concise and to the point. transparency is, i believe, the key to european democracy and its main building block. i welcome the increased awareness of the european ombudsman’s role, reflected in the increased numbers taking their complaints to him. i am not at all concerned about the fact that many of these are not directly his responsibility. that is a reflection of his success in bringing his office to the notice of the public and perhaps also an indication of the inadequacies of other institutions in making clear who they are and how to access them. i believe we should not expect citizens to find their way through the maze of eu institutions. they have more important things to be doing with their lives. when they have a complaint to make, they will reach for the nearest known vehicle available to them. i think that the citizen’s right to make a complaint is a good thing. the action of the ombudsman in referring those cases for which he does not have direct responsibility to the appropriate institution is an excellent way of dealing with such complaints. i believe it should be followed by other institutions. one final point: ten years after the initiation of the ombudsman’s statute, there is clearly a need for a review. i welcome the ombudsman’s initiative in that regard and i look forward to debating it in parliament in the near future. (applause)
mr president, i wish to thank mr diamandouros for his report, and mr schwab for the report we are debating today. i share his concerns that it is a little late in the day to be debating this issue, but i suppose it is better late than never! the ombudsman is the watchdog of the system. i would prefer to think of him as a rottweiler, which is what we need, rather than a tamer breed! my irish colleagues will giggle at the ‘rottweiler’ description because politically speaking we have one of those in our national parliament. the ombudsman has an important role to play and i do not share the concerns of those who maintain that 70% of complaints fall outside his remit. as others have said, this reflects the fact that there is a huge amount of frustration and people need somewhere to turn. it is important to underline that. i am pleased that the ombudsman, in his wisdom, does not turn them away, but actually assists them. he should continue to do that. others might not agree, but that is part of his job, and we need that flexibility. i compliment the ombudsman for trying to promote his work. there is an onus on all of us in this house to help him in that regard, even if i regard my own office – and i think other colleagues feel similarly – as a one-stop shop. at the end of the day, i hope meps are the first port of call for citizens who have problems. mrs wallis’ proposal to set up a one-stop shop is a good one, but let us not forget that we as elected representatives are also here to obtain information for citizens. the ombudsman should bear in mind that we in this house often experience as much frustration as the public when it comes to getting information from the commission. there is a duty on administrators to see themselves as servants of the public and not as protectors of the system. if necessary, we will have to train people and change their culture. i would be interested to know whether the ombudsman has looked into the attitudes of those who are at the root of problems. in other words, in the complaints he has upheld, is a bad attitude evident among administrators? if so, we should do something about that. i wish to thank all those involved again, and i hope the ombudsman’s workload increases exponentially, as it should.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur. in the short time available to me, i should like to mention the strategy used by a former president of this parliament, pat cox, to communicate europe. in a famous speech, he started by talking about the local impact on a small community in the south of ireland that used european legislation to maintain its telephone service. then he moved on to the global – or european – level, speaking about european values and issues such as blue flag beaches, the european health card and other benefits that accrue to european citizens. that is a good strategy – communicating the added value of europe at the local, regional, european and global levels. look at this week and take two pieces of legislation we have passed. we passed an amendment to aarhus, which already guarantees public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters. we have added gmos to that. that will make a difference at individual local level, where citizens can influence outcomes. we also passed the services directive. that too will have a positive impact on our citizens.
in writing. in supporting this joint resolution i want to highlight the demand that the eu must now use all the instruments at its disposal, including the eu association agreement with israel, to end the violence in gaza which has condemned the palestinians to a slow death and risks setting the whole middle east on fire. israel, as a democratic state, needs to ask itself questions. lawlessness cannot be allowed to be the answer to lawlessness. the israeli government must end its blockade of gaza and there must be an immediate resumption of aid to palestine, and support for the government of national unity. i support the call for an international inquiry into the possible use by israeli forces of weapons of mass destruction, as was suspected in lebanon. i also support the idea of an international peace conference bringing together all the actors in the middle east, including syria and iran. i demand an international force in gaza. we have contributed to the chaos in palestine and we have allowed the israelis to go too far in the name of their legitimate right to protect their security. we now have mistakes to make up for.
in writing. i support the demand that next week's sixth review conference should reconfirm the commitment of all 155 states parties to the biological and toxin weapons convention (btwc) - the first multilateral disarmament treaty banning an entire category of weapons - and their commitment to the complete prohibition of biological weapons. there must be a thorough review of the operation of the btwc to identify, discuss and agree on how to further strengthen the convention and achieve a ban on biological and toxin weapons that is a universally binding rule of international law. the eu must take up this issue in the transatlantic forums, in particular nato, to convince the us administration to move away from its unilateral standpoint and to contribute to the relaunch of an enhanced multilateral framework. i welcome the entry into force this month of the ccw's protocol v on explosive remnants of war and hope many more states will sign it and ratify the five protocols. i urge the eu and its member states to urgently establish protocols on relevant weapons systems and establish a protocol unambiguously banning the production, stockpiling, transfer and use of all types of cluster bombs (fragmentation bombs).
in writing. the lisbon strategy placed gender- sensitive economic policies at the heart of the strategy for growth and competitiveness, but women's full participation in politics is an essential requisite to achieving gender-sensitive economic policies. a milestone was reached by the 1995 beijing conference in advancing the gender equality agenda. yet, according to the inter-parliamentary union, of the 43 961 members of parliaments worldwide only 16.4% are women. the percentage of women elected to the european parliament ranges from 58% to 0%, with an average slightly above 30%. the percentage of women elected to the member states’ national parliaments varies between 45% and 9%. this marks a fundamental democratic deficit at european level and in the wider international context. i call on member states to review their national legislation to promote parity and genuine democracy in politics, review their constitution, legislation and practice, enshrine gender equality as a fundamental principle in their constitutions and take measures aiming at the reconciliation of social, family and professional life, in line with the conclusions of the barcelona european council and the lisbon strategy, thereby creating an enabling environment for women’s full participation in politics.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, famagusta is being held hostage. it has been described as a ghost town; it is desolate, isolated and empty. famagusta is a city on the east coast of cyprus. in 1974 turkish troops invaded famagusta and since then the city has been fenced off. at the moment it is unused and is guarded by turkish troops. nobody lives there. anybody who attempts to enter is shot on the spot or tried in military courts. famagusta only enjoyed independence for 14 years. during that time, it was of indispensable benefit to the cypriot economy. it had a population of 60 000 and 15 000 daily commuters. it hosted a bustling port. despite housing only 7% of the population of cyprus, it accounted for over 10% of the total industrial employment and production of cyprus. despite these figures and the obvious benefit to cyprus, the town has remained desolate. this is clearly not a tolerable situation for cyprus or the people. obviously something must be done. i find it incredible that the eu is not demanding the immediate and unconditional return of famagusta to its inhabitants who are, incidentally, eu citizens. instead we have this bizarre situation where the eu and many eu governments try to accommodate every one of turkey’s obscene demands and wishes. we all know that turkey desires to join the eu. we know what a powerful country it is. however, we must ask ourselves whether turkey is ready to join the european union. turkey is doing its accession cause no good. when i first came to this house, i voted to open talks with turkey. i abstained in the latest vote. will i have to vote against turkish accession or will i feel a little goodwill on the part of turkey some time soon? i can see no good in this situation. returning famagusta would be an excellent opportunity for turkey to show not only the original inhabitants of famagusta but also the eu and the rest of the world that it is a peace-loving and peace-supporting nation.
on behalf of the ind/dem group . – mr president, as members of the european parliament we claim to be committed to human rights. i therefore hope we take a strong stance in relation to mr choudhury’s plight. mr choudhury is a journalist facing charges of sedition in connection with a series of articles he published that bangladeshi authorities deemed favourable to israel and critical of muslim extremism. his points in favour of moderation and dialogue will surely be supported by every member of this house. nothing he said is without grounding and in any modern-day democratic country such articles would considered objective and informative to the public. this is not the case, however, in bangladesh, where mr choudhury has been put on trial and could be executed for his articles. he has received death threats and been assaulted, imprisoned, beaten and tortured. mr choudhury is now facing an unfair trial and has little chance of seeing justice. the presiding judge has commented in open court that mr choudhury has hurt the sentiments of muslims. it is clear that the judge is hoping for a death sentence. as members of the european parliament, we cannot stand idly by while an innocent journalist is facing an unfair trial and probable death. i am glad to see his situation specifically mentioned in this resolution, as well as support for free and fair elections in bangladesh. (applause)
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, is mór an onóir domsa fáilte ó chroí a chur roimh an taoiseach anseo chuig parlaimint na heorpa inniu. léiríonn do thuras anseo an tuiscint atá agat ar obair thábhachtach pharlaimint na heorpa agus an gá atá ag an aontas eorpach réiteach a fháil ar na deacrachtaí bunreachtúla atá ag an aontas faoi láthair. there are increasing difficulties within the european union, not only on the constitution but also, as other colleagues have mentioned, regarding globalisation, economic development and the common foreign and security policy. the taoiseach has given us a great vision today, not just through his words but also because of the experience he brings with him. in nearly ten years in the european council he has seen many leaders come and go, but he has also seen many of the crises that people previously thought would rent the european union apart and found solutions for them, in particular concerning the agreement on the constitutional treaty. there is no point going over what should or should not have been. it is now up to the member states in their period of reflection to present ideas as regards what should be brought forward. not just because we need a new treaty, or a new set of rules, but because we need to continue to demonstrate a vision to those countries on our borders which aspire to become part of the european union and look to it as a model of peace, prosperity and stability. i am thinking in particular of the countries in the balkans. we held out a candle of hope to them and, unfortunately, because we can no longer accommodate a further enlargement, that candle of hope could be extinguished, just when they are beginning to grow economically and find a new way forward in political and democratic terms. with regard to globalisation, our main focus should be on making the european economy better able to deal with the situation in the 21st century. this requires greater investment in research and development, greater use of innovation and technology and, i must stress, greater collaboration between universities and research institutes in the european union through the european institute of technology. finally, i should like to tell the taoiseach that it rests on him as the leader of one country to present that vision. he spoke about the peace process in northern ireland and the importance of the european union’s role in that regard, not only in economic and financial terms but also in the model and vision it provided. we must find a new europe for the 21st century, where everybody can belong to that commonality. but all groups must be sure that the diversity within the european union today, and beyond it on the european continent, is respected in a process for collaboration and collective agreement rather than for domination. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i welcome the taoiseach here for an honest discussion about the future of europe, but, as i was once told when asking for directions, i would not start from here. taoiseach, your government has cultivated ireland’s image in europe as a success story, the once poor nation made good, but this house deserves to know what lies behind this so-called success. as the irish know, ireland is now open for business, but closed for people. we spend freely to lure the market but cut every corner in social spending. it is this mentality that has lengthened waiting times for vital hospital procedures to months instead of days. it has also seen families of children with disabilities badly treated, like the o’cuanachains, hounded through the courts at a cost of millions just this year instead of their five-year-old child being given an appropriate education. this is also the mindset which makes our environmental protection agency a rubber stamp of approval for even the dirtiest business, no matter how damaging it is to the environment; a mindset that opens ireland to toxic industries like incineration, which irish people do not want. you also seem to believe that the mental health and suicide problem, which grows with our economic success, is a mere inconvenience and not a tragedy that our country has never really addressed. similarly, there are tens of thousands of unpaid carers whom we should be supporting for the valuable work they are doing, but whom your government treats like oliver twist asking for more. why, taoiseach, has your government destroyed our sugar industry for an eu scheme, when irish agriculture is struggling for survival and when we need biofuels like ethanol? why did your government vote to allow eu funding for embryo-destructive research, when our people have always cherished the most vulnerable citizens? finally, taoiseach, why have you come here propositioning us with a dead constitution that the irish do not want. we already have a truly great constitution, for which irish men and women laid down their lives, a constitution which gives us a genuine foundation for real and respectful cooperation with our european neighbours. ireland is a great country with amazing people. they certainly deserve better and i think you will finally discover this when you put the constitution, or whatever you decide to call it, to a referendum.
mr president, as leader of the fine gael delegation in the largest and most influential group in the european parliament, the ppe-de group, and on behalf of my colleagues mr coveney, mr higgins, mrs mcguinness and mr mitchell, i have great pleasure in joining in the welcome to the taoiseach today as the prime minister of our esteemed republic (notwithstanding the politically-hyped and inaccurate reports to the contrary in recent times). we are irish, taoiseach, and as such we are european. our ancestors, the celts, lived, thrived and established settlements throughout the european continent, from the shores of the mediterranean to the peaks of the alps, from the plains of romania to the atlantic coast, and, like many recent new arrivals in our own country, we migrated here to the continent seeking asylum from war, disease and over-population, seeking economic opportunity. over the subsequent centuries, vikings, saxons, anglo-normans, jews, english, scots, spaniards, french huguenots and many other races came, saw and intermarried with the celts. the modern day irish you see around you at home, and indeed around here today, are the result of this genetic soup of different european races. the history of ireland and that of mainland europe are inextricably linked. the irish monks travelled throughout europe establishing christian monasteries in such far-flung places as iceland and ukraine. our cultural and political links with spain and france lasted for centuries, throughout the time when we were ruled by the british crown. many irish battalions served in the armies of the great european powers down the years. our very constitution makes reference to our gallant allies in europe. and yet, for some reason during the past decade, an apathy, an ignorance about europe or the european project has seeped into the irish society, into european society. europe has become associated with brussels and viewed from the member state perspective as a place far away, with little relevance to the day-to-day lives of our citizens. i believe that the rationale for the european project which rose out of the ashes of the second world war, its very raison d’être, has never been fully explained or understood. yes, europe’s political class, as another colleague said, continues to fail to explain the project and claims all the credit for itself at national level instead of acknowledging the european union’s role. it is only since we joined the european union that ireland has become truly independent. culturally and psychologically, membership of the union has broadened our horizons and encouraged us to look outwards. ireland’s success in leaving behind the oppressive legacy of colonialism and building the new relationship with the uk, which has underpinned the northern ireland peace process, must be seen as a significant part of modern european history paralleling the fundamental rapprochement between france and germany. i admire ireland’s membership of and contribution to the union. i look around me at home and i see a confident, pluralistic society far removed from the introspective, sectarian ireland in which our parents and grandparents were raised. europe has helped define our place in the wider world. i salute the taoiseach’s presidency of europe and his particular contribution towards the finality of the convention and the wonderful work being done by the forum on europe under the chairmanship of maurice hayes at home at the moment. go raibh míle maith agaibh go léir.
a uachtaráin, gabhaim fáilte roimh an taoiseach. tá sé rí-thábhachtach go bhfuil tú toilteanach, a thaoisigh, ceisteanna faoi thodhchaí na heorpa a phlé linn. tuigimid uilig go bhfuil daonra an aontais imníoch. níl sé éasca teacht ar réiteach ar na fadhbanna atá faoi bhun na himní úd. i welcome your commitment to the substance of the constitutional text. however, member states and the council are currently denying europeans the accountable, democratic, and socially engaged europe they want. why, taoiseach, are you and other heads of government blocking key social directives on ferry crews, working time, migration and temporary work agencies? will you now help unblock all of these, as a means of rebuilding europeans’ confidence in europe? the constitution must not be filleted. a mini-treaty will give us a mini-europe, when we need a strong, democratic europe capable of coping with the global challenges we all face. the most democratic way forward is to negotiate legally-binding protocols to address the concerns raised by the pro-european french and dutch electorates. such an approach would reassure those pro-europeans who voted ‘no’, would not oblige those who have already ratified to reopen the issue and would make it more likely that those yet to ratify, such as ireland, can do so. (applause)
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur roimh an taoiseach anseo inniu. i am very pleased that the taoiseach is addressing today’s plenary session. the european union is in a phase of transition, continued expansion, new cultures, new ideas and new challenges. the important question is how to meet these challenges. is it through a race to the bottom, as evidenced in ireland during the irish ferries dispute last year and repeated many times since, or is it by ensuring that we are at the fore in demanding the highest standards regarding rights, reform of bureaucratic eu structures and a political programme that truly puts the people of the european union first? we must promote a europe that seeks to protect the most vulnerable, particularly the 65 million living in poverty across the union. taoiseach, we must do the same in ireland, and this means succeeding in our peace process, ending partition, building strong public services and promoting equality in every aspect of life. i believe that we can meet all these challenges, but only if there is real political will: a will to radically alter the eu’s current and future priorities. this is not a matter of presentational nuance. it is a matter of substance. i would ask you, taoiseach, and other eu leaders to truly listen to people across the eu and to respond to their needs. this can be best done by defending workers’ rights, protecting public services and halting the drive towards a militarised and fortressed european union. we in sinn féin, and our colleagues in the gue/ngl group, are committed to ensuring that the future of europe is based on principles of democracy, equality and solidarity.
a uachtaráin, cuirim fáilte uí cheallaigh roimh an taoiseach, bertie ahern, chuig parlaimint na heorpa. is mór é m’áthas é a chloisteáil ag labhairt ar thodhchaí na heorpa ins an bparlaimint inniu inár dteanga dúchais fhéin, an ghaeilge. is céim shiombalach í seo toisc go mbeidh an ghaeilge ina teanga oifigiúil oibre ag leibheál institiúidí na heorpa go rí-ghairid. tá ard-mholadh tuillte ag an taoiseach as ucht a chuid iarrachtaí dul i gcion ar chomhairle na heorpa agus ar an iliomad rialtaisí, lena dtacaíocht a chinntiú dá mholadh: an ghaeilge a uasghrádú ag leibheál na heorpa dhe. rinne an rómáin agus an bhulgáir, atá ar tí ionadaíocht a bheith acu ag leibheál choimisiún na heorpa, cur i láthair cuimsitheach sa bparlaimint an tseachtain seo. tacaím go hiomlán le cinneadh josé manuel barroso, uachtarán choimisiún na heorpa, dualgaisí iltheangachais an aontais eorpaigh, a bhronnadh ar leonard orban, coimisinéir ainmnithe na rómáine. tá a fhios againn uile go bhfuil an eoraip idir dhá cheann na meá faoi láthair maidir le modh oibre na ninstitiúidí a leasú agus a dhéanamh níos éifeachtaí. creidim go neartóidh modh oibre nua-aimseartha na ninstitiúidí, ról an aontais eorpaigh agus cinnteoidh sé go mbeidh an taontas in ann labhairt, in ann aghaidh a thabhairt ar dhúshláin eacnamaíochta atá ag go leor do na ballstáit faoi láthair. glacfaidh an ghearmáin le huachtarántacht an aontais lá coille na bliana seo chugainn le cúnamh dé. tá sé ráite cheana fhéin ag an uachtarán merkel, go bhfuil sé i gceist aici aghaidh a thabhairt ar na deacrachtaí a bhaineann le bunreacht an aontais, le linn a tréimhse ar an stiúir. ní chabhraíonn sé gur diúltaíodh bunreacht an aontais san ísiltír agus sa bhfrainc anuraidh. beidh uachtarán nua-thofa ar an bhfrainc an bhliain seo chughainn, agus táim ag súil go mbeidh sé in ann iarrachtaí níos fearr a dhéanamh ná mar a deineadh go dtí seo. tá dúshláin mhóra romhainn amach ach ná bíodh dul amú orainn faoi sin. caithfear leasuithe a dhéanamh laistigh d’aontas na heorpa, agus caithfear tús áite a thabhairt do chlár oibre na ninsititiúidí éagsúla don leasú seo. tá baol ann go mbeidh an taontas mí-éifeachtach mura ndéantar é seo láithreach. go raibh míle maith agaibh.
a uachtaráin, ar an gcéad dul síos, ba mhaith fáilte a chur roimh an taoiseach. i am happy to say that, broadly speaking, i agree with your analysis. we do need to change the context, highlight the positives and retain the balance and essential substance of the constitution. the impasse in the constitution was precipitated by the ‘no’ vote in france and the netherlands, but, in my opinion, this was not a ‘no, no, no’ to everything european. it was a wake-up call saying, ‘the future of europe concerns us as ordinary citizens and we too have a role to play’. democracy, like life, can be a messy business and, while leaders must lead, they must also listen. we have had our period of reflection and we now need a period of consolidation, where the eu is seen to deliver for it citizens on the lisbon agenda, on protection of workers, on support for european business, on environmental sustainability and on the ability of the eu to compete as a player on the global stage. in essence, the eu must manage the challenge of globalisation for all its citizens. if the eu can deliver on this major task, then i believe it has a solid future.
mr president, in ireland we are in the middle of a 16-day campaign to highlight the issue of domestic violence. it is essential that domestic violence is confronted and the proper services put in place, because domestic violence destroys millions of lives – those of women, children and sometimes men – right across europe. awareness-raising is the first step. yesterday i had the opportunity to launch an exhibition of artwork and poetry, run by the donegal women’s domestic violence service, with contributions from three local schools: st columba’s, the vocational school and loreto convent in letterkenny in north-west ireland. a related issue, and an important one for ireland, is human trafficking. i call on our taoiseach, who was here in parliament today, to ratify immediately both the council of europe convention on trafficking in human beings and the united nations protocol on trafficking in persons. it has been assessed that ireland is a transit and destination country for trafficking in women and children, and evidence suggests that organised criminal gangs are helping international traffickers establish trafficking routes in ireland.
in writing. i support adoption of the buzek report, which will enable the common position compromise agreement between the european parliament, the council and the commission to put in place and implement the seventh framework programme, despite my disappointment that the budget allocated to research and technological development has been reduced. i particularly support the compromise agreement reached on the sensitive issue of stem cell research, both adult and embryonic. i will therefore vote against amendments, such as amendment 49 tabled by kathy sinnott and others, which endanger embryonic stem cell research. i am also especially supportive of references in this common position compromise which identify marine sciences and technologies as a cross-cutting scientific priority. i hope that these references will enable the marine institute, headquartered at oranmore, co. galway, to continue to provide a world-class platform for the development of marine science in ireland and allow ireland to play a more significant role internationally.
mr president, i rise to speak because of my concern about the interference by commissioner mccreevy in irish politics last week, where he made a public statement challenging the irish government’s policy with regard to health insurance on the irish market. the area he is interfering in is not his responsibility: he has responsibility for the internal market, not for competition. in addition to that, the policy being pursued by the government has been approved by the commission and has recently been approved by the irish courts. my only conclusion is that commissioner mccreevy is assisting his former cabinet colleague and friend, minister harney, in shifting her policy on health insurance and blaming brussels for that shift in policy. that is an unacceptable direct interference by a commissioner in irish political decision-making. i would appeal to you, mr president, to make those concerns known to president barroso. i will pass on to you the correspondence i have had on that matter with the president and with commissioner mccreevy.
mr president, i want to bring to the attention of the commission – and, if possible, try to get a resolution about – a difficulty that irish fishermen are facing at present because of an inflexible interpretation of the ‘100 kilometre rule’, which means that fish must be landed and processed within a 100-kilometre range. the difficulty is that a lot of the processing capacity in ireland is not exactly on the shore or on the docks, but further inland. this creates difficulties in terms of transportation, since road transport counts as part of the 100-kilometre range. i ask commissioner borg to look very carefully at that issue and give us a more flexible interpretation of the rule: both to allow what is a very successful irish fishing industry to continue, and because it has an impact not only on irish catches but also on the ability of other boats operating in irish waters to land their catches in ireland. this means they have to travel further, use more fuel, and are being forced to land their catches in other markets, which may not necessarily benefit the european union as a whole.
mr president, as colleagues may be aware, the irish peace process is continuing to inch forward towards the full implementation of the good friday agreement, including the restoration of the power-sharing and all-ireland institutions. the significance of the dup’s ian paisley’s conditional ‘yes’ to power-sharing with irish nationalists and republicans should not be underestimated. however, there is still a long way to go and many challenges lie ahead. it is now important that we get down to the very serious business of re-establishing the political institutions so that local people can make local decisions, free from interference from unelected and unaccountable british government ministers. it is also important that the dup begin the process of engagement with sinn féin to resolve other outstanding issues, including that of policing. i would encourage the eu to continue to show support for the process at this crucial time.
mr president, comparing your recent statements on visits to italy and ireland, confusion has arisen over your position on the constitutional treaty. addressing the italian chamber of deputies and the italian senate on 9 november 2006, you stated that there appear to be four possible scenarios for the constitutional treaty: retaining the text with an addition here or there; salvaging the main elements and drafting a shorter treaty; re-opening negotiations on certain points; or abandoning the treaty and waiting for a better time to renegotiate it. you also stated categorically that there is no doubt that the text will not be implemented as it stands. yet, at dublin castle on 30 november, you urged ireland to ratify the current text of the constitutional treaty. surely this will be a pointless exercise if, as you said in italy, there is no chance of the current text being implemented! mr president, you leave yourself open, at best, to the accusation of sending out mixed messages or of tailoring your message to suit the audience you are addressing. as members of the european parliament, we have the right to be informed of the clear position of our president on this most important of issues. as a representative of a small member state, i feel particularly strongly that all member states should be involved in the reflection process. i do not want to see a situation where the larger member states, such as italy, are consulted and decide on the future of the constitution – and indeed europe – while the smaller member states are simply told to ratify the text as presented to them. i would love to hear your views on this, mr president.
mr president, i hope you had time to enjoy some hill walking while you were in ireland. one of the issues you may not have been aware of during your visit is the deep unease in the countryside about how the commission is applying on-farm inspections in relation to the common agricultural policy and cross-compliance. there is a huge gap between what the commission says it is doing in relation to simplification initiatives and what is happening on the ground in relation to cross-compliance inspections. the checklist with which farmers are required to comply is very long and confusing. allied to that, there is real fear that if you breach one of these regulations, you will face a penalty on your payment. consumers deserve to know that farmers meet high standards of food safety and production; but i would ask whether these unannounced spot-checks of the detailed sort i have outlined are the way to meet that objective. the irish government itself is to blame for the long delay in implementing the nitrates directive, with the result that we are now forced to have all the on-farm inspections catapulted into the latter end of 2006. could i ask the commission to specify exactly what it wants from farmers, and to ensure that all member states are complying with the rules?
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i joined the committee on the environment, public health and food safety just after the last election almost two and a half years ago and saw at first hand the divisions and differences of opinion in relation to reach. i must say that i have been highly impressed by the efforts of so many people, and in particular i want to thank the rapporteur, mr sacconi, the shadow rapporteurs, the chairman of our group, mr florenz, the commission and the council, and all who have compromised to bring about this package. i think it shows the ability of the european union and its institutions to come together in matters of common interest – it shows that we can compromise and have debate. if our constituents saw us in this light they would be very impressed. there is no doubt about the existence of a growing cocktail of chemicals in our daily lives. under the current patchwork of legislation, without sufficient information on the majority of existing chemicals, we are unsure of the quantity of chemicals used and the effect on our health and our environment. this agreement is groundbreaking in terms of regulation which will clearly benefit consumers and our environment through tighter safety controls. we will be better informed. there will be growing impetus for companies to invest and evolve in terms of research and development and substitution plans. in addition to the fine balance attained, i am very satisfied to see the increased assistance for smes, the promotion of alternatives to animal testing, community-wide labelling, and creation of an eu agency to manage the technical, scientific and administrative aspects of the reach system at community level. we must be mindful, however, that the aim of this legislation is also to improve the competitiveness of the chemical industry, one that is very important in my own country and creates quite a number of jobs directly and indirectly. the institutions have worked hard to ensure that the burden for industry, and particularly smes, is not too costly, will protect confidential business information, reduce red tape and will not threaten jobs, whilst still delivering a win-win situation for citizens, workers and our ecosystem. our big challenge now is to implement the reach regulation in our respective countries to ensure that it gets proper representation for those who send us here.
mr president, politics is the art of the possible. we should support this hard-won compromise package before us, which will need an open-minded and very honest appraisal at the seven-year review stage. after three and a half years, 700 pages of draft proposals and thousands of amendments, it was never going to be easy, with such a complex piece of legislation, to find the right balance between health and environmental objectives while maintaining the competitiveness of european industry. current chemicals regulation is very confusing and inefficient, covering 40 different directives that are more or less independent of each other. witness the saga of the zinc risk assessment that has taken 15 years, to date, and is still not complete. reach will rationalise this system and will register, evaluate and authorise chemicals that were never previously tested for their impact on human health. while the legislative debate is coming to an end, the serious challenges of implementing reach and setting up the agency are only just beginning. when it comes into force next year, companies will assume new and, in many cases, onerous responsibilities related to the substances that they manufacture, import, distribute or use. this will be particularly challenging for companies that do not already have the expertise to deal with chemicals legislation, especially downstream users of chemicals and the thousands of smes that will need to live and survive, commissioner verheugen – but i would also add ‘thrive’ to that list – under reach. however, the commission, the competent authorities and member states, the agency and we here in the european parliament have a role to play in ensuring that reach is implemented smoothly and effectively. the commission is still developing technical guidance and it tools that will enable industry and authorities to implement the legislation effectively from the start. national helpdesks also need to be set up, either by the competent authorities on their own or in conjunction with industry. these preparatory tools must be in place well before the reach implementation deadline in order to ensure all the necessary support structures are fully operational. i agree that this reach directive will have a very positive influence on standards worldwide. thank you to all concerned.
mr president, in the course of this debate, some speakers from the gue/ngl and verts/ale groups used some intemperate language in relation to mr sacconi, members of the pse group and others. it obliges me to put some political realities to them. firstly, the sacconi package is better than the current regulatory system that we have in place. it is better than the council’s common position. if they succeed in defeating it by amending it and the possibility that we end up back at square one, then effectively that puts the gue/ngl and verts/ale groups in the pockets of some of the dirtiest and most backward chemical industries in europe. we want to make progress in this parliament, not go backwards. the strength of europe and of this parliament is in identifying the threads of consensus on an issue. i think that mr sacconi, his staff and all the other members of this parliament who have participated in this process have successfully identified the thread of consensus and built on it and we have made progress in regulating the chemical industry in europe. we do not all have everything we would like; but as long as there are divergent views on how we can achieve a clean, healthy environment in europe, on how we can control these things, we will have the democratic process to help us to find a solution. i heartily recommend the sacconi package and congratulate him and all associated with it.
mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur for her work on this issue. i wish, however, to talk about one specific issue regarding customs policies. the single biggest problem currently facing the eu in relation to its customs policies is the unwillingness of the turkish government to implement the ankara protocol. turkey promised the european union 18 months ago that it would do so and that, accordingly, turkish ports and airports would be open to cypriot ships and air traffic. turkey has failed to honour this political commitment, which is a central element of the turkish accession negotiations to join the european union. last week, turkey offered to open one port to cypriot traffic. this offer was not even given in writing to the finnish presidency, and, even so, it falls well short of the commitment given by the turkish government that it would implement the protocol. it is now very likely that up to eight chapters of turkey’s accession negotiations with the european union will be suspended some time this week, which is the recommendation of the european commission. on a broader level, turkey faces the real possibility that eu accession talks may be fully suspended in time if it does not implement the ankara protocol and open up turkish ports and airports to cypriot traffic.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the honourable members for their valuable contributions to the debate and for the positive attitude towards the commission’s proposals. the commission has given appropriate consideration to parliament’s 58 amendments to the modernised customs code and has found the majority – as many as 32 – acceptable, 9 acceptable in principle or in part and only 17 unacceptable. i would point out that those amendments which the commission finds unacceptable are related to the key issues that i highlighted earlier and that are commonly debated by both parliament and the council. i must reiterate that as regards customs representation – amendments 14, 19 and 57 – the commission maintains that the accreditation of professional customs agents falls outside the scope of the customs code. the commission fully recognises the role played by customs agents in the world of trade. these agents, like any other economic operator, should have the right to exercise their profession in another member state, and professional competence in one member state should be recognised in another. this is a basic feature of the single market and essential in an electronic environment. the commission is actively working with the professional associations, like clecat and confiad, listening to their concerns and trying to find a satisfactory solution. the proposed change offers substantial benefits to business in general, such as increased competition between customs service providers, and opens new and wider business opportunities for customs representatives beyond national borders. on comitology, i believe that our legal services have come to conclusions that are not too dissimilar. there are indeed a few articles where the commission considers that the regulatory procedure, its scrutiny, should not apply, but in most cases our institutions’ respective analyses are converging. i should like to clarify why the commission cannot support certain amendments. the first i should mention is amendment 21, which suggests that in article 22(1), the words ‘administrative and criminal’ be deleted. all member states impose criminal penalties in customs matters and apply, even if they are not always described as administrative penalties, measures of an administrative nature intended to penalise non-compliance with the customs rules. there is, for example, the withdrawal or suspension of authorisations in case of serious misuse. such administrative measures play an essential role in the uniform and proportionate application of customs legislation. it is therefore necessary that article 22(1), continues to refer explicitly to both administrative and criminal treatment of infringements. the commission cannot agree with amendments 23 and 25 relating to customs fees. the commission’s intentions are simply to limit, as far as possible, the charging of customs fees; in particular, such fees should not be charged for the drawing-up of electronic declarations. on the other hand, we find it inappropriate to prevent the collection of fees where attendance of customs staff is requested beyond the normal office hours. we hold the view that customs fees are only legitimate where customs render a service that goes beyond their normal mission. i should also mention amendments 30, 40 and 41, which aim at granting benefits to railway companies. the commission cannot accept them, because they are going against our efforts to build up a level playing field for all transport operators, be they road, inland waterways or air transporters. in fact, the original proposals are likely to have been misunderstood and i am confident that once further explained their rationale and fairness will become obvious. in conclusion, i can assure you that these issues can and will be urgently and seriously addressed. the commission is confident that, given the spirit of openness and cooperation that has marked the consultations to date both in parliament and in the council, practical and appropriate solutions will be found so that the modernised customs code can enter into force as planned in 2009. with regard to the customs 2013 programme proposal, i confirm that the commission fully supports all the amendments proposed by parliament. i hope that the report by mrs fourtou will be adopted tomorrow by a large majority. let me finish by repeating that the strong support by the european parliament for the e-customs proposal will certainly be acknowledged by the council and speed up the adoption of the proposal.
member of the commission. mr president, may i first express my thanks for all the hard work done by the members of the committees concerned with the commission’s proposal for a council recommendation on the prevention of injury and the promotion of safety. let me acknowledge in particular the effort made by mrs sinnott in respect of this important initiative. i should also like to express my thanks to the austrian presidency for hosting a conference during its term, which also contributed to this issue. the commission started to support actions in the area of injury prevention under the former eu programme on injury prevention and has continued its support under the current public health programme. injuries represent, as you know, after cardiovascular disease, cancer and respiratory diseases, the fourth most common cause of death in the member states. every year, some 235 000 eu citizens die as a result of an accident or violence. over 50 million citizens seek medical treatment for injuries and 6.8 million of those are admitted to hospital. injuries, unintentional and intentional, are estimated to be the main cause of chronic disability in young people, leading to an enormous loss of life-years in good health. among people over 65, accidents and injuries are also a major cause of death and disability and are often the trigger for a fatal deterioration in health. areas that have attracted less attention in the past include home, leisure and sports accidents, as well as accidents in vulnerable population groups, such as children, adolescents and elderly people. research shows that more than 50 % of serious accidents are preventable and that reduction by one quarter should be a realistic target over the next 10 years. but, of course, it is of the utmost importance to have reliable information on injuries in europe in order to plan actions. injury information is also essential for evaluating the outcome of all our efforts and actions. the commission has set out a community action plan on injury prevention and safety promotion in its communication ‘action for a safer europe’. member states are encouraged to create similar national plans for injury prevention. such plans should serve as a framework for actions that engage relevant partners and stakeholders. they should define institutional responsibilities and should be based on good practice and safety promotion. the council recommendation on the prevention of injury and the promotion of safety is a first step towards combining the efforts of the commission with those of the member states for actions for a safer europe, in order to reduce the individual and societal burden of injuries. through such a joint approach, through learning from each other’s experiences, we can have faster and more effective results. we hope and expect that the situation within the member states in relation to accidents and injuries will improve significantly in years to come. once again, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee. i am looking forward to a very interesting debate.
rapporteur. – mr president, injuries can take or change a life in a split second. they can be accidental, inflicted or self-inflicted. injuries cause the death of a quarter of a million people and result in 65 hospital admissions every year. the challenge, when dealing with something as widespread, serious and preventable as injury, is to save lives and preserve health. for that reason i felt both challenged and privileged to work on this report. in this report, which particularly focuses on injury data collection, i have recommended that to promote safety and prevent injury we need better-quality data. it is not helpful in terms of prevention to know the overall number of road fatalities. we need to know what it was that made the fatal difference. was it the condition or type of vehicle; was the victim the driver, a passenger or someone walking along the road; were drink, speed or bad weather conditions involved; what was the road like? that is the type of breakdown we need in every area of injury if we are going to save lives. we cannot hope to closely examine every injury but we should and must create a system of data collection that more closely examines the injury determinants of all fatal and seriously disabling injuries, to prevent them more effectively in the future. that is my approach in the report, which the committee on environment, public health and food safety strongly supported. gathering such information may seem difficult, but in reality a great deal of information is already in place: insurance companies have detailed data on accidents; police have data on violent and self-inflicted harm. we must identify the experts in injury reporting and work with them to get the information that can be studied to truly prevent injuries and promote safety. the commission document allowed the injury and safety surveillance system a place within all future health programmes. that would surely allow the system funding, regardless of whether it proved effective or beneficial. we feel strongly that a real initiative to prevent injury and promote safety is so important that it needs to be put on its own stream within the health programmes. we need to think about that again in more detail when we consider the health programmes themselves. that means that this particular recommendation should not yet be linked to the health programmes but should be considered alongside them. that is why the committee on the environment took out all mention of health programmes from the document. the commission laid out seven priorities to which we have added injury and safety in the workplace, and we have also stressed domestic violence among women and children. one change i ask that we make is to take out amendment 4, which we will vote on separately tomorrow. that suggests: ‘domestic violence against women is the main cause of death and invalidity among women between the ages of 16 and 44.’ domestic violence against women and children is clearly a crime and i strongly support amendments that have highlighted that. however, a recommendation to produce higher-quality data cannot itself include inaccurate data. the statistic this amendment presents on the main cause of death is inaccurate. as recently as october a eurostat publication said that transport accidents and suicide were the main causes of death of women in that age group. because we want to make injury surveillance more comprehensive we include mention of risk-taking behaviour, drugs and alcohol, gender considerations, social and environmental condition. self-harm is also emphasised because of its increasing incidence. we have also made additions to the list of high-risk groups to include the young, the elderly, disabled people and women. the list is not exhaustive. i support the amendments on needle-stick injuries and injuries to healthcare workers. we know the solution to them. they are easily preventable and therefore completely inexcusable. it is clear that injury places a heavy burden on the economy. for me, however, it is a question of injured people and their families. in my opinion, the real key to preventing injury and promoting safety is the value we place on the human person. if you have a renaissance masterpiece you handle it with far more care than a magazine poster. we need to return again to people and their value as the central issue. some injuries will happen – we cannot prevent them all – but with better understanding of how they happen, resulting in safer products and practices, we can reduce their occurrence. however, we will not have a serious effect on the level of injury until people realise that every person matters and that the loss or disablement of even one person is a great loss to us all. when we understand that, we will treat each other and ourselves like the masterpiece that we are and we will realise our shared responsibility for each other’s safety. that is what is behind amendment 21 and why i emphasise to the commission that the tragedy of injury is so much more than the economic burden.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur for her work on this report and the commission for its contribution this evening. i will deal with the future, because that is important in terms of the review. however, as regards the issues in this report, as we have said, by and large we agree with much of the proposal. everyone recognises the need to control and monitor animal diseases, not only because of the human health implications, but also because of the economic consequences where there are outbreaks. take ireland in 2001, where we had a foot-and-mouth outbreak and the country came to a standstill. thankfully, we got it under control, but it showed what can happen when there are problems. information is the key to controlling, monitoring and being effective when diseases occur, and i am glad to see that we will be looking at better information systems within member states and between member states. the funding proposal for information policy is very positive, and the multiannual programme is a very practical proposal: it makes it easier for member states and that is to be welcomed, as are the joint programmes by two member states or border regions. we need the extension of the time limit for proposals from member states in relation to their disease programmes. we extended the list of diseases; we are conscious that article 6 allows for emergency situations, and that is to be welcomed. i have a particular point to make as we look to the future: europe needs to look beyond its borders and to ensure that our trade policy does not conflict with public health and food safety issues. we allow food imports into the eu and, at the very least, we need to ensure that the standards of our imports meet those of our home-produced food. we need to exclude imports where we have any doubt whatsoever. it is all too easy to import a problem, but it is very difficult to tackle a problem once it is within our borders. i am concerned that the wto may be pushing for trade without due concern to animal health and human health implications. i am not convinced that our current rules meet my concerns and i do not believe that computerised systems alone will protect us. let me finish by saying that we have taken the lead in the eu on these issues, but it would be regrettable if, in pursuit of a trade deal, we were to sacrifice our standards and the health of our animals and of our citizens.
rapporteur. – mr president, this regulation has been in gestation for almost two years. at times, the pressure on parliament to cave in, to divide, to give up our legislative role, was barely tolerable. i have been taken aback by the willingness of fellow meps, at times, to give other institutions carte blanche in this important area, so long as some little interest of theirs or influence was not lost. however, i wish to pay tribute to my colleagues in the committee on development – members who did not allow pressure to divide us, across all groups, and who, in the end, carried the day. i should also like to pay tribute to the secretariat of the development committee and to the secretariats of those groups that worked constructively with us in these negotiations. having threatened to reject the original development cooperation and economic cooperation instrument (dceci), as it was called, which sought to take away codecision powers by changing the legal base from article 179 to article 181a and to include developed countries and expenditure on non-development issues in a development instrument, we have negotiated with the council and the commission an instrument which few thought possible 12 months ago, one that will streamline eu activities for the developing world while maintaining accountability and transparency. i should like to pay tribute, in particular, to the negotiating team who accompanied me at those talks, to the successive presidencies for the work they have put in and to the commission for a good outcome. i have one reservation, however. i believe it was voltaire who said, ‘i do not agree with what you say, but i will defend to the death your right to say it.’ having approached the whole of the negotiations in a way that sought to accommodate, i was very disappointed that, on one particular issue, my views were not accommodated. it is not about diluting the availability of health services for women in need. in fact, if my amendments – which were modest – had been carried, the cairo conference and all the related issues would have been respected. indeed, having been at the centre of compromise, finding and supporting others, i was surprised that my modest proposals did not receive proper consideration. part of the reason for that seems to me to have been a piece of written advice that was circulated, which pre-empted my proposals by claiming that ppe policy had been decided. as the signatures to the amendments show here today, that is not the case and should not have been stated, especially at what was a very sensitive time in the concluding stages of the negotiations. i can support the general content of the common position, with that one reservation. i think it is a very good outcome for us: parliament has gained, insofar as we have maintained codecision under article 179, which is a very important principle to us. it is to be time-limited legislation. the specific instrument for development policy is this instrument; it will not have any other content. there will be more detailed financial provisions: the financial provisions of the proposal were another area of very serious concern for the committee, as they were extremely general and very far from the level of detail to which parliament, as part of the budgetary authority, was accustomed. that has now changed, and the common position now includes a breakdown of funding by programme and, in some cases, within programmes. we are also breaking new ground. the new dci will, for the first time, enshrine in a legal text the internationally accepted definition of development policy set out by the oecd development assistance committee. a commission declaration attached to the new dci will contain, also for the first time, the benchmark that the committee on development has been using since 2003 to promote increased focus on the key mdg sectors of basic education and basic health, and the commission has never before accepted the committee’s 20 % benchmark for these sectors, which has been accepted on this occasion. in relation to democratic scrutiny, further headway has also been made on the matter of the dialogue between parliament and the commission on the draft strategy papers to allow effective parliamentary scrutiny of the implementation of the dci, and i wish to thank commissioner ferrero-waldner and commissioner michel for their letter to me and to the chairperson of the committee confirming that. parliament does not want, or need, to be involved in micro-management, but it does give us an opportunity, through whatever structures we decide ourselves, to get involved at an early stage, thereby giving parliament a much improved role in the whole area of transparency and accountability. with the exception that i mentioned, i consider the common position as established by the council to be a very good outcome for the european parliament. as i said at the outset, i doubt very much that anybody 12 months ago would have thought that we could have achieved what we did achieve. but it shows that, when parliament stands together, when the different groups do not allow themselves to be divided and are determined not to give away the powers of this house, we can, with the other institutions, come up with a very good instrument and one that ensures that the prerogatives of this house are protected.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mr mitchell and mr van den berg on their excellent work on the development cooperation instrument. i have to say, though, that i strongly oppose the amendments put forward by mr mitchell on recital 18, article 5 and article 12. in a few days’ time we will not have a separate line for the funding of sexual and reproductive health rights and i think it would be a grave injustice, in particular to the women who are at risk from very serious illnesses in maternity, to remove these references. we are committed in various agreements already made by the european parliament with the commission, with the council and in international agreements, to precisely the language that is contained already in this dci, and it strikes me as disingenuous for mr mitchell to offer by way of explanation for these amendments the assertion that these matters cannot be dealt with in two lines. these issues have been debated ad nauseam by this house and by most national parliaments and the outcome is always the same in this parliament. this parliament stands behind the rights of people to choose independently their sexual activity, their sexual proclivities and their right to proper health services and to prevent the appalling death toll of something like 90 000 women who die annually as a result of backstreet abortions. we need to end that and i believe we should leave the report as it stands.
madam president, i, too, would like to congratulate mr mitchell and mr van den berg on the success of this report, which focuses on simplifying how eu aid would be spent in developing countries. i also would like to state that unfortunately i will not be able to support the amendments that mr mitchell has tabled, for the same reasons as outlined by mr de rossa. as he said, this is an issue that has been gone over on a number of occasions, both within parliament and internationally. i believe that we should stick to the agreements that have been there since cairo. ‘the us fights, the un feeds and the eu funds’. those are the words of a french international affairs student. however unfair, that paints a picture of the importance of the eu to developing countries. in recent years, the world has been tragically hit by disasters such as tsunamis, earthquakes in pakistan and the recent flooding in bangladesh. the united nations fund cerf was designed to fund and provide a rapid response to any sudden global emergencies and to provide critical funding which has already been put in place by international donors. in the first five months of this year, cerf has provided eur 200 million to more than 320 projects in 26 countries. however, echo has refused to contribute to cerf to date, arguing that it has its own rapid funding mechanism for swift and even-handed funding in emergencies. i would argue: what is the point in having two funds supposedly achieving the same goals? why not have one central fund which deals with these emergencies? i would urge the eu commissioner for humanitarian aid, mr michel, to open a line of discussions with the united nations to streamline the global response to international emergencies. bureaucracy must not get in the way of saving people’s lives, because that is what we are talking about. let us not fight over two different funding blocs when the aim is to feed and fund the people who have been hit by disasters as quickly as we possibly can.
madam president, i also wish to thank mrs klaß and the parliamentary team. at this stage in the process so much has been said that i shall use this minute to recall some basics on groundwater. it is important to remember that groundwater is very different to surface water, which moves in a continuously renewing cycle of flow, evaporation, precipitation and flow. only some groundwater is renewable and it can take water a very long time to percolate through the layers of the earth’s crust to renew the underground source which we can so quickly deplete. some sources of groundwater are not renewable. we sink wells which, once exploited, go dry. lastly, pollution works in two ways. groundwater may be safe to use or it may not. during the un international water decade in the 1980s, deep bore wells were drilled in parts of water-starved india. by the end of the decade people were beginning to show symptoms of skeletal sclerosis. now six million people suffer from severe skeletal sclerosis and 66 million to a lesser degree from naturally contaminated water. as we search for more sources of water, it is important that groundwater be protected from pollution, but it is also important to remember that protection from pollution works two ways.
madam president, i want to thank the rapporteur, mrs klaß, and the chair of the conciliation committee, mrs roth-behrendt, for this very good report and for the agreement that was achieved with the council. clean water is, clearly, vital to life, and we are fortunate in europe to have, at least relatively speaking, an abundant supply. we must maintain, and indeed improve, the quality of that supply, reversing the damage already done. i believe that in ireland, in particular, considerable damage has been done by illegal landfill sites and the abundant spreading of pig slurry by farmers on land. despite the concessions made to the council, i still believe we have a strong defence of the environment and water supply here. the key points are the ‘protection against deterioration’ requirement on member states, the requirement that nitrate quality standards be consistent with the water framework directive and the requirement for a revision to be carried out every six years. finally, i want to refer to the enhanced role of parliament under the new comitology procedure.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, today we mark another step in the progress of romania and bulgaria towards welcoming them back into the family of democratic nations within the european union. i welcome the appointment of commissioner-designate kuneva and commissioner-designate orban, and i hope that all colleagues within this chamber will not use political points to try and attack them in the important role that they will undertake in the future. in particular, the respect for diversity that will be required in the european union of the 21st century is encompassed by the portfolio that commissioner orban will have, and i call on all colleagues to be as generous as possible towards him, and to all the commissioners, but in particular to be helpful towards him in suggesting new ways in which that diversity can be protected within the european union. finally, at this important juncture, it is vital that all peoples across europe come together and unite, and understand that, no matter what may divide us in our different ideologies, or in our different political opinions, or, indeed, in our different religions, the things that bring us together, the things that we share, are far more powerful and far greater, in order to effect change for the good, not only in europe but on the world stage. rather than being bogged down in mere politics, let us look to the bigger picture. let us grasp the opportunities that have been given to romania and bulgaria today, but, most importantly of all, let us grasp the opportunities which have been given to the european union to act as a beacon of hope, of democracy, of freedom, of respect for human rights, across the world. in particular, let us ensure that we can do this collectively for the betterment of all mankind. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, i shall be brief. i wish to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the secretariat, and to say that safety is something that affects us all. a split second can change our lives, and the challenge is to save lives and to preserve health.
in writing. irish consumers know only too well the reality that is rip-off ireland. spiralling costs of basic services such as gas and electricity, or outrageous mobile phone and roaming charges continue to hit irish consumers hard. of course those living in or at risk from poverty are hardest hit. in order to counter this unacceptable situation, government needs to step in with stronger regulation and resourcing of the relevant consumer protection agencies. in this context i welcome today’s report by marianne thyssen mep. the aim of the report is to initiate an action programme in the field of consumer protection for the years 2007 to 2013. the programme seeks to complement, support and monitor the policies of the member states and to contribute to protecting the health, safety, economic and legal interests of consumers. the programme would also attempt to promote consumer rights to information, to education and to organise themselves in order to safeguard their interests. in sinn fein’s view the irish government need to take a lead in strengthening the rights and protections of consumers. however, there is clearly a role for the eu, to assist member states’ agencies in sharing models of best practice and ensuring a level of consistency throughout the european union.
in writing. i supported this report so as to allow for a swift correction of directive 2002/2/ec by deleting the obligation for feed manufacturers to inform customers on request of the exact composition of compound feedingstuffs, in line with the ruling of the court of justice. the ecj ruled that this provision provided too little in the way of additional health protection to justify the serious impact on the interests of the manufacturers. however, i am concerned and disappointed that the legal services of the institutions prevented elected meps from tabling more far-reaching amendments to this controversial piece of legislation. the intention was to amend the rules that currently require all feed materials in a compound feedingstuff to be indicated with a declaration of percentage by weight. disclosing exact percentages for animal feedingstuffs goes beyond the equivalent provisions applicable to food for human consumption. in most cases, ingredient listing by weight is sufficient to protect the interests of farmers and consumers and the formulations of the manufacturers. i expect the commission to take on board these concerns in its review of feed legislation programmed for next year.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this report presents many positive things about the eu, for instance what it is doing to promote human rights and democracy. however, the report has several glaring omissions – more than i can mention, so i will confine myself to the subject of china. china is the only country in the world where the suicide rate is higher for women than for men. approximately 500 women commit suicide in china every day, and yet the report does not say one word about china’s ‘one child’ policy, which denies women the right to make real choices in their lives. what is more, it says nothing about disabled people in china. i met with a disability group when i was there last year, and everything pointed to the fact that people with disabilities like down’s syndrome are simply eliminated before or after birth. in china the children of prisoners are ostracised by the government and by society and they often – indeed, usually – have a worse chance of survival than their parents in prison. and those parents may have been imprisoned for any reason. when you allow this kind of omission and, at the same time, sit down at friendly trade negotiations with china, you are in danger of signalling eu approval.
mr president, today has been a day when parliament has focused on human rights, with this debate and with the presentation of the sakharov prize earlier on, and i welcome that. the council report itself covers the eu external and internal policies, as well as bilateral eu human rights policies with regard to third countries and action on multilateral fora, in addition to analysing a range of thematic issues. in terms of the process of putting the report together, i am still not satisfied that there has been sufficient consultation between the council and parliament and, in particular, with the human rights sub-committee. last year the finnish presidency was invited by the parliament’s annual report to consult actively with parliament in the drafting of its own annual report. however, this did not take place in as active a way as we had hoped for. as agreed last year, parliament supports the idea of a single eu report on human rights, representing the three institutions, to avoid unnecessary duplication of work. however, that can only be achieved if there is increased consultation between the council and parliament. ideally, we should see the council bringing a draft before the relevant committee so that we can have an exchange of views on the text before it is finally adopted. i am rapporteur for the 2006 european parliament report and i will continue to urge the council to produce an all-encompassing cross-institutional report. i will maintain the narrow focus of last year’s report, to constructively assess and criticise the performance of the three institutions in the field of human rights. today, the sakharov prize was awarded to an outstanding candidate. he is the leader of the opposition in belarus and we have a responsibility to continue to support him. i want to encourage the council and commission to continue to raise the profile of the sakharov prize in general. in that regard, it is regrettable that two past award winners, aung san suu kyi of burma, and ladies in white from cuba, have not been able to come to parliament to collect their awards. i hope we will succeed in going to both of those countries with an ep delegation to deliver the awards.
mr president, i too should like to thank the commission. this is a very important debate which goes to the very heart of europe, and is what this parliament is all about. this is a fine report, but it is only a report. very often what we need in these situations is action. i should like everyone here to put their hands on their hearts and ask themselves whether we have done everything we possibly can to stop the massive abuse of human rights in darfur, which continues as we speak. over 200 000 people have died and two and a half million people have been displaced. it goes on, and on, and on. i do not believe we can honestly say that we have done everything we can and that we have thrown parliament’s full weight behind diplomatic initiatives to end what is going on and put pressure on the sudanese government to stop what it is doing. they are playing cat-and-mouse while hundreds of thousands of people are dying. this is a fine report, and i support it. however, as we debate the issue of human rights and the eu’s position on them, i really do not believe we are doing enough to stop what is going on in darfur.
mr president, i welcome this debate and would like to make a few brief points. mr stubb identified different classifications of people and politics on this issue of enlargement and the constitution. i am very much pro-enlargement because i believe it has been successful and will continue to be. but i am also against the constitution. the concept of integration capacity is, potentially, one that will be used to sell or portray the constitution as simply a matter of tweaking the institutions to allow for enlargement in practice. that would not only be a misrepresentation of that text, but would represent a real failure on our part in terms of what we keep talking about: communication with the citizens of the eu. to communicate, we must listen, and we must have that very fundamental debate on the direction of the union. where citizens see public services and workers’ rights undermined, there is no good way of communicating that, so we need to be receptive. finally, on the issue of turkey, i support accession, but the issue of cyprus must be sorted out. this is a matter of a continuing illegal occupation.
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to thank the members of the committee on regional development for the support they have given to this report. i also wish to thank the secretariat for its input. nothing i can say can adequately express the gratitude that the irish people on both sides of the border feel for the investment that europe has made for the economic regeneration of northern ireland, the border counties in the irish republic and the northern ireland peace process. to date the international fund for ireland has contributed eur 803 million of funding and has leveraged a further eur 1.46 billion in supporting 5700 projects and the creation of 55 000 direct and indirect jobs. it is has also played a crucial role in easing sectarian tensions and bridging the divisions between the two traditions on the island. the guns are now hopefully permanently silent and the economies of northern ireland and the border counties of the south are beginning to realise their true economic potential. this will be the last time that we will ask the eu for funding for this programme, as the international fund will cease in 2010. we have had many false dawns in the past regarding the permanent political solution in northern ireland. however, my irish colleagues and i are confident that we are, at long last, on the brink of a lasting solution and that a devolved government will soon become a reality for the long term. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. on amendment 226, which deals with a code of conduct on advertising of foods aimed at children, i voted against as i do not think this amendment is strong enough in its wording to get member states to address the urgent concerns about increasing obesity levels in children. i supported amendment 170 in order to put down a marker that there is a need to control the issue of marketing of unhealthy foodstuffs to children. on amendment 169 relating to alcohol, i support calls for a ban on alcohol advertising until after 9 p.m., notwithstanding that in ireland we do have a strong voluntary code in place. a review of the first year of the code is due in march 2007 and this will assist us in making decisions about the effectiveness or otherwise of such codes.
in writing. while we strongly support measures to improve the situation of workers made redundant through the relocation of companies, we feel that the european globalisation adjustment fund is not up to the task. the funds available are totally inadequate, reaching less than 10% of workers made redundant through restructuring operations. sme restructuring and redundancies in smaller member states, which has a serious impact on national, regional and local economies, will benefit very little from the egaf. we welcome the fact that some redundant workers from big companies will have access to this fund, and call on the companies concerned to seriously negotiate with workers’ representatives and to not use the existence of the fund to back out of their social obligations.
mr president, i just want to explain why i opposed amendment 1 to the higgins report, in other words the changing of the legal basis from article 308 of the treaty to article 159. i can understand why many members of parliament would support this, as it will extend the power of parliament because the fund has economic and social objectives. parliament, of course, is within its rights. however, i am concerned that there may be unintended consequences because i believe that the council is unlikely to agree and that this will mean a delay. that delay, if it happens, would have the effect of delaying funding to projects that are already under way. i think this would have very serious consequences because it is a particularly sensitive time politically in northern ireland at the moment. we are about to take the final step and i really do not think we need any negative signals coming from the eu. also, to some extent, it is a hollow victory for parliament as this will be the last time that parliament will be asked to approve funding for the programme because it finishes in 2010. also, i voted in error on amendment 169 to the hieronymi report. i simply pressed the wrong button. i should have pressed ‘plus’.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i should like to welcome the president-in-office of the council and the president of the commission. there seems to be some difficulty with the running order of speakers in the house after the changes that have taken place in the size of groups today. i should have spoken earlier on, but we will deal with that later. obviously, some people still feel upset that there is movement within parliament. i thank the president-in-office of the council for her contributions, not just today, but over the period of the finnish presidency of the european union. in particular, i congratulate her and her government on their tenacity and willingness to be involved in what were considered to be many difficult issues. despite the fact that some of those issues continue to create difficulties, i believe that some progress has been made. firstly, with regard to the issue of russia and the whole energy area, we have made significant steps with regard to creating a partnership of equals. it is not just a matter of one side being dependent on the other; there is an interdependence on both sides of that relationship. however, it is unfortunate that the russian authorities – the health and agricultural inspectorates – were giving mixed signals with regard to the issue of meat imports into russia from the european union and trying to divide the unity that exists within the european union concerning the whole question of health and food safety, after we fought long and hard within the union to create a common standard of good quality and guaranteed quality produce. i hope that, at the council meeting tomorrow, the leaders, the president-in-office of the council and the president of the commission will deal with that issue most urgently. secondly, with regard to enlargement and integration capacity, particularly as regards turkey, despite the efforts of some people to try to simplify the issue of turkey in terms of being in favour of or against cyprus, cyprus is a single, separate issue. it is a matter for the cypriot people and the turkish people to find a solution themselves. however, turkey entered into agreements with the european union, under the ankara protocol, to do certain things. if they are not willing to live up to their prior agreement and their prior knowledge as regards what we expect them to do, then there have to be repercussions, but it should not be a shut-off. darfur is the most appalling humanitarian crisis that we have witnessed in the 21st century – continuing genocide and ethnic cleansing – and yet we all stand back, say ‘how terrible!’ and beat our hearts but do not do anything to try to resolve the issue. these are the issues that we have to deal with immediately, not just for our own credibility but for the safety and security of africa and the european union.
i wish to thank the president-in-office for that answer. i did not get a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to my question, but a very interesting résumé of the problems of climate change – all of which i agree with, but i already know. my question was whether the council agreed that avoided deforestation must be included in any post-2012 settlement – in other words, the second commitment period, if we are still talking in kyoto terms. would it be the council’s view that avoided deforestation would be part of our tools and mechanisms for reducing carbon dioxide emissions?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, early this year there was a terrible car crash in my parish. four young eastern european citizens died. they had tried to negotiate one of those dreadful irish country roads in the dark and they were not used to the different driving conditions of ireland. unfortunately, this is not a lone incident. similarly, an irish neighbour died while working in spain. europeans are on the move. i go to your country, you come to mine. it is a wonderful thing, yet when it comes to driving in safety it is a fact that some are used to driving on the right and others on the left, that drivers are used to varying acceptable levels of speed, different weather conditions and vastly differing roads and, critically, that drivers are trained, tested and licensed to different levels of competence. a learner’s permit in one country may be equivalent to a full licence in another. because we are free to move around europe, we are driving on each other’s roads. the problem is that when such differences lead to death, these discrepancies can no longer be tolerated. i agree with several things in the report. the principle of progressive access regarding two-wheeled vehicles would surely improve safety. it is also clearly not practical to have 110 different-looking driving licences, which can be displayed but not understood, so the idea of having a single format and code for categories is reasonable. however, the traffic laws, roads, weather, etc. are so different that a national test and licence will remain essential for a driver. however, a european driver’s licence should be available, like the old international licence, for those who drive in other countries of the union for more than just a brief holiday. finally, although it is not in the report, if we are ultimately to have a european driver’s licence, we should look at a different model from the one-test-for-a-lifetime model that we have in europe. with such a model, the quality of the test can be very high, which makes it very difficult and very expensive for young people to get, and yet no one looks at the skills of a driver 20 years on. i would recommend the american model of repeat tests: a written test is taken every four years and a road test every eight years and skills must be kept up. the level of safety is high in the test, probably the level of technical knowledge, etc. would not be as great, but people continue to drive... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i primarily want to thank mr grosch and all the other members of this house who have worked on this important piece of european legislation. i would support almost anything that will improve the safety of our roads. i come from a member state – ireland – which has one of the worst fatality rates of all, which is causing considerable concern to all our citizens. it is partly to do with the fact that we do not have adequate training of drivers, partly also that we have so many drivers on the road who are unqualified. of the 2.5 million drivers on irish roads, 410 000 do not have a driving qualification – they are on what are known as provisional licences. some 30 000 of them are on their fifth provisional licence. clearly they are a danger to other road users, so i appeal to those who have reservations about this piece of legislation to support it and support the preservation of life on our roads.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – madam president, i welcome the two commission communications on the biomass action plan and on the eu strategy for biofuels. clearly, there is an urgent need to increase the demand for bioenergy in order to combat climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, to reduce oil dependency and to enhance technology and economic development within the european union. the question is, how do we do that? i consider that increasing demand in bioenergy would be achieved by prioritising research, development and demonstration of bioenergy and biofuels – particularly regarding second-generation and most efficient products – by promoting the creation of transparent and open markets and the removal of market barriers and through information campaigns involving producers, suppliers and consumers. it is paramount for the future of bioenergy increase that this increase should not jeopardise european or third countries’ ability to achieve environmental priorities, such as halting the loss of biodiversity, protecting forests, preventing soil degradation and achieving the good ecological status of its water body. i welcome the langen report’s inclusion of the environment committee’s request that the commission introduce a mandatory and comprehensive certification system. coordination within commission departments and member state government departments encompassing an integrated approach is key. i would urge the commission to monitor progress and to formulate a cohesive policy involving all actors in the process of production and supply of biomass and biofuels. in addition, it is crucial that member states are allowed the necessary discretion and flexibility to decide for themselves their own goals and political measures, while reaching broad community targets. bioenergy production should always comply with good agricultural practice and should not significantly affect domestic food production within the european union and in third countries, and incentives should not be intended as indirect subsidies but should be limited to that which provides the highest efficiency, as well as environmental and climate benefits. however, increased bioenergy production would provide a very positive boost to the farming community, and i believe investment in small-scale biofuel projects within the primary agricultural sector would be extremely beneficial. i welcome the commission’s proposal to encourage public procurement of clean and efficient vehicles, including using high biofuel blends. i call on member states to encourage the development of national bioenergy action plans and welcome my own government’s move towards encouraging bioenergy production and incentives in the transport sector, as evidenced in last week’s budget in my country.
in writing. i welcome this directive which will replace over 110 different driving licence models currently in circulation throughout the eu. i believe that this new single eu-wide credit card format will also go a long way in combating driving licence tourism. the net effect of this will be that member states like ireland can refuse to issue a driving licence to an applicant whose permit was restricted, suspended or withdrawn in another member state. i also support the targeted road safety aspect to this report, with a theory test for mopeds becoming compulsory from 2013. also, the principle of "progressive access" will mean that riders must accumulate experience on smaller motorcycles before moving up to larger engines. i have always maintained that on certain issues exchange of best practice and standard setting at eu level can often reap positive results. in this respect i believe that eu standard setting on the basic qualifications and retraining programmes for driving examiners is a positive development.
in writing. in this report there are a number of points we do not agree with, particularly in relation to nuclear power and liberalisation. however, we have decided to vote in favour as there are a lot of positive elements in the report, particularly its emphasis on renewable energy, which is clean, cost-effective and secure. we also agree that there should be an emphasis on fuel poverty.
mr president, after east timor, somalia, kosovo and congo, can we really see what is happening in haiti and liberia as exceptional? wherever the un goes it seems that sexual abuse occurs against the civilians they are supposed to protect. kofi annan has been the secretary-general of the un and its peacekeeping forces for many years while this abuse by un personnel, for whom he bears responsibility, has been taking place. he has done nothing about it. instead, he allows it to be covered up, as an internal un report on sexual abuse in east timor demonstrates. though sexual abuse has been a problem there since the arrival of the un in 1999, not one un staff contractor or soldier has been brought to justice, even when it involved east timorese children. the pope and the vatican are held responsible for sexual abuse by priests, so why does the same principle not apply to kofi annan and the un? mr annan will retire soon to great honours and a generous pension. i hope his successor will take sexual abuse seriously.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i also wish to join my colleagues in thanking prime minister vanhanen for the work of the finnish presidency. i also wish to put on the record once again my thanks to minister lehtomäki who, over the last six months, has been so good to all of us here in parliament and has been most attentive and engaging at all times. several things immediately strike me with regard to the summit. firstly, as the prime minister pointed out, there were no serious headlines highlighting a split or a division amongst the member states of the european union. whilst people may find that boring or dull, it leads to the conclusion that there has been a certain success, because only when there is failure do people put a spin on why the failure happened, to blame somebody else. therefore there is success concerning the decisions that have been taken. that success is predicated under four cs: consistency, coordination, cooperation and consensus. despite what people may think about using passerelle clauses to do this, that or the other, if the member states’ governments cannot agree to move forward together, nothing that you try to do is going to make that happen. likewise, when president barroso speaks about competitiveness and the actions of the european commission, of course we must be given leadership and ensure that leadership continues in so many different areas. however, it is a mistake to speak of bringing in tax harmonisation through a back door, when it is clearly not within the powers in the treaties. likewise, it is also a mistake to try to link budgetary reform to the adoption of a constitution or a constitutional treaty and to further enlargement, because it sends out the wrong signals with regard to what the european union should be about. one of the major successes in the council’s conclusions has been the idea of solidarity amongst the member states concerning our dealings with russia. russia’s attempt to use a ban on meat exports from the european union to try to pick off countries individually for bilateral agreements has given an opportunity to show there is a collective agreement amongst the member states not to give in to that kind of negotiation. we should treat russia as an equal partner and an important neighbour but we must not be dominated simply by the strength that one partner has over another in certain areas. likewise, with regard to the question of immigration policy, it is not often that i agree with mr watson, but i agree with him on the key issue of looking at the core reasons why immigration takes place and why there is so much illegal immigration. why do people put their lives at risk by crossing thousands of miles of ocean to get to the promised land unless they are running away from something, some horror or danger to themselves? we have spoken around the issue, but nobody mentions the issue of darfur and the continuing genocide that is taking place there and the failure of the international community to respond and to react. no matter how much we try to say what a great european union we are, as the biggest donors of development aid, the largest participation force in the congo and sending a signal as regards the kind of future world we want to see, we are still failing the people of darfur who have no voice, who have no country to speak for them and, in fact, have been let down not just by the european union and the us but by the united nations itself. our resolve for 2007 should be to ensure that we will never see that occur again. finally, let me put on the record, after mr schulz has thanked the interpreters, that i also want to thank them for their work, because it is most important that we are understood. to make sense of what mr schulz has to say is even more important, and i appreciate that from them as well. mr president, as you are finishing up, i wish to congratulate you on your work and i hope that you will continue your work in parliament and rise to even greater heights. (applause)
mr president, my thanks and congratulations to all those involved in the finnish presidency. i have felt for some time that the success of a presidency is inversely proportional to the size of the country. and so to the constitutional treaty. the irish are due to ratify by referendum, but my question is: which text? we have had president borrell fontelles telling us that there is no doubt the text will not be implemented as it stands. he said that in italy. in ireland recently he said we must go ahead and ratify the text as it stands. i was not there; i was in brussels voting at a part-session. the presidency has been saying today that the text has its merits, but the dilemma is that it cannot be presented again exactly as it stands to the french and dutch. on the other hand, 18 member states have already ratified it. we have heard from my good colleague, mr poettering, who wants ratification of the constitutional treaty. mixed messages are going out. the countries that have to ratify it by referendum particularly need clear guidance. is it the existing text or do we wait for a new text? yes, it is over to the germans. a happy christmas to everybody.
