mr president, ladies and gentlemen, either we achieve freedom together or we do not. these are the words that martin luther king spoke when he launched the campaign for the rights of black people. by that he meant that there are no black rights or white rights but that there are simply human rights. fighting homophobia is not about showing sympathy to a specific section of the population, but it is about defending human rights in the first place. i am afraid of the arrogance of those who deny a homosexual the possibility of donating blood; i am afraid of the discriminatory campaigns of those who cannot speak about risky behaviour but still hint at at risk subjects in the fight against aids; or those who forbid a homosexual, just because he is, to drive a car. nor can i remain silent about the behaviour of a commission which adopts a pontius pilate attitude, that is to say, which does not demand compliance with a directive, which does exist, against discrimination; a commission which should initiate infringement proceedings against nations which do not respect the free choice of sexual orientation: this is happening in italy, poland and many other countries. this is not a problem affecting just a group of people, but it is a problem affecting the dignity of the whole european union.
i have received five motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the written declaration (article 142)
mr buitenweg, i am sorry, but rule 143 (1) has nothing to do with your request to speak. it simply states that 'members who ask to speak are entered in the list of speakers in the order in which they are asked to speak'. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr giusto catania, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the fourth report on citizenship of the union (1 may 2001 - 30 april 2004) (2005/2060 (ini)) (a6-0411/2005).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the recognition of citizenship and the rights attaching to it is a prerogative of the member states. the european citizenship is a concept in the making, a right derived from national citizenship. the fact that each country has different procedures for recognising national citizenship means that there is no uniform procedure for obtaining european citizenship. the report, for which i am rapporteur, does not call into question the prerogative of the member states: the right to citizenship and its recognition are their prerogatives, as expressly recognised by the treaties. perhaps the time is not ripe yet, and i have seen this reflected in the debate in the committee on the harmonization of the procedures for the recognition of citizenship. however, i think it is extremely useful and necessary to start thinking - in a short time - about the real and effective value of the concept of european citizenship. in my view - and this is not just my view but also the view of the majority of the committee on civil liberties - the only way to give real value to the concept of european citizenship is to link it intimately to that of residence. the european citizenship of residence is a very serious issue and this debate has involved thousands of associations and intellectuals who have already started a petition for the activation of this institute. european citizenship of residence can also be combined with the other forms of recognition of citizenship, namely citizenship by right of blood or ius solis, which are provided for in many countries of the european union. i believe that the recognition of residence citizenship is a way of eliminating and avoiding certain paradoxes: i think it is unfair to consider as a european citizen someone who works, lives and resides legally in the territory of the union, a citizen who has lived and worked in a member state for ten or twenty years, but who unfortunately was born to tunisian or egyptian parents. i believe that blood, place of birth and residence can, together and at the same time, constitute valid elements for the recognition of the right to citizenship. the fact that after five years of legal residence in europe one can become a citizen of the union seems to us a practical way of reopening the debate on the future of europe, which, after the rejection of the constitutional treaty, has plunged into a crisis that risks being lethal and irreversible. some rights attached to citizenship of the union are already conferred on the basis of residence: i am referring to the right to petition the european parliament or to the right to address the ombudsman. the right to move and reside freely and the right to vote in european and local elections can therefore be extended to include citizens of the union residing in a country other than their own. this would be an important step towards the integration of the many non-eu citizens who are living in europe on a regular basis. i would also ask my colleagues in the group of the european people's party to support this position and to abandon their overly extreme positions. the proposed document, in addition to having the support of my group, the socialist group, the greens and the liberal group in the committee, also had the support of the commission, whose officials expressed a positive opinion in the committee on civil liberties on the activation of residence citizenship. commissioner frattini also expressed his readiness to provide support in this direction. i think this is a very important step, which has also been endorsed by many social, trade union and civil society organisations, both secular and catholic: i am referring to two major italian organizations, such as caritas, and a major catholic trade union, such as cisl, which have publicly expressed their support for this report, in order to establish residence citizenship. finally, i would like to reassure those who, in their comments on this report, have raised the spectre of the introduction of a european tax to extend citizenship rights. among them is even the italian prime minister, who in a recent television broadcast incorrectly stated that this parliament wants to introduce a tax to extend citizenship. for the avoidance of doubt, although i do not see the danger in this report, i propose that we eliminate the explicit reference to the european tax and concentrate exclusively on the concept of citizenship of residence. i hope that this will also help to remove some of the alibis of those who are afraid of extending rights in europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the report by mrs christa prets, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on strategies to prevent trafficking in women and children exposed to sexual exploitation (2004/2216 (ini)) (a6-0400/2005).
i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but i am saying that we should not be able to do this. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it has been a great help to the people of europe. how can you talk about the overthrow of protectionism or the defence of the free market when each of the 25,000 cotton growers in the united states receives an average of $114,000 a year in subsidies? this practice results in a 15% decrease in the price of cotton on the international market. the 20 million african farmers are thus reduced to starvation: and among them are farmers from mali, benin, burkina faso, chad, niger, all countries that rank lowest on the un human development index. how can we talk about development policy when a policy based on agricultural dumping is being extended until 2013, with the result that the economies of developing countries are being further destroyed, when 70% of the world's population lives off the produce of the land? the european union and the united states have accused each other, but no one has been prepared to cut export subsidies for cotton in the agricultural sector. this means continuing to create a monopoly regime dominated by agribusiness multinationals. we have not heard a word about the need to include social clauses and to respect them: i have no idea what the commissioner is thinking. not only that, the developing countries have been forced to open their markets to industrial products from the north, having to reduce their customs duties considerably. this results in an unequal competition which will further destroy the little industry which has so far developed in africa and the poor regions of asia. to a distracted public, saying 97% can mean a lot. we know that the problem will be precisely those 3% of products for which there will be no possibility of free access to the markets of the northern hemisphere. furthermore, the planned development aid has not been confirmed by precise figures, nor is it specified whether it is actual aid or loans: a mirror for the larks who are revealing themselves in all their falsehood. the services market is opened up: education and social and health services will be less and less a right and more and more a commodity available only to those who can afford it, and there is a risk that water will also be included in this market as a commodity, a commodity that in the near future will compete with oil in the market. not to mention the situation of access to medicines, which are actually denied to the 30 million hiv-positive people living in africa. i would like to know how it is possible, in the face of this reality, to speak of a development round.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the process initiated in qatar was called the development round. the hong kong ministerial meeting has not kept its promise and this is a worrying fact because if we fail to bring two billion human beings out of poverty and hunger, we will be heading for a series of uncontrollable and devastating political and social explosions. i understand that it was very difficult to reach a compromise, but the 2014 target for eliminating subsidies is too far away. a lot will happen, i'm afraid, between now and then. perhaps it was not only europe's fault, but it was also our fault, not commissioner mandelsson's but europe's. it was said that more and better had to be done to help and protect those who could not do it themselves and who would be - and are - overwhelmed by the market. it is important to acknowledge that commissioner mandelsson has represented a europe that is less domineering than the united states in hong kong. but it is the state of the west as a whole that must lead us to a whole new reflection if we do not want the round to fail under the blows of the growing world disorder we are already witnessing. the meetings we had in hong kong demonstrated three essential points. first, the need to reform the world trade organization. secondly, that the sides are diverging and that china is waiting for us at the door. thirdly, there is a need for a radical change in the very concept of world trade which led to the creation of the wto.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we expected much more from the hong kong meeting, even though the interlocutory nature of the meeting had already been announced. beyond the good intentions about the need to secure a multilateral trading system, too many problems have been left unaddressed. among the many issues that are of particular concern to thousands of european businesses and workers is the problem of unfair competition from certain non-eu countries to the detriment of europe: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. in simple terms, this means the invasion of european markets by products which are very cheap, but which in fact cost a great deal in terms of human rights violations, exploitation of workers and disregard for the environment. these are products of poor quality, which literally plunder the intellectual and technological heritage of european enterprises with impunity. the elimination of trade barriers is a good thing - no one denies this - but this cannot be translated into a simple opportunity to bring into our markets counterfeit goods or goods produced by slave labour or child labour. in conclusion, mr president, we have a duty to insert in the wto rules strict rules on the protection of intellectual property, rules for the protection of quality products by means of geographical indication of origin, and also clauses requiring respect for the environment and the protection of workers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are forgetting that on many occasions members of this parliament have already expressed, without being heard, their disagreement with the need to adopt this directive. however, if it is to be adopted at all costs, in the name of opening up to competition and of a legal framework which will bring transparency and harmonisation to port management procedures, this directive should at least be fair and rational. the present proposal creates a number of distortions and has undoubtedly undesirable consequences, such as a reduction in qualifications, with obvious negative effects on overall safety levels. in particular, it confers on the piloting service alone the prerogatives linked to the safeguarding of maritime safety and specific public service obligations. on the contrary, these characteristics are inherent in all technical and nautical services, including mooring, which should therefore be specifically protected and not subject to the rules of the free market. i therefore ask that the safety of our ports and the professionalism of our staff be given the highest priority. if not, i shall be forced to vote against it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a strong continental economy needs a port system, not individual ports, but one which integrates the europe of 25 and allows the transition from opening up competition to strengthening overall competitiveness. the directive does not achieve its objective and this, at a time of severe european political crisis, is a bad sign, indeed a bad sign, of the distance between the institutions and the real needs in a globalised way of the interests at stake, which are many but which cannot be reconciled according to old patterns. the wrong signals must be rejected. what we need is a vision of common port management, a common policy, transparent guidelines for investment and state aid, which do not simply state that competition between ports is the priority, but which prevent the competitive disadvantages of some of these ports from weakening the whole system. we need to protect the skilled workforce, which rejects social dumping and welcomes common training instead. we need to protect the efficiency of public services, recognizing their safety, quality and accessibility requirements, and we need to assess the impact of liberalization, because what is worrying at this historic moment are the phenomena of concentration of production and logistics that are taking place in ports around the world. these are the new challenges and the directive fails to address them. what happened in the transition between the first proposal in 2001 and this second is not a good example of european policy. however, i reiterate the need for a directive and rules and to this end a strong political commitment is required which does not give up despite the autonomy of ports to indicate common rules...
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are with the dockers against a directive which is wrong for work, for safety rights and for the economy itself, because it proposes competition based on dumping and which must therefore be rejected as it was in 2003. we must reflect on the disruption that liberal policies are bringing about. port work has a long and glorious tradition, creating rights and prosperity by linking trade with the cities that hosted them. without this nobility of work, which is being torn away in the name of liberalism, there is no future for europe. the european social model is our greatest asset and this directive, like the bolkestein directive, is its negation. that is why i think that the workers are right and that this parliament should accede to their request by rejecting the directive in question.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to add a few technical points. i think that this proposal does not take account of the green paper being prepared by the commissioner for transport, mr barrot. we must take advantage of this initiative to examine the new service offerings from the newly admitted countries and we must compare the obligations arising from national laws on the cost of goods, so that there are indeed free market conditions. i think that the directive in question is absolutely contrary to the rules of competition and the market, because it allows the establishment of oligopolies by large companies operating in the ports of northern europe, compared with the different reality of the ports of the mediterranean, and above all it allows easy aggression by large companies from east asia, which are invading our port system. it is essential that we compare the effects of state aid policies on competition and clarify the concept and practical applicability of such aid, particularly as regards concessionary fees and other forms which allow a service provider to provide services as a public service and under public rules. the directive lacks, above all, a comparison of the environmental protection rules for the construction of new infrastructure and of the waste disposal policies. we must clarify the rules on competitiveness in the face of the risks of unfair competition coming from the east and, even more so, the environmental guarantees for the mediterranean, which is under attack by operators who do not comply with community environmental legislation. the self-produced products represent a very serious danger to the small and mediumsized enterprises operating within our ports.
in writing. the national alliance delegation to the european parliament voted against the brok report because it considered the following issues to be essential prerequisites for croatia's accession to the european union: 1. the to call for the suspension of eu accession negotiations as long as the croatian authorities maintain the ban on eu citizens of italian nationality from accessing the property market, in clear contradiction with the principles of the community acquis; 2. the to demand, as a condition of croatia's accession, full compensation for the seized property of the thousands of citizens of italian origin expelled from croatian territory since 1946; the third. to ask the croatian authorities to admit responsibility, now historically established and documented, for the deportations, atrocities, massacres and ethnic cleansing of thousands of people of italian origin perpetrated by the communist regime since 1946.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my deep regret that the catania report has not been adopted by this parliament, which at times has progressive and at other times very conservative tendencies. the deepest regret is that my own group was divided on the vote on this report, which, in the most genuinely liberal spirit, should have been voted on. it is true that european citizenship is a process which is complementary to citizenship of one of the member states: but this is an objective we must pursue, through political operations in which europe gives itself the dignity it deserves, by trying to interpret the new needs and new rights of citizenship as best as possible, which in any case emerge even before the law takes care of them. for this reason, in expressing my regret at this vote against, i would also like to express my full solidarity with my colleague mr catania, with whom i have worked and shared the amendments.
in writing. the sexual exploitation of women and children is a scourge of humanity that is becoming more and more widespread with the passage of time. i fully support the idea of strict criminal laws against clients of sex slaves. but it's not enough. we need a common and effective strategy. the trafficking of human beings, which is run by a veritable multinational mafia-like organised crime, has its origins in the desperation and misery of men and women who flee their countries of origin to the rich countries of the world in search of employment and well-being. although trafficking in women and children is primarily for sexual exploitation, it is also used for other equally deplorable and degrading purposes: forced labour, slavery and, what i consider most shameful, the export of organs. it is well known that sexual exploitation is part of a wider range of criminal activities, including sex tourism, drug trafficking, arms and radioactive waste smuggling. in order to help fight mafia and similar criminal networks, i propose again - as i did in march 2004 - the establishment of a european observatory to monitor the mafia phenomenon and propose solutions to harmonise the rules on sanctions in the eu countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. the events of the international political news and, at the same time, the economic data, including the constant increase in the price of oil, bring to the attention of the union a clear and well-known situation: there is a structural problem of energy supply and a growing rate of dependence. the world's demand for energy is increasing, the planet's resources are not unlimited and, in any case, our union does not have enough to meet its own needs. the latest events show that the energy supply on which our economy is based can be called into question and that is a risk we absolutely cannot take. it is essential also on the basis of the agreements signed, such as the european energy charter, which creates an interaction between europe, russia and the mediterranean countries to promote closer international synergy. energy cooperation with third countries is a central dimension of the european supply strategy and contributes to the consolidation of stable international political relations. in this context, and particularly with russia, clear, definite, concrete and lasting agreements must now be made. on the one hand, it is therefore urgent to implement the recommendations recently made to the member states on the implementation of energy-saving measures, which require a serious commitment on the part of these institutions, the member states and each individual citizen. on the other hand, we must finally tackle the complex and comprehensive debate on the choice of technological directions and the production and use of alternative and renewable energies. this is a debate which, despite the various crises, including the recent ones, which have scarred the european economy over the last forty years, has unfortunately not yet taken place: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the uen group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have always supported the commission's haste in passing its proposal, which breached the institutional and community rules, as suspect, to say the least. it seemed obvious why they were in such a hurry: the commissioner would have had greater difficulty, after the wto negotiations, in getting a reform passed, which would have been characterized above all by large price reductions and partial compensation for losses. my group, mr president, in agreeing on the need for reform, has always called for it to be carried out with the necessary changes, keeping in mind the essential objective of maintaining the sector's competitiveness in the medium and long term in relation to the international framework. we have therefore opposed from the outset the commission's proposal which, by sacrificing the less favoured and weaker areas, intends to concentrate production in certain member states, making only a few pay the price of an inevitable reduction in overall european production. fortunately, the council has softened the commission's original proposal, including by introducing the possibility for member states to grant coupled aid to production up to a maximum of 30%, although the compromise reached is not fully satisfactory and still too punitive for the sector. at this stage, however, parliament must assume its responsibilities under the treaties and adopt its opinion. it will then be for the council - although it will be very difficult to reopen a debate which has now been concluded - to consider, when the reform is formally launched, the possibility of incorporating some of the fundamental changes and improvements proposed by parliament. these include, for example, the maintenance of the intervention system until 2010; compensatory aid which varies according to production; the mandatory allocation of at least 50% of the restructuring premium to beet and chicory growers to compensate for the loss of income; the reformulation of the conditions for access to the restructuring scheme through the signing of an inter-branch agreement with beet and chicory growers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report. i consider the text to be considerably better than the compromise reached in the council, because it points the way to a necessary reform, which does not, however, penalise the agricultural sector and production drastically, especially in the most disadvantaged regions. the council's compromise raises our concern above all about the negative effects on the less favoured areas, even though the cuts in support have been reduced considerably, while the extension to four years certainly remains an unsustainable threshold. what i am asking for, in order to avoid dwelling on matters already dealt with by other colleagues, commissioner and council representatives, is to assess the understanding shown by the committee, mr daul, and by the whole committee, for the procedural change which led to the informal compromise, in order to allow for a more appropriate negotiation at the wto, but also to compensate for this understanding of the european parliament by accepting the improvements proposed by the text, which will certainly be approved by the house, in particular to allow for transitional state aid in the most disadvantaged regions and to adjust the compensation to farmers, especially from the restructuring fund.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on the sugar com has been described as a historic agreement, a courageous and bold decision in relation to a situation which has been crystallizing for too many years. it was said that action was needed today because it means that we can have the funds to facilitate this painful but absolutely necessary restructuring and to ensure compensation for farmers and sustainability in the sector in the long term. this new policy will promote trade and strengthen the eu's negotiating position at the wto meeting in hong kong next month. with this reform the union will certainly be an attractive market for developing countries to export their sugar to, although i personally believe that we will lose a great deal in terms of quality and consumer health guarantees. perhaps, madam commissioner, greater severity, caution and prudence were needed in this respect. finally, with this agreement, the european union will offer its acp partners financial assistance to adapt to the changes, but it will certainly end up simply protecting france and germany, as always. i would therefore like to express my deep appreciation for the work done by the rapporteur and the committee on agriculture, without going into the terms of the agreement which are now well known. i must point out once again how much the role of the european parliament has been underestimated, and too often bypassed by the council and the commission itself. in hoping that the amendments for improvement will be accepted, i would like to express my concern, however, because there has been no attempt to make a more courageous policy on the cap to guarantee the european union the energy independence it needs, by focusing on alternative or complementary energy sources to oil with energy produced from biomass, as professor prodi also argued. by exploiting these we can have revenues that far exceed the losses on sugar. are you aware of this, commissioner? is the commission aware of this? i think it is worthwhile for the european union to invest in the biomass exploitation chain, which is, incidentally, a technology that directly produces hydrogen. two tons of dry biomass, in fact, develop the heat of one ton of oil but while the potential price of biomass is 200 euros per ton, oil costs about 400 euros per ton. let me give you an example. in italy, savings of around eur 12 billion would be achieved; the commission has already proposed a budget of eur 120 billion for europe, which could be used to implement a policy which would best combine the objectives of reform with those of social justice, without sudden and excessive trauma, by taking active and positive action, rather than a welfare policy, on the environment, farmers and producers themselves, without, however, losing jobs.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the sugar reform was one of the most complex issues in community policy. the council, before reaching a political agreement, should have taken parliament's opinion into account in order to strengthen cooperation between the european institutions and to respond to the expectations and challenges that lie ahead. however, the result achieved is positive and moderately satisfactory. i believe that parliament's contribution to the drafting of the compromise reached was fundamental. the own-initiative report approved by this house last march provided a number of decisive indications for the elaboration of the new proposal. the emphasis placed by this house on the social impact of the reform, with the establishment of an industrial restructuring fund, is an essential element of our position which has been incorporated into the agreement. this is a painful reform, but it is inevitable if europe is to meet its international commitments and at the same time ensure that the sector has a sustainable, competitive and long-term future. the compromise reached is much more balanced than the commission's proposal of june and contains a number of positive measures: the possibility of maintaining a part of the coupled aid for those who will continue to produce; support measures for beet growers; the commission has also proposed that the regions affected by the decline in industry be given special attention and that a diversification fund be set up. in this way the reform avoids total abandonment of production and will have much less dramatic employment and social repercussions than feared.
member of the commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste management strategy is implemented in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the directive. so do not worry about that and the waste thematic strategy is indeed a step forward. we'll discuss that in due course. i would now like to welcome, on behalf of the commission, the contribution of the european parliament to the review of the european union's strategy for sustainable development. the excellent ferreira report contains many valuable proposals for revision, with particular attention to the environmental aspects of sustainable development. many of the proposals are reflected in the commission's communication. following the adoption of the commission communication on the sustainable development strategy, the commission wishes to work more closely with parliament and the council and, on the basis of this communication, to achieve the adoption of a european strategy for sustainable development in june. the ferreira report will be very useful in the consultations leading up to the european council in june. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. the commission's communication is the third and final stage of a detailed review process which has lasted over 18 months and involved many stakeholders from across europe. it is true that it took some time to revise but it was necessary to use careful discussions for such an important broad spectrum strategy. the commission presented three communications on the strategy in 2005: the guidelines in february, the draft declaration of principles on sustainable development adopted by the council in june and the revised strategy with targets and a more effective monitoring procedure on 13 december 2005. the ferreira report focuses mainly on the environmental aspects of sustainable development. these aspects are indeed very important, given that unsustainable environmental trends are some of the main threats to our current and future well-being. however, it should be stressed that the sustainable development strategy addresses all three dimensions of sustainable development, namely social, economic and environmental problems. by trying to suppress all unsustainable trends, it also seeks to maximize the possible synergies between these three dimensions. the wide range of challenges covered includes climate change and clean energy, natural resources, transport, public health, social exclusion, demography and migration, and global poverty. sustainable development addresses issues that really matter to citizens. they want prosperity, but they also want a clean environment, good health, social protection and justice. the new strategy proposes a long-term vision for a sustainable europe that goes well beyond 2010. sustainable development is a key objective of the union. both the lisbon strategy and the sustainable development strategy are geared towards achieving this goal in a rapidly changing world. the lisbon strategy and the strategy for sustainable development are mutually reinforcing. the new strategy addresses some of the weaknesses of the previous strategy, such as unclear priorities, lack of a clear monitoring mechanism; it confirms the main challenges, clarifies the objectives, reflects the often ambiguous objectives of the policies concerned and sets out a new and more rigorous monitoring mechanism. particular attention shall be paid to action and effective implementation in all policy areas and to the involvement of all stakeholders in the relevant process. we want to go beyond words and identify priorities for the next five years. the commission wishes to work with parliament and the council in the coming months, under the auspices of the austrian presidency, to agree a common strategy that will be widely supported by all the eu institutions and member states. a strategy agreed at european level is essential if we are to mobilise european society to make significant changes and to set the european union on a more sustainable path.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not the present report by mrs ferreira is a very comprehensive, sound and good and also critical policy paper on the main areas of environmental and social policy. thank you, mrs ferreira. but i am getting the impression from the discussion of this subject that we are basically following some very good principles. but when it comes to practical implementation, the reality is not so rosy. the commission's proposal is that new market instruments, such as eco-taxes and the internalisation of all costs, are needed. but if we recall the last meeting before christmas, the majority of this house, under pressure from the council and the transport lobby, decided the opposite, namely on the eurovignette. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i'm glad the tenor here is going in the opposite direction. the many fine principles of environmental and social policy must also be translated into concrete measures. the commission is to set medium and short-term objectives. the commission has also taken the view that the measures proposed by the member states are not sufficient to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. we need a real change in our patterns of production and consumption. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the eu has an ethical duty to remain the key player in global sustainability. let us not let the dynamics of capital guide us politicians!
on behalf of the uen group. we are confident that the presidency will honour its promises and restore the citizens' confidence in the union, which we have been talking about, a confidence in a europe which, as we know, needs a common foreign policy but also - and right away - the revival of an economic policy which is today culpably lacking in respect for the essential requirements of re-establishing competitiveness and not losing the social achievements which are the basis of the union's very existence. the union must find the strength and the will to bring its institutions and its citizens together. today the only thing we have in common - and only in 12 countries - is monetary policy, which is in fact decided by the central bank, without sufficient political comparisons with other institutions. we'll have to discuss that, too. we appreciate the austrian presidency's commitment to reopen the road to the treaty, and we hope that the necessary steps will be taken to make it more streamlined and workable, beyond utopias and dreams which are often at odds with the reality we have to face, but still with the capacity to dare. it is necessary to be able to predict the future in realistic terms and not just to be able to manage the present. the commitment to a more united europe, with more defined competences for each institution, more agile and closer to the citizens, must also see us united and determined to tackle three other emergencies: immigration, the energy plan and the environment. we need a common policy on immigration, both to deal with humanitarian realities and the danger of international terrorism, which is often transmitted through migration flows. only respect for the laws and constitutions of our countries by non-eu citizens, wherever they come from, is the basis for a civil and fruitful coexistence to achieve true integration. without energy there is no development, just as energy waste creates irreparable damage. energy cannot be used without safety, disposal and the protection of the environment as a common good and a condition for survival. the problems connected with climate change have not been actively addressed by the finance ministers of the member states to date, despite the numerous economic consequences of these changes. it is hoped that the ministers for finance and planning will also be working on this emergency under the austrian presidency, bearing in mind the cost in human lives, in housing, agriculture or landscape assets and in reconstruction, which the world has paid for the recent cataclysms. a common environmental policy is a necessity for the union at home and also a necessity for the union in relation to the rest of the world, because it is part of the duties and objectives which we also set ourselves during the work of the convention for the treaty. we appreciate the presidency's attention to trade and neighbourhood policy. the latter will have to ensure that the acquis communautaire is respected: i am referring to the recent inaccurate - if not incorrect and false - statements by a representative of the croatian government. as far as trade policy is concerned, we must remember to demand respect for human rights where they are not respected.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the austrian presidency, to which we wish the best, has many things to think about: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. we call on you to focus on the europe of the peoples and the europe of the regions. i have called for the city of trieste, a symbol of the europe of the ethnic groups and of civil coexistence between the various peoples, to be considered the capital of the europe of the regions. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to us in the present. we draw attention to the fact that their right to their property is still being trampled on despite the 1947 peace treaty protecting it. and i'm still here! chancellor schüssel, i will give you a dossier on this delicate and long-standing matter. we must defend the rights of the people and prevent europe from becoming the europe of the technocrats in brussels. the dossiers which have given rise to this scepticism are due to the dominance of the europe of the technocrats, of the banks, of the europe which wants turkey to join and the bolkestein directive to be adopted. we are in favour of a different europe, that is to say, the europe of the peoples and regions. and it is this deep feeling that the wise austria felix must make her interpreter.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european council in madrid has already made a number of important recommendations. firstly, protection of minorities: we south tyrolese have always been supported by vienna with a lot of understanding. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the former yugoslavia, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the former yugoslavia. what is happening in the carinthian town-hall dispute is grotesque. secondly, ratification of the alpine convention's transport protocol: if austria does not put an end to this old concern of the alpine countries, who will? thirdly, the obstacle to the brenner base tunnel: the construction of a high-speed railway through the alps is very worrying for many reasons: mixed traffic on the old and the newly planned route; a high-speed railway for passenger traffic through as many and as long tunnels; the alpine railway is a major source of transport for the local population. the commission has not yet decided whether to grant aid to the construction of the brenner base tunnel itself, without simultaneously completing the upstream sections. this new major project would be even less profitable than the eurotunnel under the english channel.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the austrian presidency is beginning at a difficult time for europe, even if the agreement on the financial perspective may represent the beginning of a new phase. the union is facing a strong internal attack and an equally dangerous attack from outside. the internal attack is being carried out by those who do not believe, or no longer believe, in the fundamental role that europe can and must play. they ride a crisis of credibility that has alienated too many citizens from institutions they consider distant and ruled by an all-powerful and incompetent bureaucracy. europeans want a political union which can solve their problems, but which states and local authorities cannot solve. that is why we must work for a more political europe, one which is more concerned with the interests of the people. a strong commitment to economic growth, which generates employment, is needed; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. a constitution is also needed to achieve these objectives, to simplify the legislative process and to guarantee the continuity of political action. we are convinced that we can make progress in this direction in the next six months, looking forward with confidence to 2007, when, in the happy coincidence between the german presidency and the 50th anniversary of the signing of the community treaties, positive choices for the future of europe can be made. the constitution is not dead: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the external attack is what terrorism is: we must defend ourselves by strengthening internal cooperation, by means of judicial and police initiatives but above all by political action which sees the union as the protagonist of peace in the middle east. the fight against terrorism is fought primarily in that part of the world. the guarantee of security for israel and the creation of a palestinian state are the key to the triumph of freedom and peace over violence and fundamentalism. mr chancellor, forza italia, together with the european people's party, shares the proposals of the austrian presidency to revive the role of europe and to bring the institutions of the union closer to the citizens. you can count on our help. i would like to thank you for your work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am comforted by your programme, first of all by the clarity of a phrase which you said at the beginning of your speech: "we need more europe". i think that this is not a trivial phrase, because i think it represents the central point of distinction between us at the moment. some people think that the only way out of this deadlock is to make a leap forward in integration and political europe, while others are under the illusion that we can have great plans, great objectives, by reducing european ambitions, resources and policies. this is a deception, a trick we have seen before, by those who actually hide other objectives and by those in the member states who do not want to take responsibility. the other important word, mr president, is the word 'coherence': if we want the europe you have spoken of, we need your help. in the coming weeks, help us as a parliament to change the financial perspective, which is the result of national selfishness and fear, and which is killing europe. it is a good thing that the constitutional process is being resumed, that we are aiming at greater integration, that we are moving quickly beyond the treaty of nice and that we are, within the possibilities offered by the treaties, moving forward in any case, with the countries that wish to do so, with the policies that are indispensable for the union. i speak of consistency because that is the most difficult concept to guarantee at the moment. but it is precisely the inconsistency and the rhetoric sometimes heard in this parliament, which is not followed by action, that are today the main causes of the disconnect between europe and its institutions and its citizens.
mr korhola, we cannot reopen the debate on items which are on the agenda for the vote. thank you, but i have to stop you.
the agenda shall include the vote. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
i cannot give you what you are asking, mr wurtz, simply because the balance of power on amendment no 1 was so different.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking under rule 168 of the rules of procedure on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe. i am not speaking as chairman of the committee responsible, although that role encourages me to formally request that the proposal for a directive be referred back to committee. i do so because it would have the same effect as a rejection, with the difference that we would keep in the hands of this parliament and this legislature the opportunity to express our views. otherwise we risk showing total submission. today - and this is my reason - we are not ready to vote. we are not in this because of our merits or because of the emotional climate in which we risk voting. we are not ready for the substance because the parliamentary consultations - i am doing my part to amend - on the proposal have remained too closely linked to the history of the first proposal rejected a few years ago. the present debate has not allowed us to take account of the changing world situation, which is seeing a revolution in ports, to deal with competition between ports or to deal with state aid in ports. in short, we are not prepared because we risk voting emotionally in a climate that risks putting us in two bad conditions: or show arrogance... (speaker is interrupted by the president)
mr costa, your request is very clear. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a statement on the situation in the community.
please let me finish. it is vital because of what happened the other day outside the chamber. we risk either being arrogant towards those who have demonstrated correctly or being, instead... (the speaker is interrupted by the president)
that concludes the voting.
in writing. the alde group believes that port services must be covered by a community legislative framework which takes account of their particular conditions. such a framework should allow fair access between the suppliers of services to port activities and would represent an essential asset for the development of the ports. it would also be an opportune moment to consider the role of the port authority or the operating methods of the port. in addition, a very clear clarification of the conditions of attribution of state aid must be carried out in order to guarantee transparent and fair competition between ports. in the absence of such a framework, the treaty would be applied on a case-by-case basis, which would lead to a situation where the disputes would be resolved in the courts – a de facto government by judges – and where the two legislative arms of the european union would be left aside. the european commission proposal was not sufficiently complete or clear to gain the support of the european parliament without substantial amendment. following the rejection of this proposal, and for all these reasons, alde urges the european commission to conduct a comprehensive consultation process with ... (abbreviated in accordance with rule 163(1) of the rules of procedure)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i deplore the manner in which a joint resolution has been drawn up. i find it unacceptable that the negotiations were conducted in guilty silence, without the involvement of the group i represent. of course, i know that all political groups are equal, but some are more equal than others. my group firmly believes that in a democracy there should be no room for abuse or discrimination on the grounds of sex, race or religion. however, i felt it was my duty to reject a resolution which is not my own and which contains paragraphs which, in my view, are not consistent with the aims of the document itself. i read that homosexuals should be fully recognized as victims of the nazi regime: we'd need more, of course! but does this mean that other persecutions were perhaps less severe? we have forgotten the cruelties suffered under the communist regimes and beyond. while i am firmly of the view that freedom of expression of one's sexuality must be guaranteed, i believe that it must always be in keeping with the values and principles which characterize our societies. the family has always been about a father and a mother, a boy and a girl, and i do not believe that the eu, by promoting campaigns against hypothetical discrimination, can claim the right to override national governments, just to satisfy the wishes of some not very noble lobbies. the european union cannot act as it did in the single market on the issues of values, culture and the family by inviting member states to legalise same-sex unions in the name of uniformity and false guarantee, and risking, on the contrary, undermining the system of values on which our millennial society is based.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the resolution and i must agree with mr tremaglia on this point, who has already said that in europe the 'coolies', or at least those who support them, are in the majority. however, all lovers of political correctness, including myself, should also think about linguistic correctness: "homophobia" is the opposite of "xenophobia". the european parliament does not accept xenophobes, it does not accept homophobes: what, then, is the citizen to be?
(the sitting was suspended at 1.20 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as has been so brilliantly said, the european story has been a football game played behind closed doors for 50 years. with the constitutional referendums in france and the netherlands, citizens who wanted to be allowed to be spectators in the stands went further and organized real field invasions. the european crisis today also lies in the fact that it is no longer possible to return to the closed doors, to the europe of treaties and elitist decisions, and that at the same time we do not know how to get citizens back on the podium to express their opinions through a correct applause. the reinvention of a cycle of participation and accountability, that is, of the union's accountability to the citizens, without the concerned, falsifying and misleading intermediaries of the member states, is a prerequisite for getting the european project back on track, whatever its new contents may be. but reporting what? the mistake to be avoided is to turn the pause for reflection into a pause for inaction. no plan d will succeed unless, in addition to the ds of debate, dialogue and democracy, there is also the d of delivery. delivery is the best context in which to redefine the text of the constitution, the best way to show how useful europe is. and that is why self-inflicted failures, such as the de facto abandonment today of the regulation of access to the market for port services, can also become symbolically dangerous. there are areas of recognised european competence for which the existing treaties already provide for qualified majority voting and interinstitutional co-decision - transport is one example - and areas for which subsidiarity must be correctly interpreted in reverse: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the union must increase its rate of delivery in these areas of competence, it must show the courage of its usefulness. today, the european union as an intelligent solution to the problems of war, even cold war, is no longer enough: we need a union that is up to the global challenges of the third millennium. we can think about what we are going to do tomorrow, but we must be careful that this is not the unacceptable reason for our inaction today. we would risk frustrating any thought, however intelligent.
the greens/efa group supports the duff-voggenhuber report. the european union needs a democratic constitution and cannot talk to nice. the debate on the constitution must be a european debate and the letter from the three presidents of the parliaments itself shows that the responsibility for the debate cannot be left to the national level and that a truly european body, such as parliament, is needed to conduct it. well, yes, we have to say it in a non-shy way, even drive it. the report lacks two elements, however, which we hope to be able to introduce by the vote in the house. in fact, mr corbett, i disagree with you: it is not true that the front of those who voted "yes" to the constitution was divided between those who now want to kill the text and those who want to keep it. it's not like that. the amendment we are going to put to the vote tomorrow explicitly states that one possibility - not theoretical but practical - could be to amend the text and that, if this were to happen, a new constitutional process would be necessary, which could also end in a referendum. the only proposal we have to make as a european parliament is to support the current text only. this is illusory and shortsighted and is what could really divide the pro-european front, that is to say the front which, with 500 votes, has won broad support for the constitution. i therefore believe that the two amendments tabled by the rapporteurs should be supported by a large majority in this parliament, because they simply state that it is possible to discuss various options. no one option is perhaps better than the other, but i think that all of them should be discussed, including the one which is so strangely dramatic at the moment, namely that we should reopen the debate with the citizens also on the constitution. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the risk of the european project being dismantled is real and we are experiencing it. to build or rebuild trust in citizens, we need vision, effective policies and tools, and among these are resources and institutions. i believe that as a parliament we must not abandon the perspective of the constitutional treaty and, in view of the debate on the current text, i believe that parliament must defend all that has been achieved with it. can the debate be taken any further? i don't think it's going to be easy, but frankly, i wouldn't rule out this path either. i would also like, as i have already said, to see this process carried out in close cooperation with the national parliaments, because in my view the debate on this subject has been conducted in an inadequate and incorrect manner, especially by european governments. i would like to thank the austrian presidency for finally bringing the debate to a partial conclusion. we hope that there will be greater coordination between the various institutions from now on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the impression that the european union and parliament do not miss the opportunity to censure and oppose, often with little objective support, the authorities and governments of states with which it would be in their best interest to maintain good relations. this should be done with russia, rather than wasting millions of european taxpayers' euros on dubious initiatives to support so-called 'democratic watchdog' organisations. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity. i do not think it is necessary to mention here some of the terrible crimes committed against the civilian population in chechnya and russia by those who claim to be fighting for the self-determination of the chechen people. i would like to say that we are trying to interfere and condemn and that we are often looking at situations in different parts of the world with double standards. the resolution on chechnya is yet another example of this, and i do not support, once again, resolutions which are hypocritical and which are contrary to the interests of stability on the south-eastern borders of the union, interests which must take into account the need... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, rapporteur and colleagues, i would first of all like to ask the commission to give this report serious consideration, which it did not do in this parliament's 2003 resolution. it contains a number of useful points for strengthening the neighbourhood policy, which is one of the most important challenges for europe. the only prospect of building peace and security around us is in fact given by the positive relations we will be able to build with our neighbours. this is not an easy task for two main reasons. the first is that we are surrounded by areas of great instability and conflict: the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process in the region, from chechnya to nagorno-karabakh, to transnistria, to afghanistan, to iraq and to the middle east. secondly, because the objective of this policy is not accession to the union, which makes it more difficult to influence both the internal reforms of the different countries and the relations between them and between them and the union. some of the countries currently involved in the neighbourhood policy are looking to the prospect of full european integration. the case of ukraine and moldova has already been mentioned by the rapporteur. while we must not rule out this prospect, we must be honest that it is not feasible at present, both because of the situation within the union and because of the progress these countries themselves still have to make. but all this adds to the validity of this policy. the aspect i have chosen to emphasize is the strengthening of the overall vision of the neighbourhood policy, even if it is directed at different areas of the east, the south-east, the south and very different countries. security, energy, immigration, environment and rights need a vision and political dialogue, as well as specific institutions to make progress together. alongside the action plans the commission is negotiating, this is the dimension that must be strengthened, also through specific policies, such as energy, which the commissioner rightly mentioned, and which the european parliament had already indicated in 2003 as the subject of attention in relations with neighbouring countries, attention which we are renewing today by calling for the preparation of a communication on the aspects of energy policy concerning foreign and neighbourhood policy. i therefore conclude with the initial appeal to the commission and to the commissioner, who has a very good relationship with us: the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vlasto's report on the implementation of the european charter for small enterprises - a report which we have welcomed - highlights the main obstacles to the development of small and mediumsized enterprises, particularly those of a fiscal, financial and bureaucratic nature, and calls on the commission to intervene with targeted community action because, as mrs vlasto has already said, small enterprises still feel like orphans. the report recommends simplifying tax systems, providing incentives for innovative enterprises, reducing red tape, especially in the creation phase - but not only - of small businesses, facilitating access to credit and exempting european subsidies from corporation tax. unfortunately, the report on the implementation of the charter drawn up by the european commission, which forms the basis of this report, is rather incomplete: for example, the data presented are heterogeneous and it is therefore difficult to compare situations that relate to different countries. we would have preferred a more structured, systematic and even critical report, with reference, for example, to progress in the spirit and culture of entrepreneurship. we call on the commission to act in synergy with the member states and especially with the trade organizations. in this connection, i would stress the importance of involving these organizations more closely, including through the setting up of permanent working groups. it is not necessary to emphasize the usefulness of the charter, but i think i should emphasize what parliament has repeatedly called for, namely that it should have a binding legal character. only then will we be sure that the member states will take this into account in their national policy-making. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this appears to be the last annual report on the implementation of the charter, because in future it will be included in the overall report on the lisbon strategy. i understand the logic of putting smes at the heart of the lisbon strategy, as commissioner verheugen says, but i also see the danger of reducing the value of the contribution of the charter, especially in relation to the new accession countries. finally, i would like to add that i find it difficult to understand why the commission claims to regard small businesses as the engine for the revival of the european economy, since the initiatives concerning them - as envisaged in the commission's document for the revival of the lisbon process - are rather limited. how can they be protagonists in this strategy? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not possible to promote the future of small businesses in this way, nor the future of europe.
the sme charter is a major step forward in defending the industrial sector which is the eu's quintessence, vitality and wealth. better access to european funds, a more streamlined administration, training, tax relief, are all essential tools for smes to continue to exist, to produce, to invest, to hire. the european union, however, once it has recognised the importance of this sector, must be careful to ensure that its policies are consistent: the recent debates on the registration of chemicals, or the patentability of software, to name a few, have sometimes raised doubts among our citizens about the eu's willingness to commit itself fully to defending smes. the last, unfortunate example is the now-strange debate on the textile sector and trade relations with the people's republic of china. the promotion and implementation of an sme charter will be a futile endeavour unless the eu, and in particular the european commission, finally raises its voice to demand firmly that the trade rules, which are already extremely unfavourable to small businesses, be respected and demand from international partners the best possible conditions for this fabric to continue to flourish.
member of the commission. mr president, it is a great honour to address you today on the middle east peace process. it is particularly timely, since i have just returned from a visit to gaza, the west bank and israel. i had three objectives for this trip: first, to lend support to democracy-building in the run-up to the palestinian elections. there is an important election observation mission there with your colleague, mrs de keyser; secondly, to underline the importance of european union financial support to the palestinian people, and, thirdly, to thus raise the visibility of a number of eu projects, notably in gaza. i spent a whole day in gaza. the security situation there is very complicated, it was not easy to go in but in the end it was a good day and i hope that the images brought to the palestinian people show how much we, the european union, are standing by them. it is a critical moment in the middle east. in both israel and the palestinian territories, there have been tremendous changes in the political landscape. i hope that these elections will bring about two leaderships that are ready and able to inject new vigour into this peace process. i made it clear to both israelis and palestinians that the commission will continue to offer its support to all those who seek peace by peaceful means. that means in particular that whatever the composition of the new palestinian government, there must be full respect for the principles enshrined in the interim association agreement and in the neighbourhood policy action plan that we agreed with the palestinian authority. these principles include respect for human rights and the rule of law, and thus a clear commitment to the roadmap. the palestinian authority has given the international community assurances that the elections will take place free from violence and intimidation and according to international standards; we can only hope that this will come true. president abbas has also made it clear that acceptance of the oslo accords and the roadmap forms the basis for participation in the future government. i think it was important that he gave such a clear message. acting prime minister olmert, whom i also saw, assured me that israel would facilitate the holding of these elections. his government took a difficult decision, in the context of an israeli pre-election campaign, to allow voting in east jerusalem. i welcomed that decision and i hope that this constructive spirit will help resolve any other remaining logistical and practical aspects of the elections. within the security constraints, it will be very important that israel does all it can to allow free movement for voters and candidates in the palestinian territories up to and including polling day. the european union is supporting the palestinian elections with the biggest election observation mission – 240 observers, including 50 of your colleagues. i visited the observation team led by mrs de keyser, and was most impressed by her dedication and professionalism and that of her team. i was also impressed to meet the chairman of the central election commission, dr hanna nasir. thanks to the sustained support of the european union – with which the commission has been involved since 2003 – the cec has established itself as one of the most credible and respected institutions in the palestinian territories. during my visit, i announced another eur 1.4 million to help with voter registration and polling activities, which brings our support for the election process to eur 18.5 million, which is a large amount of money to try to make these elections free and fair. one of the purposes of my visit to gaza was to raise the profile of the important work we are doing, providing urgent assistance to make palestinians’ ordinary lives more bearable. we are improving the health system, building schools and repairing roads, making improvements as regards solid waste, sewage waste and electricity grids. much of that will be to the benefit of the palestinian people and i hope they understand that it comes from the european union. i inaugurated some public works programmes and also announced the launch of four new energy and environment infrastructure projects in gaza worth eur 20 million. we are working with all possible speed, but the security situation is not making our work any easier. yet revitalising gaza’s economy is essential. what i saw only strengthened my conviction on that, and i will continue to press this point in the quartet – there will be a quartet meeting on 30 january in london, after the afghanistan conference – and with israel. we must continue to improve free movement of people and goods in and out of gaza. so, i have relaunched the procurement process for a eur 25 million cargo terminal at the airport. we visited the airport, and we know how important it is to open it up, not only to the region, but also to the world, to help facilitate palestinian trade once it has been reopened. we will only be able to go ahead with the project once there is an agreement between both sides. we therefore strongly support jim wolfensohn with the whole scope of the project that he has outlined since the opening of the rafah crossing. we will not be able to step up travel in and out of gaza without properly managed borders. i visited the rafah border crossing and i must say that general pistolesi and his team at the eu border assistance mission are doing an excellent job. i was moved to see that europeans are helping ordinary palestinians to move across the border with egypt for the first time in many years; this maintains the great dignity of the palestinian people. they are very happy. i spoke to two women who expressed the hope that things might slowly get better. therefore, we will provide a further eur 3 million package of support for the rafah border crossing. we are carrying out customs duties there, so it will provide scanning equipment as well as training for the palestinians. i made it clear to both my israeli and palestinian counterparts and interlocutors that the european union is contributing substantially to creating the conditions for a two-state solution. like everyone involved, we face major challenges, but we are in it for the long haul. we want to make a long term commitment. i clearly reiterated that. we have been a consistent and reliable partner for both sides. but to make progress, both sides must move. israel should take steps to implement the agreement brokered in november by the quartet special envoy jim wolfensohn on improving movement and access – the port, the airport, the link between gaza and the west bank and movement within the west bank. and the palestinian authority must take charge of law and order and public finances. it must take serious steps to relaunch its reform programme and respect its commitments under the interim association agreement and the european neighbourhood policy action plan. at this critical juncture, our message is very clear: there is a need for negotiations; all action threatening a two-state solution must cease; and imposing law and order and fighting terrorism are important. (applause)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for the information she has given us. i would also like to wish prime minister sharon and mrs livni well in the important positions they are taking in the israeli government. the situation in the middle east is constantly changing. in israel, vice-president olmert seems determined to continue the process initiated by prime minister sharon in the run-up to the elections on 28 march. in palestine, the upcoming elections, with their uncertain outcome, bring the great novelty of the hamas movement, which is running for the first time in national parliamentary elections. we are faced with a dynamic picture but one which is open to further regressions. the peace process, which is so fragile and which we can say has never started in the sense indicated by the road map, can be overwhelmed by the radicalisation of the situation in the whole area, starting with the difficult stabilization of iraq, the worrying orientations of the iranian leadership, the fragile situation in lebanon, the role of syria, as well as the turbulent internal situation in egypt. i would like to return to the palestinian elections, not to mention the most thorny issue, namely that of hamas, which, whatever the outcome of the elections, will have a significant institutional representation of the palestinians. i would avoid taking any action that would increase its support and influence, and i would try to insist that if a movement is to achieve the highest degree of political and institutional representation, it must accept the rules of the democratic game, starting with respect for international law and the rejection of violence. from this point of view, i am glad that the hamas candidates have signed the code of conduct, although there is still a general feeling of concern about the climate of violence in which the elections will take place, especially in gaza. i would like, however, to see greater emphasis placed on the pluralism that is being built up in the palestinian world, including new electoral lists with a secular orientation, as a testimony to the need for democracy, transparency and the fight against corruption. the state of israeli-palestinian relations also contributes to influencing the internal palestinian situation, and for this reason too israel should stop settlement activity in all territories and avoid actions that would undermine the settlement of the conflict, starting with east jerusalem, where the process of full annexation is under way. the agreement on the vote in east jerusalem is therefore, as you said, a positive one, although we are well aware of its limitations, having observed the presidential elections. however, its symbolic value remains very great. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the possibility of voting for the palestinians in the arab sector of jerusalem, but i consider the ban on propaganda for hamas to be a very serious mistake, which, in my view, parliament should formally condemn. the union's commitment to the palestinians should also be recalled, although it believes that this commitment should be extended in political terms at a time when the union should ask israel not only to improve the conditions of transit and access to the west bank and gaza but also to remove that odious barrier which is fragmenting the palestinian territory, dividing local communities and, in some cases, family units, and hindering, if not even ruining, so many small economies of the arab population. the european union must call on israel to block all new settlements in the territories still occupied and to eliminate all discrimination against palestinians living in enclaves in israeli territory. that is the commitment i ask parliament and the union to make.
i would like to thank mrs estrela for the excellent work she has done with this report, which is part of the process initiated by the lisbon strategy and which, in my view, has highlighted an element of extraordinary importance for men and women in general, but for women in particular: the ambitious goal of achieving full employment in europe by 2010. this objective was set because only by achieving this will europe be able to guarantee its citizens the social status which is part of its history, its culture and its greatest achievements. that is the first point i would like to make. the second is the target of full employment 70% of the employed in europe bearing in mind that in some countries in northern europe, as well as in the united states, this threshold has already been exceeded: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social dimension. the report we have proposed, drawn up by mrs estrela, and which the committee on women has voted on, makes available the contribution of women to the achievement of this objective. how did you do that? first of all by making use of that statistic that has changed the way we read data. i have greatly appreciated that for many countries the fact that we no longer have to speak of 'unemployment rate' - a rather manageable concept - but of 'employment rate' marks an important gap, just as it will be an important gap to have very timely and accurate statistics on all the activities in the world of work and on the role played by women in it. the employment figures are still worrying. of course, what has happened in europe over the last four years has not helped us achieve the lisbon objectives. there are certain factors which certainly affect employment: the pay gap, which certainly does not help to excite women unless they are forced to face the world of work; the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i believe, however, that this resolution represents an important contribution to the lisbon policies and that, together with the resources which are currently lacking, it will help us to achieve the objectives which have been set.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the very few men who have attended this debate and the even fewer who have spoken in the debate. it is simply proof that women are right to say that there is still much work to be done. so i really wanted to congratulate those who participated in the debate, because it deals with a subject that is not just the issue of women, it is the issue of the whole society, it is the issue of all actors in society. the commission intends to work on this problem in this context. i would also like to say that i share the main points that have been expressed in this house and that i have listened to with great attention. i do not agree with certain interventions that encourage the retention of stereotyped roles for women, even of a different age. it is not women's work that causes unemployment. this is an argument that is heard too often in certain circles and it is obviously against this type of argument that we must fight, because it prevents significant progress in some countries. what is the commission doing about this? i would like to remind you that the demands that have been made are essentially national policies. it is still up to the states to legislate on the major issues raised. i am of course aware that the commission has a role to play and i will explain in what areas it intends to intervene and how. the new integrated guidelines clearly reaffirm the need to mainstream gender in all employment policies and reaffirm the need to promote gender equality in all actions undertaken. the new employment strategy includes the target of 60% employment by 2010. it includes in the guidelines, inter alia, the elimination of gender gaps and the promotion of work-life balance. the commission has also made mainstreaming a fundamental principle of community action. i would remind you that it is enshrined as such in article 3 of the treaty establishing the european community. mainstreaming is implemented through a community framework strategy on equality between women and men. the strategy aims to establish a framework for action in which all community activities, including economic activities and policies as well as employment policy, can contribute to the objective of eliminating inequalities and promoting equality between women and men. the commission is currently preparing a roadmap for equality between men and women, which will take over from the framework strategy from 2007. like the commission, it will aim at the effective implementation of gender mainstreaming in all community policies, and in particular the lisbon strategy. i would like to say a word about the pay gap. the gender pay gap is a complex phenomenon, which is not just a result of discrimination. this is the result of several factors, such as the segregation of the labour market, the persistence of stereotypes, especially in education and training, and the difficulty of reconciling work and private life. the question is therefore to address all the underlying factors. it is worth emphasizing the particular attention we intend to give to reducing the pay gap in the employment strategy. two guidelines explicitly call for action by the member states and the social partners. it should also be noted that the austrian presidency has announced that it will be holding a conference on the pay gap at the end of may in brussels, and i think that this will be a rather exceptional opportunity to make further progress in this area. a word on how to study and analyse the changing position of women in the labour market from the point of view of knowledge of their rights and the role of men. the commission shall monitor equality policy on an ongoing basis and shall regularly carry out or arrange for the carrying out of analyses and studies on economic and legal aspects of equality. the annual report on equality between men and women, presented by the commission since 2004 at the spring summit of heads of state and government, is a very important document for monitoring the issue of gender equality in the european union. the report sets out the main developments in the respective situations of women and men in education, employment and social life. it identifies progress made and challenges still to be addressed. the commission is also analysing the member states' national reform programmes in the context of lisbon in this light, which will be an important contribution to the employment chapter of the annual monitoring report. how does the commission intend to improve the statistical methodology to take account of the gender dimension? the integration of the gender dimension is of course implemented in the statistical field. this requires a statistical methodology and the use of gender-sensitive statistics. as the draft resolution stresses, the availability of adequate, consistent and comparable statistical indicators is absolutely essential for monitoring policies. eurostat is actively collaborating with the national statistical institutes to develop a common methodology for collecting reliable and comparable data at european level. it is important that this data is collected at this level. the future gender institute should also make a significant contribution to improving the statistical monitoring of equality policy. i would like to remind you, however, because i think it is useful to state the facts, that this institute will be primarily a technical instrument and will in no way be a political body or a provider of financial resources. this is the commission's reply, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, which fully shares the concerns expressed in the report and once again congratulates the rapporteur on his excellent work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today.
the oral question to the commission on disability and development by mr john bowis, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation (o-0080/2005 b6-0345/2005) is on the agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed that the word 'hezbollah' be replaced by the words 'all lebanese and non-lebanese militias'.
in writing. mr president, the lack of attention paid to the historical and religious roots of the union, the insertion of the charter of fundamental rights into the treaty by a simple 'copy and paste' operation without any possibility of intervening on its content, the lack of or at least the lack of information that reached the citizens about the decisions that were being taken within the convention and an enlargement, which undoubtedly represents a value and an enrichment for the whole of europe, presented to the citizens without an effective media campaign explaining the reasons and the opportunities for all, are just some of the reasons that led to the interruption of the ratification process of a treaty that should have been constitutive of a union in which its own citizens, unfortunately, still today, find it difficult to recognize themselves. i am convinced that improvements to the constitutional treaty are necessary and that is why we hope that at the end of the period of reflection a new process can be started which will lead to a better and more comprehensible definition of the issues which are currently in dispute. we shall therefore vote in favour of this resolution in the hope that, in the short term, and with the involvement of all the community and national institutions and the representatives of civil society and academia, a new text will be drawn up, which may be simplified but which will have a common spirit and in which all citizens will be able to identify with one another.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be making a very simple, very brief and not very moving speech: i wanted to say that the green group would like to add its signature to the resolution on cuba.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as europeans we can only respect the vote freely cast in palestine and encourage the formation of a government which, as president abu mazen himself has said, chooses the path of negotiation, recognizes israel and renounces violence. this vote is also an expression of the suffering and humiliation of daily life under occupation, between checkpoints, walls and settlements, and at the same time it sounds like a severe criticism of the palestinian political class. the unilateral withdrawal from gaza itself, for obvious reasons, has weakened the role of president abu mazen. two imperatives therefore arise: the european union must not abandon the prospect of a negotiated peace and must ask the two parties to refrain from acts that undermine it. that is why i agree with the clear conditions you, the high representative, have set for the palestinians. but in the same spirit, i ask you: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has any objections to israel, which has never agreed to work within the framework of the road map? this debate is open in israeli society. on the other hand, hamas itself has demonstrated its ability to respect a negotiated truce for the whole year. i believe that israel should stop the colonization and avoid acts of annexation on east jerusalem. as regards financial aid, i agree with you completely: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the community is not worsened. it is in this spirit that i would ask you, high representative, the council and the commission, if you do not think that you should put pressure on the israeli authorities to stop blocking tax payments to the palestinians. since it is palestinian money, i think that this is an act which, at the present time, is adding fuel to the fire.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is reaping what it has sown: the billions poured into palestine, which were misused and whose management was not properly monitored, produced the hamas tsunami. a terrorist organisation has thus come to power, with a declared strategic aim - as confirmed by the many ambiguities with which the leaders of the organisation answered our questions during the mission - the creation of a state of sharia, with many salutations to peace, human rights, the rights of women and religious minorities. hamas has given a very clear answer, rejecting all the quartet's demands on the middle east. the socialist international, through mr schulz, has already spoken in favour of opening up to hamas, although it has never raised its voice against the scandalous use of aid paid to the palestinian authority. but the reality is that those who bet on a moderate opening up of hamas are handing palestine over to the fundamentalists once and for all, a fate which the palestinian people, made up of courageous, humble, intelligent and hardworking people, certainly do not deserve.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am grateful for the sensitivity and intelligence of the commission, of véronique de keyser, of edward mcmillan-scott and of all of us. i think, however, that the failure to publish the document on east jerusalem - and this is the subject on which the debate is actually taking place - and the failure to take appropriate action has actually helped hamas a little, because there is no doubt that certain truths cannot be kept quiet. i think hamas's was a trumpeted victory. much of the responsibility lies with the international community, which has not been able, since the signing of the oslo accords, to enforce and respect international law: has not implemented the principle of "two peoples, two states", nor has it ensured adequate support for mamhud abbas because there is not enough funding: it is the political support that the palestinians want and at the same time it has not put the necessary pressure on israel to prevent the growth of settlements and the annexation of territory. i believe that the international community, although it has the necessary power to exert pressure, has not been able to ensure that the negotiations are actually resumed. nevertheless, the palestinians have responded with a democratic process and participation, expressing their need for life, justice and peace. for me, as a woman, hamas' victory is a terrible fact: i think it is certainly a vote of protest against fatah, which has dominated palestinian society for many years and has failed to deliver on its promises, and against corruption, which is a rather demagogic issue. i believe that it is really up to the european commission and the international community to restart and keep the dialogue going, so that both hamas and israel can stop the violence and recognize in practice the principle of 'two peoples, two states'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must have a fundamental objective in building peace in the middle east and in combating terrorism, including through politics: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. in recent times, thanks to the action of sharon and abu mazen, important steps have been taken in this direction. is hamas's electoral success likely to set us back? is it in danger of turning palestine into a new theocratic and fundamentalist regime? of course, the words of mohammad zahar, hamas spokesman, who announces a new palestinian government without secularists, because "they are carriers of aids and homosexuality", do not give us much hope. nor do other statements about israel give us hope. europe has a duty to make its voice heard, with strong political initiatives to push hamas to follow the path already taken. europe will have to make it clear to the new government that if it thinks it is threatening the existence of israel, it will lose the funds allocated to palestine. if hamas chooses the path of intolerance, it will cause serious harm to its own people and will adversely affect the outcome of the elections in israel. we therefore support abu mazen and welcome his visit to the european parliament. we also defend the rights of christian palestinians: the european union is also committed to the protection of the rights of the palestinian people, and to the protection of the rights of the palestinian people. we are working with confidence so that arwan zaboun's thinking does not prevail, that negotiations with israel are haram, that is, prohibited by religion. the palestinian people, i am sure, do not think so.
i have to say, madam president, the palestinians have a new parliament, the result of elections unanimously recognized by the international community. we respect the outcome and support president abu mazen in his quest for a government that stands firmly for international law and against violence. it is therefore paradoxical to threaten today to turn the european financial tap on the autonomous authority. we risk the eu being replaced by aggressive states and groups and al qaeda recruiting unemployed palestinian soldiers and policemen. let us remember: on 13 june 1980, at the venice summit, the ec recognized the plo. the dialogue helped the former terrorist organisation to recognise israel's right to exist and to move towards the peace process. we are facing a similar challenge today, given the electoral victory of hamas. the united states, by the way, before the elections, made it clear that it was necessary to talk to hamas, even though it was on the list of terrorist organizations. the european parliament must now make its constructive contribution by inviting a delegation from the newly elected palestinian national assembly to brussels as soon as possible, because now is the time for confidence-building measures, not for mere gestures of intimidation.
europe, which was at first astonished by the result of the elections in palestine, must now acknowledge the legality of the consultation, the legitimacy of the new government, and indeed welcome the large participation of the palestinian citizens in the consultation. only by showing full confidence and continuing to cooperate can we expect the new government to make the necessary commitment to complete the road map. of course, we must be more careful, especially in view of the great tensions that have arisen in recent years between the ruling party and so-called western society, but i am sure that it is not by clenching our fists that these frictions will be eliminated. on the contrary, hamas must be given the opportunity to demonstrate that it can live up to the commitment, repeatedly stated by president abbas himself, to implement the road map, to respect existing agreements and obligations and to pursue a negotiated solution to the conflict with israel. cutting off funds to the palestinian authority is therefore not the answer. we must be firm in this, and we must strengthen the system of control, including through greater international cooperation, so that the resources are used exclusively for the economic, political and social development of palestinian society and not for the destruction of our own.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. this parliament has discussed the lack of respect for human rights in cuba on many, many occasions. "words, words, words" waiting for positive signals from a dying regime that has no intention of reversing course. in january 2005, the council granted the opening of negotiations in the hope of a different approach. all expectations were promptly disappointed: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the subject. we can't wait any longer. in this context, it is our clear obligation and duty as the european union to do more, faster and better. i am a reformist socialist and therefore dream of a society based on the values of freedom, participation, democracy and social equity. i am also the youngest member of this house and i have in my mind and heart the aspirations of my cuban peers, who want to be able to look to the future with optimism, dreaming of a country that is finally more open, more modern and more just.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the resolution on the adoption of management measures applicable to fisheries resources in the mediterranean, which we shall be voting on tomorrow in this house, has a strong economic, social and environmental significance. the current regulation, as has been mentioned, dates back to 1994 and was already considered obsolete at that time. how dare we continue to put fishermen on the hook for undermining the environmental sustainability of fishing, if the rules, mr president, are out of date and out of context? what if there is no follow-up to what the european parliament already voted for a year ago? the fisheries sector does not want discrimination: it is not a question of the european union being a single entity, but of the european union being close to and attentive to its own specific features. we are thinking of the great difference between the morphology and depth of the adriatic coast and the atlantic coast, the problem of multispecies fishing and the ageing problem of size control, when the mesh size and the size of the nets are already being respected. last but not least, we should bear in mind the different rules that apply to the mediterranean countries, which are not members of the european union and which, in the absence of balanced bilateral agreements, apply double standards to the same fisheries sector. the time to put an end to these obvious disparities has long passed. we therefore hope that this resolution will show the council, in whom we have great respect and confidence, that it is taking the initiative to give the signal it has been waiting for for a long time.
mr president, during the debate on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean, i already had the opportunity to say that the compromise reached by parliament and the commission - while not giving us too much enthusiasm - is undoubtedly an improvement on the initial proposal. this is not the time to recall the pros and cons of compromise. i would say that i regard it - at least, that is the hope - as a step towards a reasonable management of fisheries resources in the mediterranean, combined with a proper support for the precarious level of employment in the fisheries sector, involving thousands of families on the shores of the mare nostrum. the die is cast. there's no going back. i hope, therefore, that the council will not be inspired in its decisions by the prayers of the young st augustine to the almighty, recalled in his confessions: "my god, give me chastity but not now!" the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there is great anticipation among our fishermen.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the gradual liberalization of the postal sector, which has been taking place in recent years, has brought about a positive change, as it has encouraged operators to improve the quality and efficiency of the service and the production processes. the report by mr ferber on the application of the postal directive is balanced: it stresses the positive effects of the liberalization undertaken so far but also stresses the need to assess the social and employment consequences of a further stage in the completion of the internal market, taking into account national specificities. this next step will depend entirely on the results of the study by the european commission, which is to assess, for each member state, the impact of the completion of the market on the universal service. any anticipation of this study is therefore inappropriate. the role of parliament at this stage is to reiterate that the impact of liberalisation on the universal postal service must be assessed in the light of national differences and geographical, social and economic particularities and that policy choices on liberalisation must be made in full respect of the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. the postal service is an essential link for our citizens in some areas. maintaining current levels of universal service requires a gradual approach. for these reasons the italian delegation cannot support the amendment proposed by mr ferber, because it implicitly calls into question the need for universal service, which in my view remains an inalienable right and duty of european postal services.
the agenda calls for discussion of the commission communication on the european communication strategy white paper.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, honourable members, thank you for your valuable views on the white paper. first of all, action must follow. if we talk about reaching out to citizens we cannot cut down on the programmes where we actually do just that. on this point, we have exactly the same position as the european parliament as far as i understand. we want a budget which hopefully is increased and definitely not reduced. this is also our position in the ongoing budget negotiations. we will make our views absolutely clear on that. we certainly hold the same position on that issue. mr wiersma, i think you made a very valid point, because this is also about the participation of citizens. i have repeated that democracy is not just a spectator sport. it requires an engagement from citizens, but they also have to be able to acquire the basic knowledge about what is going on and how to exert influence. there is therefore also an obligation on us to make sure that there is access, for example, to civic education, where one can learn how it all works and how one can have a voice in this process. i think the services directive is a very good example of how simply telling the story does not help if the basis is not there, if the consultation has not been carried out. in the end we will have nobody advocating the proposal. i think that this is an example of where we really have to do the repair work. this is about engaging citizens. yesterday, one of my colleagues at a commission meeting said that when the commission consulted children about a proposal on children’s rights, the proposal which came back had been completely turned around. children have another order of priorities. we learned a lot from that consultation process. this is what it is all about. it is about the ethics of communication. it cannot be disconnected from the policy because communication can only be as good as its content. it has to be about the policy content, what we want to do to change the reality of things. however, we also have to clarify which rules and attitudes towards democracy and democratic procedure we adopt. we must also clarify how communication and the ethics of communication are an essential tool in helping us. that is what we are establishing here: the tools, framework and procedures that enable us to communicate, to have a two-way dialogue with citizens. that is what we are trying to build here. you are correct to ask about the budget. we are only asking for a few more staff to help during the whole consultation period. it is too early to say what we need for the concrete proposals because we are carrying out consultations about that. we have to come back on the specific proposals and action plans with proper impact assessments, budgets and concrete figures. for the moment, we are only setting the consultation period and putting that in place. when i heard mr bonde’s description, i wondered whether we had been reading the same document. i have to respond to the whole issue of a press agency and this is partly a language issue. we have never had any other idea than to upgrade the service that exists today within the directorate-general for communications. it is called ‘europe by satellite’. we have very few people to carry out the service that provides pictures and sound for radio and television all over europe. we do it in 20 languages. if we want to have better quality and more facts and figures and to better cover what happens in the council, parliament and the commission, then we will need more staff and equipment. as i said earlier, this is how we help regional television or radio stations that cannot afford to send correspondents to brussels. if we are serious about providing that inside, interinstitutional information, then we need the people to do it. in the end, we will need a highly professional person to decide what is most interesting from a journalistic point of view: should we send out a team to parliament today, or should it be in another place covering a different story? we already do that, but with very few resources. this does not conflict with the web-tv that parliament has already decided to invest in, which covers what happens inside the institution, but complements efforts to better communicate with citizens. this has been the idea from the outset. the brussels-based journalists are not happy. they see a risk of competition. i see very little competition in covering press conferences in 20 languages. i do not think this is a problem. however, everybody is trying to cover their territory. we have to be realistic. if we want the stories out there, at local and regional level and on radio and tv – which are the sources that most of our citizens use today to get information about what happens in the eu – then we need to invest in radio and tv. we are the only ones who can provide these pictures and sounds from inside the institutions. nobody will be competing with us on that. this is what we want to do with our proposal in the white paper. there was no vote on this. we have discussions and very rarely vote in the commission. during the whole five years of the prodi commission we held votes only about five or ten times. so there was no vote, but strong support for my white paper. i am glad to be able to tell you that. this is not only about voting. you are right in saying that we must tell the citizens that this is another political arena and that political discussion is crucial. we need to debate. we will have different ideological viewpoints on issues and the discussion will go on in the european arena. we have to help citizens to be able to follow and understand what goes on and to have a say. you will find some ideas on how to do that in our white paper. finally, i agree with mr hammerstein mintz. i hope we will see a pilot project where council meetings will become open. this is also a way to end the blame game, where the institutions blame each other. in the end it is the citizens who lose out, because they are unable to follow or judge what is going on and what their ministers say in the council. i agree that council meetings should be open and citizens should be able to follow them. we will contribute whatever we can to make that possible. it is also the commission’s position that openness and transparency are absolutely crucial in the context of improving communications.
the debate is closed. the written declaration (article 142)
the agenda includes, for a joint debate, the reports tabled by mr helmuth markov, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council directive on minimum standards for the application of council regulations (eec) no 3820/85 and (eec) no 3821/85 on social provisions relating to road transport and repealing directive 88/599/eec (pe-cons 3672/2/2005 c6 0417/2005 2003/0255 ((cod)) (a6-0005/2006), and on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council directive on the harmonisation of certain social provisions relating to road transport, amending regulations (eec) no 3821/85 and (ec) no 2135/98 and repealing regulation (eec) no 3835/98 (pe-cons 0420/06/2006) (pe-cons 0424/2006) (pe-cons 0420/06/2005).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr markov because i think he has done a very good job, also in terms of mediation. i do not agree with the previous speaker because i think that harmonization of social security and road safety is an important task for this parliament and our institutions. i do not always share this view, although i believe that when it comes to strengthening security in the interests of european citizens, a compromise must be found. i would just like to point out that, while the balance achieved by the directive is reasonably appreciable - a balance which i therefore generally agree with - there are also certain rigidities which could perhaps have been mitigated: i am referring in particular to those concerning working time and breaks, which, although they are shared, could have been more relaxed in terms of implementation. i have a further question, and i am addressing it to commissioner barrot, concerning the digital tachograph. i know, for example, that in my country, italy, it is difficult to find workshops that are able to initialise such instruments. i wonder if the same difficulties exist in other countries of the union. the italian ministry of production activities has granted a derogation to road hauliers in this respect as regards the certification of times and speeds, precisely because the instrument is not yet enabled. if the problem exists in other countries, i wonder how we can do something about it, otherwise we risk starting a process which will not be able to be implemented in the end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would simply like to point out that there are formal and substantive errors in the translation of the italian text. for example, the fourth line of paragraph 3 in the italian text reads 'clearly recognize the state of israel', whereas the english text refers to 'the right of the state of israel to exist'. i therefore ask that this correction be made, which i consider indispensable. the same applies to paragraph 10, which refers to 'concrete and positive recommendations', whereas the english text contains only 'concrete recommendations' and not 'positive recommendations'.
mr. president, i beg your pardon. it is true that the time for compromise has passed, but the liberal group's request has arrived at the wrong time. so we are discussing a compromise now only because we were not able to do so before.
mr president, i would never allow myself to invalidate a vote. i merely asked for the vote on mr swoboda's request to postpone this resolution to the next partsession.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that in recent days there have been several cases of missionaries being killed in burundi and the philippines. yesterday, in angola, an 80-year-old missionary was killed. of course, the most touching case was that of don andrea, an italian missionary killed in trebizond, turkey. i would like to pay tribute to this man and his sacrifice, also because he is taking part in a climate of tension between the islamic world and europe. in his name, i would like to call on those who want to break this cycle of hatred to support us, also because i am sure that there is a large majority of men and women of good will among both muslims and christians, as well as among atheists and secularists. i would therefore like to remind the house of mr andrea's message.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too agree with the rapporteur, the commissioner and many of my colleagues that it is appropriate to reform state aid to meet the challenges of the present time. the problem is finding the right way. i think the key is to reduce the number of state aids, to reward some of the areas that have been mentioned, such as innovation, research, the environment and business, and to ensure greater transparency. as mr sánchez presedo said a moment ago, it is also appropriate to link state aid to cohesion policy. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has rightly inserted a paragraph on preferential taxation. it is a tool that can be combined with cohesion measures and unlock entrepreneurial potential in some particularly disadvantaged areas. i hope that the commission and the commissioner will take account of this important statement by parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the motion for a resolution under consideration is a wise balance - as wise as our rapporteur is - between different opinions and it captures a profound need of the european union, which has been for too long at the mercy of low and uncompetitive growth. the prodi commission has always regarded state aid as an enemy of competition and the single market. it was an unfortunately partial and distorted view, which often undermined legitimate public support for strategic economic sectors such as research and innovation and the necessary cohesion policy. the barroso commission seems to breathe a different air, and the resolution adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs provides some guidelines from which the commission should not depart. none of us are competitive bombers. however, this essential value in a market economy has often been ideologised by bureaucrats and economists lacking political responsibility, to the extent that it has caused delays in the recovery of the competitiveness of entire regions of the european union in the real economy. as mr pittella has already said, we must turn the page today by reconciling competition and cohesion policies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to turnover taxes is a good example of this. i would therefore simply recommend to mrs kroes that she draw up a new proposal for a directive as soon as possible, taking account, if not exclusively, at least predominantly, of parliament's guidelines, since the crisis in which the union is struggling is all contained in the crisis of the council and its inability, for example, to overcome the asymmetrical liberalisations of the member states' markets, which are the grave of competition much more than some misguided state aid.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the committee on petitions i have followed the matter closely and met some of the signatories of the petition, including mr louloudakis, the author of the case against the hellenic republic which has come before the court of justice. i was seriously struck by the seriousness of the case. i agree with the rapporteur, mr cashman, whom i thank for the excellent and balanced work he has done, and i consider it intolerable what has happened in a european union which, in these very months and days, is trying to complete the single market through the free movement of goods, people and economic services. it is unacceptable that european citizens with legal documents, who are temporarily in a member state for tourism or work, should be treated as criminals and be accused of crimes for which there are no prerequisites. the signatories of the petition have had their property confiscated and have been fined several hundred thousand euros, which in some cases has seriously undermined the economic, physical and moral stability of the affected families. i therefore call on this house to pay greater attention to the respect of community law and its general principles of freedom and proportionality, through strict control of customs procedures. i also ask that the people affected be duly compensated for all the material and moral damage they have suffered unjustly so far. finally, i ask that we ensure that the power of control, which is legitimate in every country, is not abused more or less deliberately.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in principle, any initiative that reduces health risks and thus better protects people should be supported. since people spend a considerable part of their lives at work, it is logical that the various hazards at work should be carefully analysed and all hazards and stresses on health reduced as far as possible. i think it is extremely positive that there is an attempt to establish uniform minimum standards for the protection of the safety and health of workers throughout the eu. in the debate on this directive, i found it truly scandalous how everything was tried to avoid even the cost. it is also not serious in the present compromise, where it is stated in a recital, and i quote: this directive should not impose administrative, financial or legal constraints which impede the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises.' i do not understand why health care should cost nothing if the same rules apply to everyone, so that there is no unfair competition. then such services and products with increased health risks may well be a little more expensive. why not? why should the public pay for the costs that the economy imposes on public health services, just because they are negligent about certain risks? we can only speak of genuine competition if the same rules apply and if cost-effectiveness is a fundamental principle. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i want more economic honesty!
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the human rights and democracy clause has a long history in parliament and is based on the premise that civil and political rights, but also economic, social and cultural rights in the broad sense, must be at the heart of european union policy. the clause was introduced in the early 1990s with the lomé convention and was also applied to argentina in 1990. in its annual report, the european parliament calls each year for this clause to take on greater significance and urges the council to give parliament a greater role in monitoring its application. so far parliament's requests have not been satisfactorily answered. the clause is now included in more than 50 agreements and applied in more than 120 countries. in this connection, the importance of the cotonou agreement, signed with the acp countries in june 2000, which has strengthened the role of this clause, should be emphasised. the first point i would like to make is about the european parliament. the council must give its assent to an agreement before it enters into force, but it is not called upon to give its opinion on the opening of consultations or on the partial suspension of an agreement. this undermines its institutional and, more generally, political role. i therefore think it is important to stress that parliament is no longer prepared to give its opinion on new international agreements which do not contain a clause on human rights and democracy. parliament feels that it should be involved in defining the negotiating mandate for new agreements with third countries and, above all, in drawing up their political objectives and the promotion of human rights. parliament also asks to be involved in the decision-making process on the opening of consultations or the suspension of an agreement, or the suspension of any negative appropriate measures already imposed on a country. parliament also called for its involvement in the association council and the subcommittees on human rights and for its interparliamentary delegations to play a greater role in this respect by regularly including the democratic clause on the agenda of its meetings. another point i would like to make is the reciprocity between the european union and third countries, which has not been fully exploited so far. i also believe that the clause should be applied in relation to the infringement in question and not in relation to the country in question. it is also necessary to extend the clause to all new agreements between the european union and third countries - industrialized or developing - including sectoral agreements and trade, technical or financial aid, following the example of what has been achieved so far for the acp countries. it is necessary to provide for the systematic inclusion of human rights issues on the agenda of the association council. in this connection, it is felt that the head of the commission's external delegations in third countries should play a more important role and calls for the preparation of multiannual country-by-country strategy papers, which should be discussed regularly. it also provides for a structured dialogue between the association council and its subcommittee on human rights. the committee calls for the establishment of general subcommittees on human rights to monitor compliance with, and the application and implementation of, the democratic clause and to propose specific positive actions aimed at improving democracy and human rights. it is important to emphasise that the inclusion and consultation of representatives of parliaments and civil society organisations in these subcommittees is requested. there is another extremely important aspect. in this resolution we acknowledge that the application of the clause has so far been made more difficult by the requirement of unanimity in the council for the initiation of a consultation procedure. the committee therefore calls for the abolition of unanimity and, to this end, for the revision of article 300 (2) of the treaty establishing the european community, which limits the role of the european parliament in these cases. finally, while it is believed that the clause should apply to all countries and all agreements, it is also believed that agreements could be signed with the countries concerned by the new neighbourhood policy which go beyond the democratic clause, based on the sharing of common institutions for the promotion of democratic principles and human rights, following the example of the council of europe and regional agreements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking in place of mrs fiona hall, who is absent this morning because of an urgent appointment with commissioner mandelson. i would like to thank mr hall for the valuable work he has done on this resolution, as have the other shadow rapporteurs, and the rapporteur who, by a clever work of mediation and comparison, has brought about a text which is widely shared in this parliament. the aim of this resolution is, in my view, ambitious. firstly, it is ambitious in its method because, through the procedure under article 39, parliament takes an active role and asks the commission to present a legislative act which is important to fill a gap, to put that missing piece in the establishment of the legislative and legal framework, which allows to make a significant step forward towards the use of renewable energies, in particular for the heating and cooling sector. i think that everyone has an immediate reaction to the fact that 50 per cent of europe's energy needs are used for heating. this highlights the clear need for legislation, without which the sector cannot grow, which was also recognised by the commission in its report on energy efficiency. in addition, the sector must also be given certainty. without the certainty of possible growth there will be no investment, no research, in short, no concentration of resources and energies which will allow the sector to make a qualitative leap forward. secondly, parliament's objective is important and ambitious also in terms of setting the 2020 deadline. perhaps some may consider this term to be uncourageous and limited, whereas i believe we must regard it as a goal to be reached. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about a percentage above 20%, we hope that it will be a significant percentage, more than double the current share of renewable energy sources. in conclusion, i think that the commitment of parliament and also of some of my colleagues - i see that vittorio prodi is here - to the issue of biomass is clear. we are asking the commission and subsequently the member states to do serious and meaningful work in implementing the directive in order to reduce that energy dependence which could also have a strong impact on our future growth and development.
the amendment is already in the minutes, but i shall read it again. points out that, in its relations with third countries and in the context of promoting democratic principles and human rights through the democracy clause, the european union is called upon to pay special attention to implementing policies for gender equality and women's rights, while satisfying itself that the third-country authorities uphold the fundamental rights not to be arbitrarily arrested, tortured or executed and that their citizens have access to an impartial court of law as a priority; (the oral amendment was accepted)
in writing. after the partnership agreement between the acp countries and the european union, signed in cotonou and amended in luxembourg, the problem of the human rights and democracy clause in the union's agreements seemed to have been solved. the acceptance of the principle of the protection of human rights is a great step forward. however, there still appear to be gaps in the application of this principle. the question is not simple and is complicated by the fact that if one wanted to suspend the agreement signed for the violation of the human rights clause, one should avoid harming the population of the non-compliant state. in addition to the human rights clauses, there are similar requirements for the observance of basic democratic norms and respect for minority rights. i would mention the particular case of the negotiations with croatia, during which i have never had the feeling that the union was more concerned and more protective of the rights of the italian minority or of the julian-dalmatia exiles, perhaps justifying this attitude by claiming that these are bilateral issues. i would point out to the commission that the protection of minority rights must go beyond a bilateral relationship. it is a fundamental right, especially if it is not a trade agreement but an accession treaty. this problem has not been solved by this report either.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today in strasbourg a very large demonstration expressed, loudly and clearly, the need for another europe. this desire for another europe is the opposite of the bolkestein directive and cannot be satisfied even by a compromise which is far from incorporating this need. in fact, it creates a prevailing right to profit from commodified services, making the rules of trade, the gats, rather than rights and best practices, the fundamental law. who decides what is necessary, proportionate and non-discriminatory? this directive will end up creating a large number of legal disputes. this is compounded by the fact that the compromise does not exclude public services and citizens' services from the scope of the directive, while it is affected by the fact that professions and financial and insurance services, i.e. the strong powers, are excluded. the self-employed are being dumped and it is easy to see what will happen. we want the new, and we are offered the old. that is why we shall vote against this directive and this bad compromise.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are and remain opposed to the directive, even in its amended form. the amendments made do not completely eliminate the serious consequences which the directive may have in terms of social dumping and, above all, of weakening the role and powers of local and regional authorities. in addition, the generalised proposal to remove barriers to entry for foreign service providers risks reducing the quality of services provided to citizens, for example in terms of guaranteeing the supply of organic food to school canteens and the licensing of certain services itself. there is also a whole series of regulations which the states and local authorities have put in place to protect consumers and users and which we will have to abandon once and for all. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is enough to think of all the conflicts that will be submitted to the court of justice and thus to european jurisprudence, a veritable european super-law, which will trample on the law of the states and local and territorial regulations. that is why we are saying a firm no to this attempt to impose, however surreptitiously, the principle which is said to have been mitigated in the directive.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am sorry to say that this directive is likely to create a monster in the european parliament. unfortunately, the objective of breaking down the odious bureaucratic barriers which in fact stifle the free movement of services has largely failed. what remains of the directive is a mess, the result of the logic of compromise to the extreme, which brings together what cannot be put together, namely wild liberalization and the defence of the corporate privileges of certain categories and certain sectors. it should be remembered that the directive does not apply to all the strong sectors - telecommunications, banking and financial services, insurance and legal services - that is to say, all those sectors which have had the strength to remain outside the directive, whereas it will apply to all the weak sectors which need more social protection and which have less capacity to be represented and to exert pressure. i still want to look at the glass half full. i note that the principle of the country of origin has rightly been removed and we hope that all services of general interest will be excluded from the scope of application. i would like to emphasize two of our contributions to the text: the court of first instance has consistently held that the obligation imposed on the commission to submit a report to the european parliament on the state of implementation of the directive, in order to verify that it is being correctly applied and to ensure that the directive does not infringe the rules protecting workers' and consumers' rights, and the requirement to set up a national observatory in each member state to draw up an annual report and monitor the application of the directive, so that it does not infringe workers' rights and does not result in social dumping. the observatory must ensure that all health and safety precautions are applied to workers in the workplace. in conclusion, i would ask that the observatory be vigilant... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we are all absolutely convinced of the need to complete the internal market in services by eliminating barriers, overlapping and protectionist measures. this is a real and widespread problem. however, the initial choices proposed in the bolkestein directive were contradictory and in many ways ambiguous and wrong. the fundamental mistake was that we triggered opposite and negative perceptions. on the one hand, the impression that the revival of virtuous competition was essentially a license for social and democratic dumping. on the other hand, as a result of the more than legitimate resistance to these ambiguities, many countries, especially newcomers, feel that they want to consolidate or defend protectionist barriers and obstacles to the free movement of services. i believe that today, on the basis of the compromise texts presented, it is possible to correct these contradictions and these shortcomings in a substantial way. a well-founded criticism concerns certain exclusions and derogations in certain sectors, which have a real negative impact on the prospects for competitive growth in european production, economic and social systems, such as professional activities, banking, financial and insurance services and energy supplies. many say that the mountain is in danger of giving birth to the mouse. in reply to these objections, i would point out that it is preferable to take this risk than to give birth to a scorpion, since the poison deposited in the tail of this little animal would above all have polluted the balance of the european social model.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are faced with an important issue for the real completion of the internal market. i was rapporteur on the directive on the coordination of procedures for the award of public works contracts, public supply contracts and public service contracts, to which some 800 amendments were tabled, and on the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, to which some 600 amendments were tabled. in both cases i worked with colleagues harbour and gebhardt, as well as many others. the results were so widely shared that last may both parliament and the council voted unanimously in favour of the proposal, with only two member states abstaining. i would like to thank both of my colleagues again. the principles of the two directives are similar to those which are to guide the services directive and the aims are the same. unfortunately, the prodi commission proposal did not take account of the reasons and the content for which this parliament had to rewrite the two directives, just as we were forced to rewrite the directive in question today. we all want the markets to be open to labour as well as to goods and money, but we believe that this should be done once again by harmonizing national systems and not by upsetting everything. the revision clause to no more than five years allows for gradual transitions. we want this directive without ideological trauma and confrontation, and we therefore hope for a cautious approach with solutions of political good sense. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has already expressed a position which i share and, in the light of my own experience in this area, i do not appreciate those who, instead of seeking a compromise, want to reject the hypothesis and thus deny the treaties. i welcome the compromises reached and hope that this directive will also be supported by a large majority. finally, i would like to thank mrs gebhardt again for her work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive we are discussing will undoubtedly be remembered for its tortuous and difficult path. from the outset, the directive has been openly and strongly criticised. it is no coincidence that a major european trade union event has today also strongly indicated the need for the european labour market to have a services directive in europe which, in completing the internal market, does not undermine social cohesion. we have worked along this line in parliament, with the aim of contributing to european development and growth in an important sector such as services, without ever losing sight of the social dimension that europe must have and the need not to postpone the process of harmonization indefinitely. the amendments and compromise reached largely answer the questions raised and the claims made, both with regard to labour law and the so-called country of origin principle. however, there are still some problems to be solved, including services of general economic interest, which i hope will be resolved in the final vote on the basis of the amendments tabled. i think that the commission has done a good job so far, thanks in part to mrs gebhardt. we have not avoided the debate on the merits, but have helped to identify some possible solutions and we intend to be in the field after the vote on the first reading.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to explain the reasons why i and my delegation will be voting in favour of this directive. we are convinced that it represents the beginning of a process and a step forward in strengthening the idea of completing the internal market. from this point of view, it is a convinced vote. however, i would like to reflect on what has happened over the last year and a half, and especially over the last few weeks, in the political groups and this afternoon and this evening in this house. this shows - and i would like to make this very clear - that there is indeed a difference within the 25 member states. it is the difference between those who believe that growth and development can be achieved by taking risks and betting on the new, on innovation, on flexibility, on the possibility of working in a freer and more open market and, above all, in a market of almost 500 million citizens, and those who believe that the gains made so far can be better defended by remaining within. that was the real fight. i hope that, with the conclusion of this debate, the argument based on the division between old and new countries will also come to an end, because there was no such division. there has been another split, which has led to a directive which, in my view, is only a first step. i shall nevertheless vote for it with conviction, because i believe that even a small step forward is important.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is probably a no-brainer to say that the adoption of this directive is a political moment of great importance. however, if parliament adopts the directive by a large majority, the political signal will be even more important, as it would once again emphasize the role we play as mediators in the legislative process between the european bureaucracy and the individuals of the individual states. as mediators, we have an obligation to balance the demands of market liberalization with the rights of the weaker social groups. i believe that the compromise of the european people's party and the european socialist party is valid in the direction of liberalization of a sector which affects a very large part of our economy, a sector which the treaty defines as a fundamental freedom. we could certainly have done more on the road to liberalization, but you cannot have everything at once. the five-year review clause will make it possible to improve the text and to continue the process of liberalisation. on the economic side, we have set ourselves ambitious targets for growth and employment. i should like to comment on some of the amendments tabled, particularly amendments nos 13, 72, 73 and 86, which not only exclude services of general interest but leave it to the discretion of each member state to define the concepts and the public service obligations to which they are subject. amendment no 13 also excludes the obligation for member states to liberalize these services or to privatise existing public bodies and monopolies, such as lotteries. amendments nos 17 and 80 also propose the exclusion of gambling. i think we should focus on these amendments in the general debate.
member of the commission. mr president, we have had a lengthy and lively discussion. you certainly do not need caffeine to keep you alert during such a stimulating debate. i would like to thank all participants for their contributions representing various perspectives. we have heard all the arguments for and against this proposal. what is clear to me is that despite the divergences there is a strong body of opinion in support of a services directive, a common wish to arrive at a broad understanding of how we should go forward. i welcome that. it demonstrates the vital role that the european parliament can play in reconciling the many different opinions expressed in this house. on the basis of today’s debate, i feel confident that parliament can lead the way forward in building the consensus that this proposal needs if it is to be adopted. we owe a debt of gratitude to the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and group leaders for their constructive approach. i said that the commission will take full account of those amendments that find a broad consensus here. i believe we are close to that consensus, particularly with regard to the scope of the proposal and the freedom to provide services as set out in article 16. i was heartened to hear so many speakers say that they wanted a services directive with real added value. that is why we should keep any further sectoral exemptions from the scope to a minimum, and we need to pay particular attention to the wording of article 16. there can be no going back on treaty provisions or court jurisdiction. in reply to mr watson’s criticism of our efforts to help build bridges on article 16, it is a pity he did not check the source of the draft text that he found fault with. it did not come from my office, but then i am used to being accused of many things – good and bad – for which i have no responsibility. turning to the substance of today’s debate and the posting of workers, i have much sympathy for those who are concerned about what they see as unnecessary administrative burdens placed on workers who are posted to another member state. there is community law and court jurisprudence which must be respected. if you vote by a large majority to delete articles 24 and 25, then the commission will come forward quickly with guidance on that key initiative. it is important that the message that comes with this debate and the vote on thursday is one of europe moving forward in proposing a framework for a better services directive which will provide the incentives and confidence necessary for businesses, entrepreneurs and consumers to take full advantage of our internal market by investing in new opportunities and developing and buying new services which will create more jobs and growth.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the services directive, which will be voted on thursday in strasbourg, offers an opportunity to demonstrate to the 450 million european citizens that europe and, in particular, the european parliament, is listening to the people's demands and concerns and is trying to reconcile them with a strategy of growth and development which only harmonization and a real opening up of economic activities can bring about. the text which i hope will come out of this plenary will be a watered-down document with grey areas to be cleared up. however, in a diverse environment such as the european one, with new countries looking for opportunities and old countries trying to protect themselves, with small and large businesses and 25 different legislative systems, compromise is the only way forward. we must therefore welcome the commitment of all the political groups and actors concerned to reach an agreement. it is an important opportunity for europe to regain its confidence and to renew its commitment to economic growth without damaging our social model, a commitment which has unfortunately lost credibility in recent months. we need to grow and to revive our economy and the services directive is an important first instrument, provided that the welfare and rights of our workers are not put in question.
the agenda includes the commission's statement on the new financing mechanism for development under the millennium development goals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of the new socialist group and as a member of the committee on development. the figures and figures of poverty are crying out in this house for help. over a billion people worldwide live in extreme poverty, surviving on less than a dollar a day. millions of children continue to die each year from lack of proper health care, clean water, decent housing and adequate nutrition, while 20,000 people die every day from food-related causes. in the present conditions of technological development and agricultural production, the persistence of this situation is economically irrational, politically unacceptable and morally shameful. we are therefore looking with great interest, expectation and sincere hope to the work of the forthcoming paris conference, bearing in mind that not only more resources are needed, but also other types of resources, diversified and innovative and, if possible, predictable and stable. the great scandal is not that world hunger still exists, but that it persists despite the means available to the international community to eliminate it. it's really time to get down to business.
i have received five motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m.
mr president, i would like to remind members of certain fundamental mistakes made by many people during the iraq affair when assessing the intentions of saddam’s regime regarding weapons of mass destruction. intelligence, then and today, is largely inconclusive, if not misleading. it is based largely on inferences and is often lacking in hard data. the best intelligence agencies today do not have a single reliable source in iran capable of providing information on tehran’s intentions and capabilities. while it may not be perfect, the iaea is the only means of monitoring any nuclear programme in iran. between 1991 and 1998, and despite saddam’s best efforts from 1992 onwards, the iaea could not declare iraq free of weapons of mass destruction. so let us avoid making further costly mistakes based on confusing mistrust with well-founded suspicion. this is what warmongering politicians are trying to instil in our minds, and it is simply illogical. one of the lessons we should learn from the iraq nuclear case is very simple: it was the bombing of the osirak reactor in 1981 that led saddam to decide to have a serious nuclear programme. i can easily imagine what disasters could result from a so-called ‘surgical strike’ of this kind today. we have the time to negotiate, we have solid political and legal grounds to request that iran comply fully with the npt and there is a political and social opposition in iran that is far from toothless, but, if we want to create the conditions for security and stability in the middle east, we, as europeans, must make it clear to all sides that international rights and obligations are the same for everyone. this also means that our american friends must change the political paradigm with iran, acknowledging that their past approaches have been ineffective and that they need to adopt a more collaborative policy in order to safeguard everybody’s interests in this crucial part of the world. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must stop the enrichment of uranium, which is not sufficiently transparent. the behaviour of the iranian leadership towards the international atomic energy agency has not helped to build the necessary foundation of trust between iran and the international community. there are still strong doubts about iran's claims that it wants to develop nuclear energy exclusively for peaceful purposes. the recent actions of tehran, the breaking of the seals by the atomic energy agency and the suspension of the voluntary application of the additional protocol on safeguards are the exact opposite of the declarations of intent of the government of that country and of our attempts to find a negotiated solution. from all this we can conclude that iran is setting itself up internationally as the leading authority of the islamic revolt against the west and thus intends to assert its military superiority over other muslim nations. that is why it is strategic to attack israel and demonize it. iran feels invincible and unassailable in economic, industrial, financial and energy terms, and we therefore fear that any negotiation is doomed to failure. as a delegation of forza italia we therefore propose to invite the iranian foreign minister to brussels for a meeting with our eu-iran parliamentary delegation. we need to explain that it is not possible to establish a dialogue between our parliament and the iranian government unless the iranian government establishes a corresponding parliamentary delegation. the european union must therefore call for a constant confrontation with all iranian political forces, both majority and opposition, and express solidarity with israel for the continuing attacks it has suffered, while committing the european union to guaranteeing security in the middle east. we therefore call for a vote against ... (the president cut off the speaker)
what are we to do with the atomic mullahs? what steps should we take with the regime in tehran which is rapidly moving towards the building of nuclear weapons? the european union must take a firm stand so as not to make the situation in the middle east as in the eurasian continent explosive. the ayatollahs' atomic bomb is a powerful weapon of blackmail against the iranian people, a weapon that silences the most free and open voices. iranian society seems to be sinking into silence. we therefore need an initiative to help those in iran who are fighting for freedom, human rights and respect for all faiths and beliefs. the silence of the iranians is not voluntary surrender. it will be up to them to defuse the mullah bomb, the men and women of iran who care about the good of their land. iran is not islam, iran is not president ahmadinejad. the dialogue must therefore continue and be strengthened. we are not dealing with a clash of civilizations, but with a different attitude towards human rights, freedom and democracy. we must encourage a more attentive and respectful view of every fragment of humanity, because only in this way can hatred and violence be overcome.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
i note a protest which i join, although the relevant services inform me that other language versions are available. we are still prioritizing the need to vote. that concludes the voting.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been very active in this area. first of all, i should like to thank mr kindermann for his sensible and balanced report, for the great commitment and empathy with which he has tried to strike a balance and to produce a balanced text. we are in favour of the forestry strategy, madam commissioner, but we are against a market order and we say this with all clarity and precision. we are in favour of subsidiarity in the field of forestry policy and we are convinced that we should continue along this path. we should certainly pay much more attention to this sector, and if only 85% of the total forest area of the european union is managed, we must make a sincere effort to integrate that 15% into the economic cycle, and if, moreover, as mr kindermann has already indicated, only 60% of the increase is used, it is all the more important to point out that: only by exploiting can the protection of this forest be achieved. let me also say that the fairy tale that we have been told for decades about the dying forest in europe was really a fairy tale, a fairy tale that was more politically based than anything else. if there is an increase of 450 thousand hectares a year, the forest is certainly not dying but building up. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, to incorporate as much as possible into your work what will be binding in the text after tomorrow's vote, and i am pleased that you have already given your assurance at the end of your speech that you will do so.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking mrs mcguinness for the excellent work she has done on her report. in the new union it is important to ensure a strategic approach to intervention policies, to be translated into clear objectives, decisive actions and appropriate interventions, the results of which are objectively measurable. the identification of priority actions to be undertaken should not, however, result in rigid programming and limitation for the member states. on the contrary, it is important to allow member states a certain degree of flexibility, allowing them to orient their intervention choices according to the specific national, regional and local situation. it is of fundamental importance for rural development to give new impetus and competitiveness to agricultural production compared with that of other countries, where production costs are considerably lower, and in this context it is important to encourage accompanying measures to facilitate innovation, research and development. the emphasis on the issues of excellence and quality of agricultural products, in particular local and regional products, is consistent with the community's overall strategy. quality should be understood as product safety and consumer protection, but also as an added value to the competitiveness of enterprises and as an expression of local traditions and the cultural heritage of rural communities. it is enough to think of local craftsmanship, environmental protection, agricultural specialities and their traditional production techniques. these objectives must of course be coordinated with the need to promote access for young farmers and women to rural professions, transferring traditional knowledge and skills to them, and improving the quality of life in rural areas by promoting services and infrastructure. finally, the key feature of bringing the experience of leaders to the local governance system, by building on the best practices of previous programming, should be welcomed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleague the rapporteur on her excellent report, which i have appreciated and shared, among other things, in its attention to young farmers, micro-enterprises and the craft sector. the task facing the european union at a difficult time for the agricultural sector, made even more critical by health threats and uncertainty about the outcome of the wto negotiations, is to look first at young people and to ensure that they are not forced to leave the countryside. it is therefore essential to diversify economic activities, create new employment opportunities in rural areas, support local initiatives such as farmers' markets and focus on quality and niche products and, of course, on craftsmanship. it is also necessary, as the rapporteur, mrs attwooll, has pointed out very strongly, to ensure the sustainable use of water resources and to make a determined effort to invest adequately in training. finally, i agree with the bottom-up approach used by the commission in its proposal. rural development cannot ignore the specific characteristics of the various regions, the strategic orientations of local actors which determine the directions for each area, and even less the development model of urban centres, which are the real driving force of the entire regional economy.
mr president, i would just like to say that, in accordance with rules 165 and 171, my group is asking for a request to suspend the sitting for five to ten minutes to be put to the vote at the end of the vote.
mr president, in the revised version no 4 of amendment no 293, the terms 'social policy' and 'consumer protection' are deleted from paragraph 3, which allows the member state to impose requirements on the provision of services. this suppression is not innocent and it sends a clear political signal that we do not approve. we therefore ask, pursuant to rule 150 (5) of the rules of procedure, that these deleted terms be reinserted in the text.
mr president, before a revised amendment is tabled, the previous amendment must be withdrawn. this procedure was followed and a revised amendment was tabled. i therefore ask that the previous amendment be reinstated in accordance with rule 150 (5) of the rules of procedure.
mr president, what mr gebhardt said has nothing to do with what i asked. although there are many doubts in our group about the legitimacy of submitting a revision of an amendment after the deadline, we are nevertheless prepared to accept it. i have no doubt that mr gebhardt may have tabled the revised amendment. however, on behalf of my group, i would like to reiterate the previous amendment, in full compliance with the rules of procedure. mr president, if you wish to interpret the rules of procedure in the light of what the majority, namely mr gebhardt, has said, you are free to do so. that does not mean that i am not perfectly entitled to ask for the amendment to be put to the vote as i have adopted it, in accordance with the rules of procedure. i would like to make it clear, however, that we have no doubt that mr gebhardt was right to table a revised amendment.
mr president, i support the legal interpretation of mr frassoni. the president's reply referred to the first point, and i would urge the authors of the compromise not to allow political logic to prevail over the procedural logic of this parliament, because that would be completely inappropriate.
mr president, i also ask on behalf of my group that in paragraph 13 the word 'complaint' be replaced by the word 'condemnation', in view of the fact that the latter term is already used in paragraph 6 to judge the violence against the embassies. i think that the word 'condemnation' should be used all the more to judge violence against people.
mr president, i would like to say that we accept this request and that we would like to table another request, again on paragraph 13. in the english text, religious fanatics are spoken of, using the plural form. we ask that the singular be used instead, because in reality father santoro was killed by a single religious fanatic.
mr president, i would like to stress the positive nature of the common position reached by parliament, which gives the european citizens the signal of political unity and confidence they need. i would stress the positive impact that the amended article 31 will have in the very important field of tourist services. the aim is to create a large and harmonious incoming tourist market by carefully identifying the harmonization of the various tourist figures in the various countries. i therefore call on the commission to relaunch, after a thorough review, directive 320 of 1992, which has been ignored by many member states so far, in order to achieve the full implementation of the quality of service policy and, with it, the objective of sustainable european tourism.
in writing. i voted against the compromise reached on the bolkestein directive. i voted 'no' for reasons opposite to those of those on the left of this chamber who have maintained an ideological 'no', which is ultimately a 'no' to europe. the prodi commission proposal was not the result of dr stranamore, but of the treaty and the guidelines which emerged from lisbon. what's left standing? the free movement of goods does not apply to services of general interest and outside one. we'd miss it for financial services too. the legal services, the medical services, the audiovisual services for charity, the tax services, there is no question of that, the professions, notaries and lawyers and others should not be offended, and the roulette ball for gambling must also be national. finally, transport is also out, although the liberalization of funeral homes has remained, perhaps symbolically. as for the much-maligned country of origin clause, the text does away with its principle and innovative force, which in fact applies to many other economic sectors. today, corporate interests win, the fear of the polish plumber wins, the hypocrisy of those who say that there is always illegal immigrant work, but europe loses.
mr president, i did not vote for this resolution because i consider it extremely weak. in particular, i would like to point out that the reactions to the cartoons, whether they were offensive or not - which is for the courts to decide - did not start from scum alone, as happened in the case of the disasters in the french suburbs. in this case there have been official reactions, such as the withdrawal of ambassadors and the official boycott of danish products, which are european products. this shows, as the writer oriana fallaci has already pointed out several times, that there is no such thing as a tolerant islam, because a tolerant islam would have laughed at cartoons and ignored them, but it certainly would not have reacted in this way.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr letta, and all the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the excellent work they have done on the proposal for a regulation on this type of statistics. i would like to stress in particular the fact that the work of parliament has recognised the need to have the data required by this regulation available as soon as possible. it is not necessary to recall that our most direct competitors, the united states and japan, have had detailed data on the investments of their companies abroad for more than twenty years and, as a result, their governments and their economic players have a comparative advantage over europe, which is not negligible when designing their policies or their commercial strategies. the commission therefore considers it highly desirable that parliament and the council can reach agreement on this proposal for a regulation at first reading, so that the collection of this type of data can begin this year. i understand that both institutions are very close to an agreement and we want to see it as soon as possible. the regulation, as i have said, responds to a gap in community statistics which puts us at a disadvantage. at present, we only have data that some member states collect on a voluntary basis, either in the framework of structural economic statistics or in compiling their balance of payments data. but these data cannot be aggregated at the eu-25 level, because of the diversity of methodologies or the type of information compiled. it goes without saying that we all attach great importance to the lisbon strategy and its objectives of increasing growth and employment, of making the european union an attractive area for investment and business, and of completing the internal market. we are also in a year in which the importance of defending european interests in multilateral trade negotiations is particularly evident. the data which this regulation aims to obtain are of great use for all this. in short, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a type of statistics which is crucial to ensuring greater dynamism, vitality and competitiveness for european businesses and economic actors. in this connection, the commission considers that the amendments tabled and discussed by the honourable members, which are designed to speed up the start of the compilation of these data, provide an excellent basis for reaching a compromise at first reading. for the same reason, the commission does not share the need to maintain amendments concerning the role of parliament in the development of the regulation, because given the eminently technical nature of the regulation, such amendments would bring relatively little added value, but would almost certainly prevent an agreement with the council at first reading; i am referring, of course, to amendments nos 1, 2 and 9, which seek to extend to the field of the compilation of statistical data the procedures of the so-called lamfalussy process, concerning legislation on financial services. the honourable members, and in particular the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which is also responsible for the financial services directives, are in a privileged position to appreciate the differences between the two sectors. it is not necessary to recall here the different levels of development of the legislation on financial services and the reasons, very different from the case which brings us here today, why the commission considered it appropriate that, at some of these levels, parliament should have a greater scrutiny capacity than that granted to it by the existing rules on comitology. however, before i conclude, i would like to draw your attention to two factors in an attempt to persuade you to reconsider your position on these three amendments: 1, 2 and 9. first, account should be taken of the existing agreement between the institutions to set, by the codecision procedure, the final parameters concerning the compilation of data once the results of the pilot studies are known. parliament will thus have full power, together with the council, to exercise its legislative role in the essential aspects of the implementation of this regulation. secondly, i would like to recall the political will of the austrian presidency to reach a satisfactory agreement with parliament on the revision of the rules on comitology. as you know, there is a commitment in this area which will more equitably reflect the legitimate aspirations of parliament to play its full role as legislator. in these circumstances, mr president, and while i would of course reiterate the commission's constant readiness to keep parliament informed of the work of the various committees, i hope that your vote will facilitate an agreement on this regulation at first reading.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commission and commissioner almunia for their comments and for the valuable work that the two institutions have done during the preparatory phase of this debate. with this directive, which is very important despite its apparent technical nature, we want to regulate two types of data on foreign subsidiaries, namely inward statistics, which cover all enterprises and all sectors under foreign control, and outward statistics, which relate to companies abroad controlled by a company established in the european union. as commissioner almunia said, the commission is proposing to establish a mandatory reference framework for the compilation of community statistics on the structure and activities of foreign subsidiaries. the commission proposal provides for two different models for the collection of inward and outward data. the model for inwards fats is based on the regulation of structural business statistics, while for outwards fats the model used for foreign direct investment in the regulation for balance of payments statistics is referred to. while inwards would be mostly mandatory, the provisions for outwards provide for a voluntary experimental phase through pilot studies to establish the cost-effectiveness of data collection. the critical element of this directive is that, as commissioner almunia has just mentioned, the united states and japan have had this kind of information for over 20 years, at a level of detail even higher than that which the directive seeks to introduce. the commission's proposal provides for pilot studies and comitology procedures with long transition periods. this risks leaving european policymakers without adequate data for too long, while american and japanese counterparts can already have better information on the strategies and economic trends of their own companies and transnational corporations, including on the outward. for all these reasons, we believe that the commission's proposal should be supported, but with certain requirements. first, the provisions of these regulations must not constitute an excessive bureaucratic and financial burden for the undertakings concerned. secondly, the time taken for the regulation to be implemented and, consequently, for the data to be available should not be too long, so that european policy makers can be placed in the same position as their american and japanese counterparts as soon as possible. the comitology procedure, which has been widely discussed in our committee as an alternative to the legislative procedure for the implementation of the outward fats, must be evaluated very carefully and in the awareness that the objective of the short-term availability of homogeneous data will have to be pursued with every effort. finally, the european central bank and other institutions which have a particular interest in the availability of adequate statistical information should be involved in the definition of common standards. our discussion in the run-up to today's debate was an open confrontation between parliament, the commission and the council. we have always tried to reach a compromise which would lead to the adoption of the directive at first reading as soon as possible. however, the impression that there was no will in the council to bring this text to a positive conclusion at first reading leads us to consider the discussions which have taken place in committee on the subject of comitology as a matter which parliament must bear in mind, particularly when voting on the amendments on comitology. for all these reasons, i think it is useful and important to recommend to this house that it should vote in favour of the directive. this is an important vote because it makes our european system on the international trade side more sensitive to competitiveness data. from the outset we have aimed at the adoption at first reading of this directive, which, beyond its apparent technicality, has a very important content which leads me to suggest to this house that it should be voted on as soon as possible.
the next item is the report by mr benoit hamon, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the strategic review of the international monetary fund (2005/2121 (ini)) (a6-0022/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the march partsession. the written declaration (article 142)
the agenda includes six motions for resolutions on cultural heritage in azerbaijan.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the situation in sri lanka.
the debate is closed. as all the motions for resolutions on this subject have been withdrawn, there will be no vote.
the agenda includes five motions for resolutions on guantánamo.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the votes: see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was suspended at 5.00 p.m.)
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. i think we should support the initiatives taken by the commission on women's rights. i share the idea of launching an information, educational campaign to combat the phenomenon of sexual exploitation. initiatives need to be taken at european level, including through international instruments such as the council of europe convention, but it is equally important to make a clear distinction between the world of forced prostitution and those who practice it as a matter of free choice. there are associations of prostitutes, and one of them has come to parliament to ask for recognition of their profession, starting with a charter of rights and a declaration of principles. it is politically necessary to determine whether a woman who is not forced into prostitution is free to do so or not. recognising voluntary prostitution and the status of a profession means recognising a set of rights and duties; the right to live in freedom and security, to work free from slavery, to marry, to name a few, is not allowed in some countries. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to congratulate mr hutchinson on his excellent work. the need for effective policies to combat tax dumping between member states is clear. the choice to relocate production within the union, if motivated by the greater competitiveness of one territory over another, can nevertheless bring benefits to the european economy as a whole. the phenomenon of relocations outside the european union, which are generally due to rather permissive labour laws in many third countries, is different and worrisome. it is clear that the european social model is expensive and that the competitiveness of our enterprises is the main factor in its costs, but that is not the reason why we can accept downward compromises. first of all, european production must be encouraged in terms of quality and specialization. secondly, measures must be introduced to mitigate the social costs of relocation by providing training and retraining for workers in regions affected by restructuring. we have already discussed this subject in the past when this parliament discussed the steel crisis, with particular reference to the case of thyssen krupp in terni, italy. i agree with the application of severe sanctions to undertakings which receive public, european or national aid and decide to relocate part of their production outside the union. in conclusion, mr president, i would just like to take up the proposal for the establishment of a european trade mark for goods produced entirely within the territory of the union: i think that is an important incentive for production within the european union.
the objectives of regional development policy must always be borne in mind: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. within the union, the free movement of goods, capital and persons is enshrined in the treaty establishing the european community and it is therefore difficult to support an absolute prohibition on choosing the place of establishment of one's place of business, especially since such a prohibition would result in a negative immobilisation for the european economy. economic and social cohesion policy is essential to safeguarding citizens' support for and attachment to the eu. it is based on the harmonious and supportive development of all the regions of europe. it would therefore be contrary to this objective to make up for the economic and social backwardness of certain regions by promoting methods which would result in a development deficit in other regions of europe. such delocalisation processes do not correspond to an overall increase in investment on a european scale, but only to a reallocation of investment explained by a temporary cost advantage. this is why companies based in one member state which decide to relocate their activities to another member state should not be able to benefit from structural fund assistance.
author of the book. thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen. water must be a common good, a human right guaranteed to all men and women on all continents. we want these words of commitment to be solemnly adopted by this parliament and to be used at the world conference on water in mexico city in the coming days. these are urgent and necessary words in the face of a tragic reality, which sees billions of people deprived of their right to water, that is to say, to life, and millions of people dying and falling ill as a result. wars and conflicts are fought over water, and the very availability of this vital resource is compromised by bad policies that have reduced it enormously, altering its life cycle; there are even those who want to privatize water, treat it as a commodity that is only given to those who can pay. it would be like privatizing the air and letting only those with money breathe it. it is time for a number of demanding choices, which must see europe as the protagonist of just policies and not as a party to the assault of the multinationals. in johannesburg, they did not want to write that water is a right, but only a need. in mexico city, at a conference which we would like to see run more directly by the un rather than by other bodies, this right must be solemnly enshrined: the right to water is denied the right to life, in many continents, starting with africa. let us not disappoint them, but let us ensure that a voice of hope and a concrete commitment comes from this parliament!
i would like to add to what mr papadimoulis said about the additions made by the environment committee to the commission's proposal on the principle of extending the scope of the regulation to marine pollution that there are no other specific instruments for dealing with the consequences of marine disasters. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one. the commission was asked to ensure that, within the various community mechanisms and instruments in the field of civil protection, greater attention is paid to the most remote and peripheral regions because of their geographical, territorial and socio-economic peculiarities, and to integrate civil protection measures into teaching modules and communication and information campaigns in order to raise awareness of the need to prevent, prepare for and respond rapidly to major accidents and to ensure the participation of civil society in preventive and response action. in other words, we must focus on young people, on education in schools. a final important amendment was approved by the committee on the environment, namely that aimed at enhancing both organised group and individual volunteering, as they can provide vital services in the absence of emergency workers whose arrival may be delayed following a major disaster. i believe that with these proposals the regulation takes a much broader view of the management of major emergencies.
the 2006-2007 session of the european parliament is hereby opened.
the agenda includes the report by mr reino paasilinna, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on an information society for growth and jobs (2005/2167 (ini)) (a6-0036/2006).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is a major step forward in the understanding of the concept of the 'information society'. i would like to draw particular attention to one aspect of the report, namely that it accurately indicates the very close link between the impressive technological developments under way and the fate of democracy. it was right to show the effects of the information society on growth and employment and to outline the benefits, the problems and also the remedies. but the implications are much broader: the media have already become decisive in shaping the thoughts and behaviors of billions of individuals. their role is therefore socially relevant, often decisive. their ownership cannot be separated from responsibility to society, their effects cannot be seen in market terms alone. all our values, our rights, even the fate of peace and the survival of mankind are at stake in this issue. we are not only faced with a series of economic and technical problems, but also with fundamental rights such as the right of everyone to be informed, to express himself and to communicate, without forgetting that the information society will increasingly be a society of moving images. this will be the dominant language of the future. those who cannot decipher the images and defend themselves against their manipulation will not be free: helping our children learn this language will be the only way to make them conscious citizens.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the information society must be open to all, it must be an element of democracy which takes account of cultural diversity and which encourages the participation of citizens as protagonists and not as mere consumers. the issue of closing the digital divide, a problem of balanced development, but above all of social justice, must be tackled. the role of public investment in safeguarding the open nature of the fta is essential in order to ensure the development of technical and cultural means enabling all citizens to benefit from an ever-increasing volume of communication and information services. in order to achieve good governance and guarantee all europeans full citizenship, a european charter of the rights of consumers in the digital world, the so-called e-rights, with shared principles and guidelines, which define the framework of citizens' rights, must be adopted. the charter must include in particular the right to free and open access, and therefore non-discriminatory, to transparent, pluralistic and comprehensive information in a secure environment through telecommunications services and platforms based on open and interoperable standards, for example the portability of e-mail addresses. with the i-2010 directive, europe has a key role to play in ensuring that the information society is accessible to all.
member of the commission. mr president, allow me to thank the rapporteurs for their opinions and all the members who have been involved in this extremely important area, not only for economic and industrial development but also for the well-being of our societies. i should like to begin by briefly answering mr paasilinna's question on information. there are two levels of information, the first being benchmarking, which is carried out on an annual basis. i am aware, mr rapporteur, that we can improve this benchmarking and these figures. i too am sometimes frustrated that we do not have figures that better reflect the importance of the sector and its evolution. one of the difficulties is that it is not a stable sector but one that moves fast. so we would have to review our information practically every two or three months. second level: what information is given to consumers? in this respect, it is extremely important that we take matters into our own hands. i have just launched an investigation and consultation on rfid because i believe that we need to develop the economy and the rfid industry, but also to discuss with consumer associations, with privacy protection agencies, the influence of new technologies on the citizen and, perhaps, the measures that need to be taken to better protect the citizen. efforts are therefore being made. i am counting on the european parliament to be the spokesman for these discussions on the citizenship sector. let me give a brief answer to some of the questions that have been asked. almost all speakers spoke, and rightly so, about safety on the internet. the internet is a wonderful thing, but like all great things, it also has its drawbacks, and misuse of the internet is one of them. that is why we will be presenting a communication on spam, spyware and malware in the coming weeks. this was the subject of the 'trust in the net' seminar held in february this year under the austrian presidency. that's why we're working with child and women's rights organizations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. in this context, we will present in 2007 the european security research programme in the field of research, covering all aspects of cryptography, biometrics, smart cards, authentication, rfid, etc., for which security issues must always be kept in mind. a second recurring theme, which was rightly mentioned by all the speakers, is the digital divide and regional development. indeed, if competition is allowed, it will of course develop where there is a return on investment, that is, in our cities. the policy must therefore give new technologies the opportunity to develop outside our cities as well. it is in this context that the commission will present an initiative at the end of this month, which will also cover regional and rural development. a third theme, which was raised by some members, is the level of skills and above all the need for specific measures for women. as far as skills are concerned, we already know that in the field of technology, economic development is currently running a 15% deficit due to a lack of technicians and engineers. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we reform our teaching in this area. we also have the statistics on the lack of women in this field. i have to admit, the statistics are not as bad as i initially thought. women are better than most people think. so we must not get too excited but we must act. so we are going to set out, with the commissioner responsible for education and the commissioner responsible for research, a roadmap for better integrating women into both science learning and research. we also encourage women researchers to become more involved in technological research. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. in 2007 we will also present a european guide to best practice in this area. i fully support the call for budget support for ict research. you should know, ladies and gentlemen, that today's technological successes - gsm, for example, which has become a world standard based on european research - are based on research from the 1980s. if we are to be at the forefront of global technological progress tomorrow, it is the research of today that will produce the results of tomorrow. so if we do not invest in research, we can be sure that tomorrow there will be no economic sector that will develop in this area. so if i ask for sufficient funds for technological research, it is not to please myself, but to develop the economy and, therefore, to create jobs tomorrow also, here in europe, and to prevent relocations from occurring outside europe. some of you have mentioned the regulatory framework. i will be very clear on this: the telecom regulation - a very positive example, by the way, which is now being considered as a basis for reforming the market and the regulatory framework in the fields of transport and energy - is not designed to regulate, it is designed to deregulate, to open up markets to competition. our statistics tell us one thing: where markets are open to competition, prices fall, and citizens' uptake of technology is much higher. on the other hand, where markets are closed, where there are monopolies, take-up is non-existent because there is no supply on the market and because prices are too high. look at the statistics, on broadband, broadband, for example, and you will see that only competition is making this market work, but - and i repeat what i said before - competition in markets that can be competitive. we need to make adjustments to markets which are too expensive for the industrial economy, that is to say, regional policy which must be concerned with regions a little further away from urban centres. however, the regulatory framework is under review. i have started the first discussions and will present to you before the summer a review of the markets concerned and a first draft of the reform of the telecom package. consultations on this will begin in the second half of the year and at the end of the year i will present you with a new telecom package, which will be very simplified compared to the telecom package that is on the table or in force. but let me be very clear on this: this new package will not allow new monopolies to re-establish themselves. i am very firm on this point. we also talked about homelessness. i think you know that i said last summer that i would no longer tolerate excessive prices; you may remember that i presented last october a price comparison on a website of the web i am working on a comparison of the price developments since october. frustrated with the price of these things, i announced a settlement to lower them. it's a miracle since i announced the settlement, international roaming prices have been falling, which is a good thing. in a few weeks i will tell you what i am going to do about it and whether we should regulate or not. i think that there will have to be regulation, so i will submit to you a regulation so that international roaming prices are returned to real prices and are not based on fancy prices that burden household budgets.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. the written declaration (article 142)
the agenda includes the report by mr jean louis cottigny, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on restructuring and employment (2005/2188 (ini)) (a6-0031/2006).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. we are also facing a crossroads in this chamber today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. again, as a reformer, i believe the right path is in the middle: it is utopian to prevent restructuring. what the eu can and must do is to prevent them by incentives for small businesses, to make them as competitive as possible at international level, and by disincentives against so-called subsidy tourism. we must also set up a strategy to promote by all means the full and satisfactory integration of our human resources in order to combat unemployment and prevent the best minds from fleeing outside our borders. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to strike.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i join my colleague lissy gröner in supporting a vote on this commission proposal which responds to a demand felt in all european countries, not just by women. in fact, as both the commissioner and mrs gröner have already explained, the question has been discussed for a long time: the idea of creating such an institution was first mooted more than a decade ago by the then swedish minister for equal opportunities. the work continued for five years, the debate was deepened, and in 2000 the nice european council recognised the need for a tool to stimulate the exchange of experience and to share information on equality between men and women. the european commission has drawn up a feasibility study, presented it and a year ago, on 8 march, this decision was taken. this study has already been mentioned as a joint and very important work of our parliamentary committee, which has intervened so that the institute becomes what we all wanted: the commission has also proposed a new approach to the problem of gender equality in the european union, which is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. some people might ask: but is a gender institute really necessary? i think so, and the data that's right in front of us confirms that. for example, the european directive on equal pay was adopted 30 years ago in 1975, but we still have an average of 15% inequality in europe today, and in some countries it is close to 30%. the following employment data are also included: lisbon will only be achieved if more and more women have access to the labour market. not to mention the problems of under-reporting and violence. i think there is a need for this kind of institution, we still need a gender institute for women, for women. the structure will be very close-knit, with nine members on the board of directors, plus one representative from the commission, and one representative from each country on the advisory board. i conclude by saying that the opposing positions are of two types: some people want to incorporate it all into the human rights institute, the establishment of which is already planned in vienna. if i wanted to help commissioner frattini i would say yes, but i don't think women need that. some say it is too expensive, but then i say that in europe we have four institutes that deal with work and cost 66 million euros a year; this one will only cost eight.
the oral question by mr enrique barón crespo, on behalf of the committee on international trade, to the commission on the situation of the european footwear industry one year after its liberalisation (o-0005/2006 - b6-0007/2006) is therefore on the agenda.
the european union and the united states have been leading the negotiations for china's accession to the wto for ten years. now beijing has learned its lesson and is not hesitating to apply the rules of the world trade organization with the ruthless resolve of its masters. anti-dumping measures do not appear to comply with community legislation and case law and may have a very negative impact on the whole system of community trade policy and on consumers: the wto's liberal doctrines must therefore be questioned in their entirety. we believe it is important that the european union should support an economic model which places the respect of social clauses and workers' rights at the centre of its work in every part of the world. europe must do more in the various international fora to promote decent work. europe must develop legislation to promote trade marks to ensure geographical origin and respect for social and environmental rules. if we do not question the liberalism of the wto, then after textiles and shoes there will be another long list of products.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the liberalisation of the footwear market since 1 january 2005 has increased imports from china by 500% in one year, leading to a further contraction of the community footwear sector and increasing bankruptcies and unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take action against the united states. the consequence of this situation has also affected suppliers of footwear and components from third countries, including candidate countries and developing countries which have been excluded from the community market. following the complaint lodged by the european industry against china and vietnam, the commission opened an anti-dumping investigation which, by its size, is the largest of its kind ever initiated by the community. but good intentions are not enough for parliament. we are asking for information on specific points. what impact has the disappearance of the quota system had on community industry and on developing countries? how does the commission intend to deal with the need to restructure the european footwear sector? what is the commission's assessment of the results of the community surveillance system in this field? how are anti-dumping investigations proceeding and what are the prospects for protecting the community interest? does the commission intend to take further steps at international level, as it did in the textile sector, or are we waiting until it is too late? has the commission considered the need to open an investigation against china as the core of the product-specific transitional safeguard mechanism? the level of protection provided for in the proposal is too low, it is inadequate, all the more so if it is spread over six months, during which the chinese will not wait for the duty to reach 20% to export huge quantities of footwear. this, mr president and commissioner, is not a free market.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is business as usual. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. these will be crushed once and for all by unfair competition from very low-cost goods produced without any serious checks on the conditions in the production and distribution chain, both as regards the environmental impact and the social and employment guarantees of the workforce. these are the factors of production on which the advantage of business costs is played, which unfairly alter any capacity for competition and turn it, instead of being a game of the free market, into open dumping against the interests not only of a sector but of the whole community. i ask the commission to take action to protect the footwear industry from unfair competition from products imported from outside the eu, also in view of the fact that the monitoring measures which the union has taken so far have proved to be practically useless. we demand not only vigilance but also active defence of the genius and quality of the european footwear industry, by severely restricting imports, imposing duties and certifying the social and environmental ethics of products, as i have already called for on other occasions.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of the situation in the italian footwear sector leads me to ask for a substantial modification of the measures you have proposed and which have been partly accepted by the italian government. italy is already paying very high prices in terms of employment. i am not asking this in the name of protectionism, but in the name of calculating the social effects. it is not a question of affirming or denying globalisation or the market, its analysis is theoretically measured and also realistic. it 's a matter of accents . the path between heaven and hell is narrow. as you have said, it is as close as possible to distinguishing between hard competition and unfair competition. i'm going with what he said: china and vietnam have broken the rules. you propose to react, but the proportions of dumping seem to be much higher than those of the duties you propose. i think frankly that his measures must be renegotiated, changing both the values and the timing, i.e. the immediate application of the duties, not in a few months, and their raising by excluding from duty exemption even staff shoes. otherwise neither european producers nor consumers will be protected, nor will the market be well served.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to say that you have the impression that i am dealing with an empty shell. sports shoes have been excluded, but what is the definition of sports shoes? excluded are the childhood shoes that i and many, many other women still wear without being children for many years. the application of anti-dumping measures has been carried out with a degree of gradualness unprecedented in the past, and in particular anti-dumping duties are proposed which are not intended to deal with a situation of unfair competition which the commission itself describes as serious. so i ask you: do you not think that behind the defence of consumers, particularly the poorest families, as you wrote in le figaro on sunday, there is also, or perhaps above all, i do not know, an attempt to safeguard the interests of the multinationals? does he not think that the commission's policy, which i sometimes regard as ambiguous, could jeopardize the important, if not the only, instrument of european trade policy? finally, i would like to ask you to comment on what is happening in the case of bed linen, because even in this case the commission's action is not well understood.
member of the commission. mr president, if you do not mind i shall not go along the course of answering the point about bed linen at this precise moment. in the time i have available i think it would be better to stick to shoes, but i can assure you that the question of any anti-dumping duty on bed linen will be properly assessed and properly applied as, in my opinion, it is at the moment. i think that the value of debates such as this and the important role of this parliament are demonstrated by the very important and insightful observations that have been made during the last 45 minutes. my role on behalf of the commission is to listen to what honourable members have to say and to reflect very carefully on the points and arguments that have been raised. i can assure you i will reflect on them and on the observations made by member states so that when i come back to the commission with final recommendations i will be able to do so having heard the variety, diversity and range of different points and arguments that have been made. however, having heard so many people this afternoon complain that my intervention is protectionist, unnecessary and unjustified, alongside a slightly greater number of members of this house who have complained that i am not going far enough, my actions are inadequate and that i should go further, i am tempted to make the easy observation that perhaps i have got the measures just about right between those two rival points of view! however, tempting as it is to make that rather cheap observation, i am going to avoid doing so. i should like to say, though, that i agree particularly with mr papastamkos and mrs saïfi, both of whom see the need to intervene against anti-competitive and trade-distorting behaviour by our partners, but at the same time to do so with a degree of perspective and balance that i think it behoves me to uphold. i think mr assis is right in that, in the provisional measures that are introduced, it is important that we maintain careful monitoring and surveillance of the effect of what we are doing so as to ensure that, if there is circumvention of our duties, we are able to review the situation and perhaps take revised action when we come to the definitive stage of our measures later this year. let me very quickly respond to some of the other points that have been made. some have drawn a parallel between the proposed action on shoes and the action that we took on textiles. they are very different cases. in the case of textiles, we were dealing with fairly-traded goods, albeit subject to a dramatic and sudden increase in volume following the lifting of quotas on chinese textiles at the beginning of 2005. we therefore took a safeguard measure by the introduction of quotas, as we are entitled to do. we were not, as in this case, dealing with anti-competitive measures – dumping actions – that attract an anti-dumping measure in the form of a tariff duty – not a quota and not a physical limit. therefore i do not anticipate our running into the temporary teething problems that we had in the case of textiles. this should be remembered by those who describe the textile period as involving us in some sort of war or battle with china. far from it. we were able to agree with china the measures that we took, in a very unwarlike way. two other points were raised by a number of members. one concerns the impact on consumer prices. let us put this case into perspective. it concerns only nine pairs of shoes from every 100 pairs bought by european consumers; in other words, a fraction of the product range. a duty would be just over eur 1.50 on average wholesale prices of eur 8.50 on shoes which then sell for between eur 40 and eur 120, as opposed to a duty which would simply amount to eur 1.50. please do not tell me that eur 1.50 cannot be absorbed across the supply chain by importers and retailers, especially importers and retailers who have benefited from low import prices from china and vietnam but who have not passed on the effects of those cheaper import prices to consumers – a question that consumers may put to their retailers if they are able to encounter them at some stage in the future. a number of members have asked me why i am proposing to exclude sports technology shoes and children’s shoes. in the case of the sports shoes, these are excluded from the investigation because they are not produced in europe in sufficient quantity to qualify as being potentially harmed by dumping. there is therefore no injury to european producers because they barely exist in the case of these sports shoes. in the case of children’s shoes, the exclusion i am proposing is on the grounds of community interest. young children need three to four pairs of new shoes per year. the impact of a duty on the price of such shoes is therefore potentially greater than it is for ordinary shoes. in my view, parents should not see any potential hurdles put in the way of buying good-quality shoes for their children. those who want me to reclassify the customs segmentation for these shoes should bear in mind that the customs classification for children is up to size 37½ with heels less than 3cm. whilst i am prepared to discuss that with my colleagues in taxud, it is a classification that i am given, not one that i propose. let me make just briefly one or two other quick observations. there was a suggestion that the investigation had taken too long. this sampling takes time. i am obliged by the regulations that exist within the european community to observe very strict procedures and use very strict reference countries and companies when i am investigating those of another country that does not enjoy market economy status. therefore, just as i cannot anticipate dumping complaints – some members were complaining that i do not show enough foresight, as if i have a crystal ball before me that is going to reveal where the next dumping complaint is going to come from – i cannot pre-empt proper procedures and investigations that are laid out in our regulations and which i am obliged to follow in detail. let me reply to the suggestion that somehow there was a breach of confidentiality. i do not understand this. member states received the commission’s working document before my press conference on 23 february. the moment these working documents go out to member states i can assure you that they are as good as published to the media. i therefore have to clarify them immediately and explain and justify what i am doing. this certainly does not deprive member states of their right to express an opinion on the case or to receive detailed replies from the commission’s services. i shall leave the matter there, except to say in conclusion that it is very important that we see what is happening in china, vietnam, india and other asian countries in some perspective. of course there is tough competition and there is a difficult challenge for european producers and manufacturers to rise to, and we have an obligation to do everything we can to help european producers rise to this challenge and to help those employed in companies adjust to the challenges and the new circumstances of international trade which we are experiencing. i do not believe that a proper and legitimate way of helping people to adjust to these new forces in the global economy is to encourage people to shelter from them or to pretend that, if we close our eyes or cover our heads with a blanket, these changes, challenges and new sources of competition will somehow go away and leave us alone so that we do not have to respond to them. any politician giving that sort of message to the public would be guilty of false leadership, and poor leadership to the public, who need to understand what is going on and help to respond to it. we cannot maintain the pretence that we in europe, by retreating from the competitive challenge we are facing in the global economy, will somehow be able to hide from it and, at the same time, maintain our living standards and our prosperity in the future. we cannot and will not do that. we have to respond to this challenge by putting the emphasis on our competitiveness, innovation and ability to respond to change and to compete more effectively in the future. if we do not rise to that challenge and do not set that out to our public, we cannot blame them subsequently for reacting with fear and mystification to what is taking place in the global economy. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, china is not yet qualified to receive recognition of market economy status by europe. there are technical criteria that china needs to fulfil, and it is making progress towards doing so. indeed we can, should and are giving every assistance to china to enable it more easily and rapidly to make the technical changes that will enable it to fulfil those criteria. it is important to do that. let me add this related comment. the environment in which member states and members of this house come to judge the market economy status of china will be helped and encouraged by china doing more than it is at the moment to open its markets to our exports and to others’ trade, to make sure that it is in full compliance with its wto accession commitments, and to make sure that where it is taking longer than is reasonable to move towards full compliance with those commitments and wto rules it makes the necessary changes sooner rather than later. if china were to do that, and to respond to the anxieties felt in europe and around the world about the growth of its export capacity in a way that rebalanced the terms of trade – so that as well as people seeing goods coming in ever-growing numbers from china, they were also to see those containers being refilled and returned to china with european and other goods – it would do more than anything else to still public anxiety about what we are seeing in china. understandably, people in europe see the growth of china’s market as a threat, but we must understand it as a huge opportunity for us in europe to sell our own goods and services to that market in future. however, china has a responsibility to make sure that no artificial or unreasonable barriers remain in place to european goods and services being sold to the chinese market in ever-growing numbers. when we get that equation right, then perhaps people will be able to look more sympathetically, as well as technically, at the issue of china’s market economy status. (applause)
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
i appreciate the commission's commitment to listen to the concerns of european smes about the increase in imports from third countries, and the latest proposal for anti-dumping countervailing duties on leather footwear against china and vietnam. i do not think that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the proposed duties are inadequate, too low and therefore ineffective. the time-scale (6 months) is inadequate, too weak a procedure for such a serious case of dumping. the exclusion of non-professional sports footwear and children's footwear (which may include women's footwear) is also unacceptable. i would also remind you that another key demand, the introduction of compulsory origin marking for products entering the eu, has been delayed for two years without any agreement being reached between the member states. the worrying increase in 'triangulation', i.e. irregular movements of products to circumvent stricter customs controls (imports from belgium increased by 17.8% in volume, which is completely inexplicable), must also be addressed. the commission's calls for change and innovation are reasonable and interesting, but they only make sense in a truly fair and just competitive environment, and the commission has a duty to ensure that the international market is fair and just.
the next item is the report by mrs adeline hazan, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the evaluation of the european arrest warrant (2005/2175 (ini)) (a6-0049/2006)
the european arrest warrant must be assessed by analysing the overall impact of the framework decision on judicial cooperation, the mutual recognition of criminal offences, and respect for individual guarantees and civil liberties. unfortunately, we are in a very difficult situation today, some member states have shown difficulties in implementing it because they are hampered even by their national constitutions. however, it would be wrong to think that we should impose twists on national constitutions to guarantee the arrest warrant. today's assessment, unfortunately, has to be independent of the data of a country: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the member states. finally, it is not possible to think of establishing the european arrest warrant without first establishing common minimum standards of criminal procedure and without providing for shared guarantees. parliament has already spoken on minimum procedures, and we expect the council to take further action on this point. it was like building a palace from the roof instead of the foundation. the european arrest warrant can certainly be a useful instrument to remove the political will for the extradition of criminals, and there are already some positive examples of this, but the procedure is tainted by an original vice, an original sin, which arose from the haste of having to respond to terrorist attacks with emergency legislation. i very much agree with the assessment made by mr hazan in his report. the text was improved in committee, even avoiding extending the list of 32 offences, but our assessment cannot but derive from the false start caused by the obsession with security. there's an old italian proverb that says: "the cat in a hurry made the kittens blind". this metaphor can be applied perfectly to the assessment of the first year of application of the european arrest warrant.
commissioner, thank you for your answer. since option b, compared with option a, clearly appears to be the better one in many respects, i wonder whether you are now able to rule out the possibility that the commission will raise a question of costs. in particular, will the problem of the slight increase in costs not lead the commission to block the one which appears to be the better of the two options?
vice-president of the commission. of course, the commission is footing most of the bill of the european schools and the problem of cost is also a serious issue. however, i would not focus primarily on that issue of cost; i would focus mainly on the working system and on providing the best possible education for pupils. in that regard, option b is not the best one. with regard to option b, which foresees having almost every section everywhere, there will be much fragmentation, with small groups and small classes, in which case we will be faced with the problem of ensuring good quality teaching and good quality education. therefore, option b is not the best one. yes, it is also much more expensive, but we in the commission do not regard the cost issue as the first and most important issue. the most important issue involves securing the efficient functioning of the system of european schools, and there are also many problems concerning the future quality of education.
vice-president of the commission. thank you very much, but i do not share the opinion that we are not being transparent in this process. the whole process has been transparent for all parties and those options have been there. if you like, the commission will be taking the greater initiative in preparing those options. logically, however, a final consensus must be reached that involves the parents’ organisations, the schools themselves and the teaching staff. the commission is providing its input and is most definitely considering all possible options put forward by other parties. we are trying to play a part in finding a final solution that is more or less acceptable to everybody. we have been transparent throughout this process and we are now thinking about some kind of compromise solution, an intermediate option between options a and b. so the process has been transparent and involves very complicated negotiations with all parties. here the commission is one negotiating partner and it also wants to respect the other parties, including the belgian authorities, who have a substantial input to make.
if option a, which was mentioned in the debate between the two, is adopted, does it seem to you, commissioner, that the risk would be that many families would have their children in different schools? given that the data disseminated within the monitoring group indicate that the demographic trend of some sections, for example the italian section, will be higher than that of many other nationalities in the coming years, do you not think that this is an element and a point which should lead the commission to choose option b rather than the alternatives mentioned?
vice-president of the commission. the final decision will be taken by the board of governors. you mentioned that the children could end up attending different sites. i read in the basic concept papers about the criteria for this. the commission’s opinion is that we should endeavour by all means to avoid that kind of thing. children of the same family, siblings, must go to the same school. option b has some tremendous weaknesses in terms of the future development of education. we do not share the view that option b is the best one, but intensive work will be done to find solutions that satisfy as many parties and parents as possible.
commissioner, i shall return to the same point: criterion f, among those adopted in october, states that if a section exists in more than one school, it must be hosted in peripheral schools and in central schools. i want to be even clearer: if option a, prepared by the monitoring group, were to be accepted, the italian section would be the only one to be penalised because it would be located in two peripheral schools: uccle and laeken. do you not think, commissioner, that option a is discriminatory towards italian pupils? i therefore ask you to make a commitment to this by rejecting it and adopting option b.
member of the commission. we are working together with the romanian government in a very consistent manner. we recognise that it has revised its legislation and that, on the basis of that legislation, an expert group is reviewing the pending cases. that expert group should finalise its work in the course of this month. we are in regular contact with the romanian authorities on this issue. our view is that as long as they respect the un convention on the rights of the child and european legislation, then it is up to the romanian government and authorities to look for a solution. as regards the situation in the childcare sector, it is our understanding, on the basis of the very detailed progress reports, that it has improved on the ground, not least because the european union has provided substantial support for the restructuring of the childcare sector, accounting for around eur 160 million in the last 15 years. in overall terms, the screening process of applications for inter-country adoptions registered before the entry into force of the new legislation is expected to be completed this month. we expect that the romanian authorities will inform all the applicants individually.
mr commissioner, you have already answered part of my question, which is the question of outstanding adoption cases. on the basis of specific requests made by the european parliament in several resolutions, a group of experts was set up to examine the outstanding situations on a case-by-case basis. i would like to know whether there is any information on the timetable for the completion of the questions and whether we will therefore have information on the results of the work carried out so far by this group.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the promotion of fishing methods which respect the marine environment shows that the european union is acutely aware of the difficulties facing the sector and of the need for structural measures to ensure the responsible exploitation of aquatic resources. reducing fishing pressure because of the poor state of fish stocks, optimising catches by preventing large quantities of fish, mostly immature, from being discarded at sea, reducing the impact on particularly sensitive habitats - these are the main and shared objectives of the common fisheries policy. adopting measures to protect and conserve living aquatic resources, to ensure their sustainable exploitation, to identify compensatory measures for lost income, to support development through research and innovation, are priority commitments defined in this report. we strongly support this report, because if we make fishing more environmentally friendly, we also help to promote positive socioeconomic conditions. i am convinced that the technical rules governing fishing can only be properly applied if fishermen are willing to do so. the cooperation, consensus and participation of all stakeholders in the evaluation, implementation and definition of all technical measures to be adopted should therefore be strengthened, including through a decentralised approach; the european union will thus once again be deciding not over its citizens but with them.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is good that the european union is using its influence to make the whole more than the sum of its parts by strengthening research and development, by unlocking the potential of enterprises, by promoting enlargement and better use of the quality of the workforce, by energy measures, but all this is subject to a premise: european added value is only fully expressed if it can be the fruit of the work of a truly unified european society and economy, if results are achieved through the european union's core business. the establishment of the single market, of a community unified socially and politically precisely in the enhancement of the richness of its cultural identities, this is a factor to be emphasized strongly: there is no single market, no european society capable of expressing its full potential without the physical integration of europe, without transport infrastructure and services guaranteeing mobility and accessibility from any point 'a' to any point 'b' of the union itself. do not look at this goal as a nearly obsolete goal in the face of the new things we have to face, it is an essential premise: no research is carried out without the possibility of face-to-face contacts; there is no real business potential if markets are not integrated. this is a fundamental precondition which we solemnly promised to achieve a year ago with resolution 884-2004, adopted in this house, by undertaking to work towards the transeuropean transport network as soon as possible, by 2020. unfortunately, there is no trace of this objective in the commission's communication, contrary to the initial proposal, as was the case last year when they solemnly imagined and pushed in this direction, urging the member states to move in this way too. if we add to this the council's proposals for drastic budget cuts in this sector, which make the objective almost unrealizable or at any rate farther away in time, we find ourselves in a situation of red alert. in some ways it seems to me that parliament is trying to put a piece in its resolution by its speech and is calling on all the parties involved to ensure that the completion of the transeuropean transport network becomes a reality. i would like to make a heartfelt appeal to you to avoid a very serious political mistake: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no part of europe where tens are not discussed. the tens are in fact one of the unplanned and therefore inadequately supported chapters of the d plan which is supposed to fill the gap of interest between the european union and its citizens. if we do not keep our promises, if we do not meet these expectations, we are triggering effects that are enormously more serious and serious than those we are trying to achieve in our attempt to put the european project together. i hope that this idea will not pass and that it will be possible to avoid the disastrous effects that a possible interruption of the project would have on the expectations of many european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. in our view, the actions taken to achieve the lisbon objectives - growth, employment and competitiveness - have been few and far between. more support is needed for small and mediumsized enterprises, the backbone of our industrial fabric, and therefore better access to credit, european funding and research and technology programmes, and greater defence of european quality industry against unfair attacks from international competition; i am referring to the textile and food industries. we need an energy plan that makes the european union independent of the current geopolitical instability and we need to devote the utmost attention to new sources of energy in order to ensure sustainable development, including environmental sustainability. we need to invest in education, training, research and innovation to ensure that our production processes are competitive. finally, we must safeguard our main resource: the workers and human capital. we must not allow the employment and welfare of our citizens to take second place to the laws of the market and international trade. we must not forget that industry must be at the service of the workers and not the other way around.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in march 2000 european leaders decided what europe should be in 2010. they understood that action by individual member states would be even more effective if it was supported by collective action by other member states. today, the growing growth gap between europe and the americas and asia, as well as the ageing of the population, require that the lisbon strategy be implemented urgently and effectively in order to make up for lost time. better results can also be achieved by complementary initiatives and concerted structural changes within the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. individual member states have made progress in some of these areas, but none of them has achieved positive and lasting results. to achieve its objectives, europe must demonstrate a far greater commitment, including by exerting pressure on individual member states. the member states must abandon old national practices and devote more resources to the construction of europe. we must make the citizens understand that today's sacrifices will be rewarded by tomorrow's benefits. the european parliament is a central element in the growth strategy, in the commitment to build the new europe. it must therefore act more and more as an incentive for all those involved in the process of reviving europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mrs bauer on social inclusion and protection and i would like to put a question to the european council, that is to say to the 25 heads of government, to which i hope they will reply: the pensioners are now receiving a pension that is getting smaller and smaller, less and less sufficient to live and survive. the reforms that the 25 heads of government are implementing are aimed at giving pensioners less and less. in italy alone, young people will receive a pension equal to only one third of their last salary in 2050. i want to send this dvd recording of my voice to the 27 heads of government, and i hope they will make it clear what they want to do. perhaps we should abolish the category of retired citizens or allow those who have worked and are no longer able to work because of their age to survive?
mr brok's report is comprehensive and complete as regards the current state of enlargement and takes account of countries which are undoubtedly making considerable efforts to achieve the political and economic objectives required for accession to the european union. in particular, we agree with the call on croatia to 'resolve bilateral property problems', but we note with regret that no mention is made of the problems of adapting the legislation of that country as regards access to the property market for community citizens and specifically for italians and for the julian and dalmatian exiles. no eu citizen can be prevented from settling in a member state and from accessing the property market. the justification of the ban by the application of the principle of reciprocity is not sufficient to say today that croatia fulfils all the requirements to be a candidate for future membership of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed facing a very important situation for europe: the member states are still bound to the perception of a national dimension which is regarded as the dominant one, while we forget that there has been a leap in size and that we must consciously move towards a continental dimension, knowing that we are moving in that direction and also knowing how to govern it. that is why i cannot understand the difficulties that have arisen, for example in the case of the mergers of banks in poland, and we in italy have accepted a takeover of the banca nazionale del lavoro in this very perspective. i see a conflict of interest in these difficulties, precisely because very often these are wholly public companies or at least majority public companies. it is a conflict of interest between the immediate political interest and the long-term interest, not only of consumers but also of the overall efficiency of the european system. this is what has happened in the case of enel and suez, where a major conflict of interest emerges between the need to rationalise our companies so that they can really compete on a global scale and the need to avoid their being mortified on such a short-term scale. i ask that competition be organized as well; we also discussed this with commissioner kroes this morning, and i thank her for her willingness to discuss energy competition. the electricity, gas and electricity networks must be set up at a european level. this is our mission and i urge swift action on this matter.
i am not saying that the commission should be unable to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the crisis. what happened now confirms it: europe is struggling to have an innovative energy policy commensurate with the problems posed by the kyoto protocol and the need for new and different development. the world has seen dramatic wars for control of oil resources and now this conflict is moving into europe: the solution is not protectionism, of course, but a more equitable use of available energy and the promotion of energy saving and renewable sources. i reiterate our firm opposition to sources as dangerous as nuclear. we must create economic and social models that are not energy-intensive, and aim at cooperation with other continents. as you can see, this is very different from getting involved in trade wars that have nothing to do with our future. to reduce everything to commodities and trade is a grave mistake. neither liberalism nor protectionism, but a different energy policy, shared and in solidarity with europe and the world - that must be our role!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the unification of markets is a fundamental objective of the union, but it is also more than that: the market is one of the pillars on which the whole process of european integration has been built and is based. a real market requires first of all that capital should move freely and be placed where it is best remunerated; secondly, companies are taking on a cross-border dimension and establishing themselves where they consider it most attractive for their competitiveness through mergers and acquisitions, even hostile ones. the market does not tolerate abuses of dominant positions which impede free competition. an open and well-functioning market is crucial for europe's competitiveness on international markets. the protectionism we have seen in recent months has the opposite effect. with states blocking takeovers, cross-border mergers or acquisitions to protect national strategic interests. in reality, protectionism is designed to defend weak and inefficient firms or to artificially create national champions. the damage it causes is significant for users, who cannot get the best prices for goods and services, and is serious for the community, which has to bear the costs of noncompetitive enterprises. it should be added that protectionism by its very nature is not able to guarantee workers a secure and lasting employment prospect. europe is going backwards with protectionism. in order to function properly, the market must be efficient, there must be no asymmetries. everyone has to follow the rules: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore call on the european commission to take firm action to ensure the free movement of capital and free competition. we therefore welcome what has been said to mrs kroes in this house. the courage to make these choices means being a serious europeanist: the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament which has been the driving force behind the process of european integration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with two possible mergers. the first, between gaz de france and suez, is unnatural because it creates an energy monopoly in belgium in the gas and electricity sectors and further closes the french market to the presence of competitors; the second merger, between enel and suez, could lead to diversification in the french and belgian energy markets. the principle of reciprocity in relations between european countries in the energy sector is essential for a european energy market serving consumers and for a common european energy policy. in italy, large space has been given to energy companies from other countries through privatisation and liberalisation policies. this has also happened in other european nations. the french violation of the principle of reciprocity in this case is not justified by the need to guarantee energy autonomy through national samples, but is instead an expression of a policy of excessive nationalism: france already has its national energy champions, it does not need to create new ones. the merger between gaz de france and suez, which controls the belgian electrabel, would pose a serious risk of encouraging protectionist tendencies not only in the energy sector but also in other industrial, financial and service sectors. the european commission has in other cases used its antitrust instruments to a severe degree to block the development of dominant positions and the retaliation of international competition. this has recently happened in the abn-amro/bank antonveneta and bbva/banque nationale du travail cases, which now appear to have benefited bnp paribas, a french bank. it is desirable that the commission should apply the same rigor to the free movement of capital. even in these circumstances the principle must apply to everyone.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the process of industrial and financial concentration can strengthen the european union in the world. in some cases and at certain stages it can be carried out in a useful way by national means, but these are often defensive and risk triggering a dangerous protectionist spiral which must be stopped: the legal framework must be further developed, the national rules on acquisitions and mergers must be brought closer together, otherwise the pursuit of reciprocity clauses will crush all countries on the most closed and protective norm. finally, in some sectors we will inevitably have oligopolistic structures, for example in energy. these arrangements must not be collusive or unfavourable to consumers and public control of certain companies must not lead to easy market abuse. in short, we need more strength and more integration for the regulatory authority, more strength for antitrust and, immediately, a more active and more decisive attitude on the part of the commission.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the italian delegation of the udc-svp has in recent weeks submitted a written question to the commission to highlight the contradictions of a european energy policy which seems to be in crisis. the french government's decision to create another energy giant in violation of the principles of the european market will have negative consequences. the merger between the companies suez and gaz de france risks triggering a fratricidal struggle between member states at the very moment when europe is about to liberalize the market in this sector by 100%. this political initiative is being implemented in defiance of all the principles of transparency and free competition and is in fact replacing the ownership of the financial game that should belong to the single market. the commission is also concerned about the transposition of the opa directive in france, which will be discussed again tomorrow in the national assembly after a long period of silence. this draft law may hamper possible transactions on suez's capital by giving excessive powers to the companies involved in the offer. in the face of such an anomaly, we could not help but raise the question responsibly, asking ourselves what energy policy our europe intends to pursue. we want to reiterate in this house, mr president, the fear of a dangerous drift towards a europe of nations contrary to the ideals and the spirit of the treaties, contrary to the spirit and the values that de gasperi, adenauer, schumann, monnet have handed down to us. europe, which has created a single currency, which is seeking to harmonize laws, rules, statutes and institutions, which is creating a central bank, which is establishing the schengen area, cannot be reduced to a game in which national interests prevail over those of the community and in which politics is rapidly replaced by the market. the prospect of a pan-european industrial context, which president barroso has revived with the adoption of the green paper on energy, gives us hope at last. the creation of open markets for the benefit of consumers and the centrality of european global policies, protected from national selfishness, must be the commission's priority objectives for the coming months.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have rightly also raised euro-mediterranean cooperation in the course of the brief debate on the middle east which we have had today on this occasion. this cooperation is of great importance in the context of the middle east, but also in other contexts. i do not want to repeat here what i have already said on behalf of the council today on events in the middle east. in the meantime, the presidency has also made a statement on this. i would now like to turn to the euromed process itself. the austrian presidency follows the barcelona summit in november last year, marking the tenth anniversary of the first barcelona summit, which adopted a five-year agenda for the partnership focusing on political and economic reforms and a code of conduct on combating terrorism. i believe that these documents and agreements are of the utmost importance. we have also agreed with our mediterranean partners to invest more in education and to jointly tackle all aspects of legal and illegal immigration. this is another very important issue. it is now up to the austrian presidency to make a commitment to implementing all these projects. we shall do so with pleasure and with emphasis and conviction. i would also like to announce that a meeting of the trade ministers will be held in marrakesh on 24 march and a meeting of the euromed finance ministers will be held in tunis on 25 and 26 june. we will also support the commission in particular in its media focus, because we are convinced that the media in particular play an important role in the understanding of cultures. in this context, we will now hold the long-planned euromed seminar on xenophobia and racism in the media during the austrian presidency in may. the subject of the cartoons, on which i have already had the opportunity to speak to you, has been a subject of intense concern to the council in recent weeks, including at the informal meeting of foreign ministers in salzburg. you heard it from the chairman, the austrian foreign minister. this problem has made it clear to us that we must pursue the path of a forward-looking dialogue between the european union and the islamic world and the muslim communities in europe. the euro-mediterranean partnership in particular offers an important and ideal forum for dialogue between the mediterranean countries. i believe that this dialogue at all levels, and in particular direct contact between young people, is particularly important, and i believe that the euro-mediterranean partnership can and must indeed play a very important role. last year, the anna lindh foundation for intercultural dialogue was set up to this end. this foundation is playing a vital role right now. the conclusions of the foreign affairs council of 27 february 2006 explicitly mentioned the barcelona process and the anna lindh foundation, among other multilateral organisations with a role in this field. we welcome that. it is now important that we use all the instruments of the euro-mediterranean partnership that are available and use them to overcome tensions as in the recent past . a meeting of euromed senior officials took place on 22 february, which allowed for a very open exchange of views on what was happening and gave all participants the opportunity to propose concrete measures. in principle, it is agreed that the structures necessary to deal with this problem already exist. i don't think we should create new structures. we are now called upon to use all reasonable means of dialogue to continue successfully the long-standing efforts to bring the peoples of both sides of the mediterranean closer together. the parliamentary assembly of the euro-mediterranean partnership brings together representatives of the peoples on both sides of the mediterranean. we expect them to make a particularly important contribution to further calm and understanding in this situation. the parliamentary assembly of the euro-mediterranean partnership has given the barcelona process a much-needed new dimension and, in particular, increased its legitimacy. the preparation of the barcelona summit in november 2005 saw the setting up of working groups. the political committee of the parliamentary assembly held a detailed debate on the cartoon problem in a factual atmosphere at its meeting on the sixth of the month and also pointed out the need for increased dialogue. i am convinced that the general assembly on 26 and 27 march will also be able to give an adequate answer to the questions raised. the austrian presidency is following and supporting the various initiatives which are being taken in this regard. today, at its meeting, the euromed committee, the highest official body of the barcelona process, changed the title of a seminar to be held in vienna at the request of the mediterranean partners to reflect their concern to respect religious sentiments. i am convinced that there is still room for improvement in the communication between the traditional euromed bodies and the parliamentary assembly of the euro-mediterranean partnership. i hope that under the austrian presidency we can make further progress on this issue with some imagination for the benefit of all euromed bodies and the partnership as a whole. in addition, in the current context, it might be possible to encourage increased cooperation, for example with the osce or with the alliance of civilizations, a spanish-turkish initiative under the auspices of the un. austria wishes to continue its involvement in this wider context and has already invited vienna to host the 3rd meeting of the high level group of the alliance at the end of may.
member of the commission. mr president, we are here to discuss the barcelona process and the preparations for the next meeting of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. let me just say a few words about the recent events in the palestinian territories, because today the time was so short during the speeches on the gymnich and there were only two commissioners. i ceded my place to commissioner rehn for the western balkans debate and now, if you permit me, i shall say a few words on yesterday's events. it is not only topical but also goes to the heart of the euro-mediterranean partnership, to our shared objective for a region of peace, stability, prosperity and opportunity. i fail to see how any of the actions yesterday in any way contributed to those objectives. the israeli attack on the prison in jericho and the israelis' public treatment of prison guards and inmates is unacceptable and should be condemned. i also deplore the violence, the kidnappings and the attacks on the commission offices and other offices of the member states in gaza and the west bank. the first victims of this breakdown of law and order are the palestinian people themselves. in the current circumstances, with key political deadlines ahead in both israel and the palestinian territories, it is more important than ever that both parties show restraint and responsibility. attacks, such as the ones that took place yesterday, and provocative statements do nothing to improve prospects, and the palestinian authority must put an end to violence and insecurity. yesterday evening, i had a good discussion – as you, mr president, no doubt did – with president abbas before he returned to deal with the mounting violence and confrontation. he is doing one of the most difficult jobs in the world just now, which was not made any easier by yesterday's events. how he manages to compose a new palestinian authority government will affect the prospects for peace in the middle east and will also have repercussions for us all. the european union is a reliable partner of the palestinian people. no donor has done more to help them. i told president abbas once again that we want to continue our support for a better, peaceful and prosperous future, but that we stand firm on our principles, leaving the door open to positive developments. all future assistance to a new palestinian authority government will be reviewed in relation to its position on the key principles of an end to violence, recognition of israel and compliance with the existing agreements, including the roadmap. those with whom president abbas negotiates must know and understand that their decisions on their issues will have important repercussions. let me now say a few words about the euro-med partnership. the barcelona summit last november achieved notable results for the future. the five-year work programme agreed at the summit and the code of conduct on counter-terrorism constitute a very ambitious agenda which will render the partnership more tangible, more politically relevant and more operational. to follow up on the summit, we must now ensure constructive and effective contributions by all partners to attain the commonly agreed objectives on political and economic reform, growth and job creation, human rights and gender issues, education and management of migration, regional stability and the fight against terrorism. the commission has already launched work on the implementation of that five-year programme. initiatives have been taken with the current and the incoming council presidencies, as well as with mediterranean partners, to ensure the success of this common endeavour. we have reserved appropriate funding for assistance and support, provided through meda and the future european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, including a substantial facility to encourage progress on governance reform that we call a 'governance facility'. as of this year, several new and innovative activities will be launched. preparations are well under way to organise the first euro-med ministerial meeting on gender issues at the end of the year. two sub-regional conferences, one in the maghreb and one in the mashreq, will pave the way for government and civil society representatives to examine the importance of gender equality for economic and social development and propose practical measures to improve women’s access to jobs and public life. at the barcelona summit, euro-med partners highlighted the importance of migration, social integration, justice and security as issues of common interest in the partnership, which should be addressed through a balanced and comprehensive approach. work has begun on preparing a ministerial meeting to tackle all issues from illegal migration to trafficking in human beings and people smuggling. this regional initiative is complemented by our bilateral programmes aimed at strengthening institutional capacities, managing legal migration, improving border controls, fighting illegal immigration and people trafficking. mr winkler has already mentioned the trade ministerial meeting, which will be attended by commissioner mandelson and will advance the objective of a european free trade area. we also hope to see similar progress on south-south trade – the 'agadir process'. the so-called cartoon crisis has highlighted the dangers of leaving prejudice, misinformation and misunderstanding to fester. we regret the offence caused by those cartoons to muslims across the world, but we also strongly condemned all violent acts and threats against individuals and property of the european union and other countries. support for intercultural dialogue at all levels is important. i am glad that in salzburg this has been very strongly recommended. we are convinced that the barcelona process has a framework for it and that the architecture is already there: there is the anna lindh foundation and 35 other structures within an entire network. we must reach out to civil society and the media, and all the media seminars that are being planned by the austrian presidency are very welcome. in this context, i am very happy with the initiative to exchange views on this subject during the next euro-med parliamentary assembly. from there, i would go to the arab league summit in khartoum, because it is highly important that we now use every opportunity to really talk to our arab friends and colleagues. at this critical juncture, our message has to be clear: it is through a vigorous but also peaceful dialogue of opinions, with full respect for freedom of expression, that understanding can be deepened and respect can be built. indeed, that is the essence of the barcelona process. therefore, what we want to do is give more hope to progress. together, we want to realise the objectives of security, stability and prosperity. (applause)
on behalf of the pse group. madam commissioner, mr minister, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic events of these hours in palestine require us to make a judgment and, as you said, madam commissioner, they touch the heart of the euro-mediterranean partnership. i would like to say to the israeli authorities that an election campaign, however important it may be, cannot involve the subversion of existing legal frameworks. one of these, and the main one, is the role of president abu mazen, who was struck and exhausted by the irresponsible act of storming the jericho prison and capturing prisoners whose detention was the responsibility of the palestinian authority. i would also like to hear from the council an assessment of the behaviour of the uk and us forces on the ground. the president of the palestinian authority, who should have been here today, deserves our full political and moral support. we are aware of the very difficult position he is in, especially after the result of the palestinian legislative elections. europe, commissioner, as you said, must call on the israeli authorities to respect the law and the legitimate interlocutors, as we are demanding from hamas itself. breaking the framework of legality is to open the door to the retaliation and violence that are already taking place and that we must try to curb. we are relieved in this regard by the news of the release of the hostages. on the iranian crisis, another painful chapter, i appreciated the statements of minister jacques straw, which i hope he will maintain to the end. he said there was no military option. the minister has made clear a position which the whole of europe should take and which the socialist group fully endorses, since it is also our position. to depart from the negotiations would lead to the disastrous dynamics already known in iraq. this does not make us any weaker, but rather opens up the possibility of a closer dialogue, reassuring the iranian and syrian populations who feel threatened. let us ease the tension, let us avoid the creation of unnatural alliances built in the name of the fight against the west! we are united in pressing the international community to ensure that iran complies with the obligations it has signed up to by signing the non-proliferation treaty, with a view to disarmament in the middle east and the entire mediterranean area! it is to be hoped that in this extremely delicate transition europe will be able to speak with one voice, with autonomy and efficiency, and that the next euro-mediterranean parliament will be a good opportunity to address these issues.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, and i am sure that the commission will take it up with the council and the council. at the same time, we ourselves cannot have a happy conscience just because we continue to help, we must continue to help the palestinians. yesterday's action, like so many others, is illegal, cynical, inhuman. illegal because it's illegal, but also cynical because it thinks about the elections: it is a manifestation of revenge and brutal colonialism. i think it is time for israel to understand that its own life, its own love of democracy can only exist if it respects other peoples; but he's not doing it, and we certainly can't be complicit in that, and we're not. the commissioner and the council have been very clear about this this morning. our parliamentary assembly is extremely important, but we should face a problem: the participation of the palestinian delegation in the parliamentary assembly. we must absolutely accept the presence of the one who will be appointed by the palestinian legislative council. it is a pity that this is happening one day before the israeli elections, because it means that an essential component of the assembly will not be present. but we must make it work, because if we do not solve the palestinian question, our assembly will always have the palestinian and israeli issues at its centre and as its subject of discussion. we cannot even tackle the problems that the commissioner and the council have set out very clearly, which are those of achieving a truly cooperative mediterranean.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. until now, the double standard has been in force: it is unacceptable that russia has never been condemned for the hateful behaviour of its special forces in chechnya; it is unacceptable that china has never been condemned for the dramatic repression of the fundamental rights of the tibetan people; it is unacceptable that the united states should not be held accountable for its behaviour in iraq, where an occupation which is illegal under international law has resulted in over 100 000 civilian casualties; or what about israel, which imposes illegal measures of collective punishment against the palestinian people, which are expressly prohibited by international conventions? the reason for the state cannot be justified by denying the rights of millions of men, women and children all over the planet. the european union must show more courage in this respect: our credibility and our policy of promoting human rights are at stake. it is not enough to protest against countries that are not protected by often questionable international alliances. human rights are enshrined in codes, legal treaties apply to everyone, especially those who are powerful. the final blow to the credibility of the now defunct geneva commission on human rights was the presence in that institution of governments representing dictatorships and who used their institutional position within the un to avoid criticism of their policies and behaviour. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. so welcome all the announced reforms which will have to transform the geneva commission into a small human rights council. i welcome the news that the un has just passed a resolution calling for radical reform of that body despite opposition from the united states. i agree with the indications in the resolution we are going to adopt tomorrow, particularly when it says that only countries which show respect for fundamental rights can be part of the future council. we must also recognize a greater role for truly democratic and independent international ngos, through the creation of a un committee of ngos which must be able to play a role of stimulation and criticism of the un human rights system.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank you very much for the opinions expressed here. they essentially confirm that the european union's position was correct. expectations are high for the new council. the council's position on the appointment of the commission is consistent with these expectations. that is the only way this council can really work. of course, we cannot override the laws of political reality overnight. but i think we have a chance. the european union must play a major role in this. i thank you for the support you have expressed here. it has been pointed out repeatedly that the election of the members of the human rights council is of the utmost importance. we all regret that the original proposal by a two-thirds majority was not viable. i would like to stress once again that the european union's self-imposed commitment to vote only for countries with a clean record on human rights is of great importance. we are not talking about 25 or 27 votes, but about the size of the association of countries, the entire community of democratic states, which is capable of blocking the admission of members who are in fact flagrant violators of human rights. mr coveney said that 47 members of the new human rights council were too many, that the instrument was too large. that's something to discuss. it is worth remembering that the human rights council has at least a few fewer members than the commission on human rights. given the 191 members of the united nations, 47 seems to me to be a very reasonable number. this has actually resulted in the western group having a few fewer seats, which is also due to the fact that the election is now not in ecosoc but directly in the general assembly. that's unfortunate, but if you say a, you have to say b. if we want to have a powerful, relatively small instrument, we also have to accept that we have a few fewer voices. i agree with mr schmidt on everything he said. the united states' demand that the five permanent members of the security council should be automatically admitted to the human rights council was a relatively early proposal, which was also not supported in the final phase. it would certainly not have been supported by the european union, and it was therefore never really able to obtain a majority from within. mrs flautre pointed out that the important dossiers still have to be completed in the course of the work of the commission on human rights. the european union will of course ensure that the remaining issues are closed in a way that benefits human rights and that these dossiers can then be taken over immediately by the human rights council.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the draft resolution establishing the human rights council was adopted by such a majority - 70 votes in favour, 4 against and 3 abstentions - really suggests that the council will have some credibility. secondly, there is no doubt that 9 may, the day on which the members of the council are elected, will be an important moment in the council's genesis. i hope that the candidate countries will put forward their candidature a month before the vote, as they have been asked to do by the union. the council is due to meet for the first time in geneva on 16 june. i hope that many of us will be attending this session. while the human rights council is undoubtedly a happy outcome of the last un summit, it is clear that it is above all the multilateral architecture that has been crowned with success with the creation, also in december 2005, of the peacebuilding commission, which should also meet soon. 2006 should indeed be a good year for multilateralism. in both cases, the union has demonstrated its commitment to effective multilateralism, its leadership and its ability to also have an influence on un reform. i think we can continue on this path together.
member of the commission. mr president, i want to start by thanking mr graefe zu baringdorf and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for all the work they have carried out on both reports, the first on protection of geographical indications and designations of origin and the second on traditional specialities guaranteed. the commission appreciates the efficient organisation of your work, which has enabled adoption of the reports within a short period of time. in my opening statement i address both reports, thereby focusing on the general background that has led to these commission proposals. firstly, as regards the report on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin, almost 14 years ago the european community established a voluntary system of geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs other than wines and spirits. since 1993, over 700 names have been registered. almost 300 requests are currently waiting for registration; this gives an idea of the success of this system. this success may explain the interest shown by our trade partners in this regulation. the conclusions of the recent wto panels on cases brought by the us and australia impose on us the obligation to open the community scheme to direct applications and objections from individuals in third countries. this is the fundamental reason for the proposal you have on the table: to ensure conformity with the conclusions of the panels. on the basis of experience gained in managing the registration process, we realised that the current system would not survive an additional burden of direct applications from operators in third countries. thus we had to streamline the system and make it more efficient. if we simply conform to wto rules without increasing the efficiency of the functioning of the system, the whole approval process could come to a standstill. i should add that, in order to avoid any risk of a new complaint at wto level, the procedure for third-country and eu denominations should be as similar as possible. we have all been surprised by the extent of the changes required under the wto ruling. while the community won the panel on the substantive trademark issue, we lost on the procedural questions. we also included one clear policy change, namely promoting the use of community logos for enhancing the credibility of the system. apart from that, however, there are no policy initiatives, as the primary purpose of the proposal is to conform to the wto panel findings within the deadline. the many demands and suggestions for policy development set out in the amendments adopted in the committee on agriculture and rural development are issues that deserve more time to be adequately addressed. let me turn now to the other proposal, which concerns traditional specialities guaranteed. in spite of the modest number of products registered, some producers have shown their interest in this regulation. there are only 50 names registered as traditional specialities guaranteed, but there are 19 applications pending at community level and a number of others under examination in the member states. this regulation has not been amended since its adoption in 1992. the procedures have been designed neither for 25 nor for 27 member states, or for handling a significant number of applications. there is a similar need to streamline and standardise the content of applications so that more efficient procedures are adopted and so that producers who make the effort to engage in quality schemes are not disappointed by approvals being delayed for several years. i also consider it important to correct a number of inconsistencies and to reflect substantial advances in legal drafting standards since 1992. at the same time, we propose simplifications and clarifications and other improvements identical to those proposed for geographical indications and designations of origin. finally, we are keen to make it clear in this regulation that wto rules are respected and to forestall any criticism. in conclusion, these proposals achieve wto conformity and introduce limited but necessary housekeeping that is designed to streamline and clarify procedures. we can thereby underpin the mechanisms and better serve producers and consumers who rely on denominations. however, particularly in the light of the wto deadline of 3 april 2006, we did not propose deeper policy changes. those will be addressed in due course within the framework of a wide reflection on agricultural quality policy.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the proposal for a directive on the protection of geographical indications and traditional specialities for agricultural products. i think the commission's work is very positive overall: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. i am convinced that the increased responsibilities given to the member states, the precise deadlines for the procedure and the new opposition system respond to this need: the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the possibility of accessing the european system for the protection of agricultural products for third countries makes it necessary to protect the consumer against a mistaken association between the community symbols and the actual origin of the product. the indication of the origin of the product on the label, together with the diversification of the colour of the community logos and the authorization for the use of the wording for processed products, are all new developments which respond to greater consumer protection. i also believe that these measures will encourage producers to make better and more use of the quality labels, continuing the policy of quality in agri-foodstuffs that the european union is promoting. finally, i support amendments nos 48 and 50 which aim to allow the cooperation of regional authorities in the national verification phase and stronger protection for pdos and pgi than for other forms of protection such as trademarks. i hope that my colleagues will share my view tomorrow by adopting these two amendments. finally, i would like to thank the commission, which has decided to refer the matter to parliament, and i would also like to recall what my colleague said earlier, for these procedures and the recognition of quality products, thus responding to a widespread need for speed, but also and above all for the protection of the excellence of european rural areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must be able to guarantee and protect the quality of its agricultural and food production. to achieve this, it is necessary to defend traditional specialities and geographical indications, including against the attacks launched within the world trade organisation by the united states and australia. the rapporteur has done a very good job of improving the two regulations: we must protect products to make a big impact on food safety and against the global taste-testing! unfortunately, we are all too often confronted with counterfeiting: the largest market in southern italy, that of vittoria in sicily, is crossed every day by counterfeit products which are put on the market as pgi products, for example the pachino tomato. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but there is one question that must be asked: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would simply ask that it be noted that mr bossi, mr borghezio, mr speroni and mr salvini have raised the matter of the absolute irregularity of the procedure followed in the matters which are the subject of the president's statement. we weren't notified of any meeting. this decision by the ind/dem group is absolutely illegal and irregular and therefore the communication given this morning by the president must be considered as being based on an illegal and irregular decision.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the communication on the exclusion of myself and other colleagues from the ind/dem group, you replied that you took note of it and that it would be recorded in the minutes. i do not, however, find this answer satisfactory. we have pointed out, through our head of delegation, mr borghezio, that there are irregularities in the procedure for excluding a member from the group, and i therefore ask the presidency to verify that these are correct. if the presidency is satisfied that everything is in order, i shall consider myself not to be a member, but i would like the presidency to check whether the procedures have been correct.
in writing. we voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation because it establishes a system of protection for producers of 'regional specialities' in the context of agri-food production. it is extremely important for our producers in the padua region that the scope of this protection system be properly regulated, both in terms of the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications for agricultural products. in this context, however, we would like to stress the need for special protection measures to be taken in favour of the very important european floriculture sector, which has its area of excellence in padania, and particularly in the province of imperia. it is a serious fact that the measures of customs liberalization have ended up favouring the production of flowers from non-european countries - such as israel, kenya, colombia, ecuador, zimbabwe and south africa - which have seen their market share increase exponentially to the detriment of european production. the policy of international import agreements must therefore be renegotiated, and specifically that no tariff concessions are granted to products from third countries which do not comply with european standards on labour (including child labour), the environment, taxation, etc. (the text of the declaration is deleted in accordance with article 142 of the regulation)
the agenda includes the continuation of the debate on the report by mrs marianne thyssen on the community action programme on health and consumer protection (2007-2013) - consumer aspects
i would like to make a suggestion to the members from the new countries, who are used to reading their speeches in the chamber. reading the speech at excessive speed impairs the translation and makes it impossible to understand the speech itself. i therefore suggest that you say one sentence less as long as the interpreters read at a sustainable speed or that you give your speech to the interpreters sooner so that they keep up with your reading pace. this is to help people understand our parliamentary work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on 23 march 2006.
the agenda includes six motions for resolutions on human rights in moldova and in particular in transnistria. see the minutes.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5 p.m.
the agenda includes six motions for resolutions on kazakhstan and a debate on the minutes.
in reiterating our support for the initiative, i should like to remind you that the rules of procedure strictly prohibit the introduction into the chamber of any flammable or burning object, so i would ask the honourable member to turn it off, thank you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5 p.m.
the agenda includes six motions for resolutions on impunity in africa, in particular the case of hissène habré.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results and further details of the votes: see minutes)
the voting is closed.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was suspended at 4.50 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be very brief. i am referring to the strasbourg meeting, and i am asking for clarification on what the presidency said during the meeting in strasbourg about the composition of the ind-dem group. i would inform the presidency that today the members of the delegation of which i am a member and the members of the polish delegation received a summons for a meeting of the ind-dem group at 2 p.m. but we want to know why we have been summoned, since the presidency has informed us that the ind-dem group excluded us by means of a completely incomprehensible and totally irregular procedure. i would just like to say that this meeting does not in the least remedy the irregularities committed by the ind-dem group's leadership against 11 members of the so-called internal minority of the group who, perhaps not coincidentally, also declare that they are totally unaware of the murky events which have brought the leadership to the attention of the european court of auditors. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing another strategy, another book and another set of priorities; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, you know very well that to reach an agreement with the council today at this moment would mean to reduce our ambitions and, of course, those of the citizens, absolutely. we therefore invite you to make a deal and to work for a deal, but on our terms, which should also be your terms. i fully support the agreement on the financial perspective, but not on the council's terms. until we can count on a clear agreement and alliance with the commission on this, discussions like today's will remain a little tentative. secondly, you mentioned a number of issues, and i would like to mention two in particular: one is the issue of immigration and homeland security. you said that the priorities would be schengen, repression, borders, and even if the text mentions them, you did not say anything about it: the problem is one that we have a priority on, which is legal immigration. in his lyrics this element is there, but it is absent in action and language! the fact that the commission is not able to say a word, i say a word, on the subject of the thousand deaths between mauritania and the canary islands and on the question of my country, italy, still having an unknown agreement with libya, hidden from you and this parliament, which has caused the death of a lot of people in that desert, makes it still a little bit of a joke to talk about a common immigration policy. we would like to hear from you on this subject something more than a generic word. thirdly, the energy question. we have a problem, you know that there are differences of opinion on this subject and in particular that we do not think that nuclear energy and renewable energy can be put on the same level, they are two different things. we are aware that nuclear energy exists on this continent, but we cannot consider this to be the energy of the future for our continent, not least because, and this is not a secondary element, we must import uranium anyway, not the sun and the wind! this is an important aspect, at least from a conceptual point of view, and it should not be put on the same level! we must consider very clearly and very concretely that we cannot depend on nuclear energy, that nuclear energy meets only part of our needs today and that it is certainly not an option for the future. in addition, there is still a complete gap in the commission's strategy on energy issues and it is the silence on the transport question: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that there is another overlooked priority in this area, namely that of the cities. cities are not only a laboratory but also a means of using europe, which is now insufficient both in terms of financial support and in terms of major strategies. perhaps it is better to start with the cities rather than with the large infrastructures, which will not even be financed by europe.
i would like to inform my colleagues that the president of the commission, mr barroso, is forced to leave and has therefore asked to be allowed to speak earlier in order to give some answers and clarifications. i give the floor to him and we shall resume the debate immediately after his speech.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in the past few weeks with the suez-enel case and what is happening these days with regard to the e.on deal with endesa, which has been hampered by the spanish government's decree extending the powers of the national energy commission, is a confirmation of a tendency by the states to invade the principles and rules which inspire the union. president barroso said yesterday that he hoped the heads of government would answer the question: the european parliament has a political will to find european solutions to european problems. the commission has examined the energy problem in all its aspects with an almost accurate and appreciable analysis which i do not mention here because it is known to everyone. the joint resolution tabled by the epp, pse, alde and uem expresses the concerns of all european citizens today and proposes the solutions that most citizens and states want. however, the proposal lacks one point: the commission has already made a number of proposals. how many and what are they? in yesterday's statements, president barroso also mentioned the existence of 25 energy markets and 25 different energy policies. in addition to this devastating impact on the desired convergence of eu policies, there is a need to ensure the physical security of europe's energy infrastructure against the risks of natural disasters and terrorist attacks, as well as security against political risks including supply disruptions. the question i ask each and every one of you is: 'can europe be governed by 25 different governments, or is it time for europe's strategy on foreign, security and energy policy to have a single decision-making centre to enable it to respond in a timely and coherent way to the challenges of today's fast-moving modern world? "
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe's dependence on energy is a matter of concern, as the commission's green paper shows. italy is even more dependent on energy, as the enea and istat data show. italy has an energy production capacity of only about 30 million tonnes of oil equivalent, has to import energy from abroad and the growth of dependence has reached about 85% in 2005 against 83% in 2001 and 81% in 1995. in the union, only ireland, luxembourg and portugal have a higher dependency than italy. italy's energy needs are therefore heavily dependent on oil for 45% and gas for 32%. rising energy prices mean that everyone spends more on gasoline, electricity and gas, but environmental concerns also influence the choices made in this area, so that the nuclear option is again relevant. to combat energy dependence, the supply system needs to be made more flexible, energy use needs to be rationalised, energy needs to be distributed locally, whether with small conventional or renewable plants, and research needs to be increased: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the efficiency of the energy sector, such as the introduction of a new energy tax on energy from renewable sources, the introduction of a new energy tax on energy from renewable sources, the introduction of a new energy tax on energy from renewable sources, the introduction of a new energy tax on energy from renewable sources, the introduction of a new energy tax on energy from renewable sources, the introduction of a new energy tax on energy from renewable sources, the introduction of a new energy tax on energy from renewable sources, and finally the relaunch of nuclear energy. these are the issues and challenges of the future, but why do italy and europe continue to give ground to russia and especially to china? gas and oil from iran to china and russia, energy flows and resources on which european companies have invested huge research capital for decades, all wasted in the service of extra-european interests. this means that europe is once again losing a great opportunity for development, security and social well-being, increasing its dependence, not only on energy but also on politics. europe must find the courage to make geopolitical choices in its own interests if it is to give its people a real prospect. this is the revolutionary action beyond the existing directives that europeans expect from the commission and the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy policy has an obvious external dimension, which emerged dramatically from the crisis between russia and ukraine last january. the union, for its part, has in recent years implemented policies such as strategic cooperation with russia, the euro-mediterranean partnership, the neighbourhood policy and the agreement with the gulf cooperation council. these reports involve the major oil and gas producing countries. the energy question has been addressed in a fragmented way: the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, from market liberalisation to security of supply, efficiency and better use of resources. this has not yet been an organic policy. the european council of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow will deal with these issues, but the european governments seem divided between the need to have a common policy and the need to continue to practice bilateral relations dictated by historical, geographical or political reasons. as a european parliament we support the commission's efforts and at the same time we ask for more, but this will not be possible without answering some big questions. do we think we're going to reduce our overall dependence on fossil fuels? how much? can we estimate future needs in this sense? do we have the objective of coordinating demand with other importing countries, especially developing countries? will we present a proposal and a single voice at the next g8 in st petersburg? the answers to these questions require something very close to a european-wide energy plan. the green paper is a first step, much more needs to be done and the european parliament naturally wants to be fully involved in this policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is really time for europe to have a comprehensive and complete energy strategy in which we, commissioner and mr council representative, ask that parliament play a central role. the creation of a single european market and a community policy to that end are essential to this strategy. the liberalization of the individual national markets has now taken place, but this is not enough. in the energy field, some countries have overcome the logic of monopolies, others have not. if we limit ourselves to demanding the completion of individual national markets, we shall end up with an asymmetrical and therefore weak european market: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. second point of order: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one. we expected the council to be more courageous in its choice of objectives and infrastructure, as well as in its research policy. these are the european objectives of a community energy policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in order to establish a common energy policy, the commission must first complete the liberalization of the gas and electricity markets. enough with the asymmetries, enough with the clever ones. the commission must oppose all measures designed to block the free movement of capital, avoiding all forms of distortion of competition caused by the protectionist support of governments for national champions, and its own credibility is at stake, mr commissioner. energy, as we know, is both a factor of production and a consumer good, both essential for the development of our economy and for maintaining a high standard of living. the common energy policy, together with a common foreign policy, are the instruments for pursuing these objectives in an enlarged europe. that's the political point, are we going to be able to do that? europe is divided on two fronts: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. russia is an inevitable supplier on the european energy market, but one cannot be too attached to it. the diversification of energy supply is therefore essential and it is essential to find european solutions in the field of supply. i mean, we have to speak with one voice, can we do that? diversifying supply sources seems to be the answer, as do improvements to energy transmission networks, gas pipelines and ports. it is important to develop an energy dimension in the european union's strategy and security and to increase public and private investment in alternative and renewable resources. will we be able to do that? in short, an energy policy as the material constitution of the new europe is the message we should be giving to our citizens: will we be able to do this?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 2005 was the year of the rhetoric on development and the fight against poverty. under the uk presidency, in various institutional and multilateral fora - european council, g8 summit, millennium summit, 5 september 2005 - the european union has committed to increasing financial commitment to the achievement of the millennium development goals, including through increased development aid. failure to meet these commitments would in fact mean taking a step back from all the international commitments made in recent years to fight poverty and confirming that it was rhetoric. it was a mistake to reduce the 10th edf, even though the money from the 9th edf was not spent, but instead it should be provided for the financial coverage of the major structural reforms required of the acp countries in the context of the epa negotiations. how can these countries - and i remind you that we are talking about countries where the majority of the world's poorest people live - be expected to carry out macroeconomic, national and regional reforms without european financial support? how will they mitigate the social impacts and further reforms that will match the constraints already imposed by the reforms of the international financial institutions? why should they make further reductions in tariffs and therefore further reductions in public funds available, as called for in the epa negotiations, if on the european side the member countries are not prepared to make any effort to increase support for the public budget of the acp countries? in the name of what partnership? i think there is also not much clarity on the european union's actual involvement in the development finance +5 process and on what exactly the dimension of development finance is in the context of the epa negotiations. how can we be true to our commitments if we reduce the european development budget? i also think that, in view of the international geopolitical situation, it would be strategically more far-sighted for us, for the european union, to invest today in a relationship of mutual political support with the poorest countries, and thus to strengthen the eu-acp partnership.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union, the world's largest donor, has a duty to honour the commitments it made several times in 2000 when the millennium development goals were set, and more recently in the council and the g8 in 2005. mr president, the reduction in the proposed edf allocation is not a positive sign for our partners in the world, particularly the acp countries, at a time when it is clear that the millennium development goals are far from being achieved. globalisation is daily posing new and difficult challenges to developing countries. in addition to the size of the budget, if our funds are to be really effective in fighting poverty, we must also focus on transparency, coherence with other union policies, the performance of the beneficiaries and, above all, the integrated participation of the governments concerned and the coordination of different instruments, both at european level and in the development policies undertaken by the various member states individually, in order to streamline administrative practices which still take up too large a part of overall expenditure. it is essential that the council agrees to allocate the funds necessary to meet the commitments made and that the commission, also on the basis of the recommendations received by the court of auditors in september 2005, commits itself to putting in place a transparent, efficient and effective system for the careful management of these funds.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the exclusion of the polish delegation and the northern league from the ind-dem group is a scandal, carried out through an illegal procedure from a to z, of a soviet type. there is a letter to the president of the european parliament from the then president of the bureau of the ind-dem, mr piotrowski. we want to know from the president when an official response to this complaint will be given. we are ready to go to the european court of justice, and meanwhile those who, by soviet procedure, excluded us from this group with an extraction, reminiscent of communism, are being investigated by the court of auditors for the mistakes made in the use of funds, mistakes which we and our friends and colleagues in the polish delegation have always opposed in the name of the principles of transparency. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mrs luisa morgantini, on behalf of the committee on development, on the development impact of economic partnership agreements (2005/2162 ((ini)) (a6-0053/2006).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, "you'll eat when you're competitive" is the slogan of a poster: in the background, a skinny african boy. the phrase is emphatic, but it does sound as if the european union is, and this is an understatement, overestimating the effectiveness of trade in fighting poverty. the report under discussion today is a very weak one, as it contained some points in which the effects of liberalization on the economies of the developing countries were called into question. several econometric studies, a report by christian aid, sandra polanski's winners and losers study, published last week, have shown that many developing countries, especially in sub-saharan africa, would be better off today if we had not introduced wild liberalization measures. polanski's study, which analyses the winners and losers of the liberalizations launched with the doha cycle, confirms data that had already been disseminated by unctad and undp and reaches some conclusions: developing countries are likely to be the losers, as they lack the agricultural and industrial capacity to compete with the rich countries; the winners will be the rich countries: the united states, europe and japan, but also china. free trade will produce modest gains globally, partly because the adjustment costs that countries face when engaging in the liberalization process promoted by the industrialized countries may outweigh the benefits. it is not that we are against trade, but that the opening up of markets can be an effective tool in the fight against poverty, but like any tool it must be used with great caution. first of all, the countries must be enabled to meet their own internal needs by strengthening their productive capacity, in particular in the light of internal food sovereignty objectives, and then it must be possible to cope with competition and supply constraints by providing adequate resources which are not present at present in the financial perspectives. secondly, we must work on the basis of realistic timetables, taking into account the time required for structural adjustment, and thirdly, we must limit the opening of the market, including mechanisms to suspend the process of liberalization if necessary and giving the acp countries the opportunity to protect their nascent and strategic industries. we have used this criterion ourselves for the last century, and some people are actually still trying to use it today. these principles are almost present in the report, partly because these are the demands of the acp countries, they are the ones who formulate them. because an effective principle of partnership requires that we take account of the demands of our partners, especially if they are justified, especially if they are supported by civil society in europe and the acp countries. the economic partnership agreements are also, and above all, because they are based on the legal and institutional framework of the cotonou agreement, which was signed by the european union, and their ultimate objective is development and the fight against poverty. the same principle of partnership does not give us the right to impose agreements. i believe that they should do so and one of the main points of the report is the request to the commission to study immediately the alternatives so that the acp countries can, after assessing the options, choose whether to sign these agreements or not. the reciprocity with which liberalization is being demanded means applying equal laws to persons who are not economically and developmentally equal. that does not bring equality and democracy at all. thinking of development in terms of just the increase in gross domestic product in a country is very reductive. development is difficult to define, but when my report asks the commission to protect the water, health and education sectors from liberalisation, it is essentially about rights that must be guaranteed, as when the cape town declaration is cited, the acp-eu joint assembly also has the competence to set development indicators to assess the achievement of results and trade negotiations, calling for social and environmental indicators such as the creation of decent work, health, education, gender equality to be included. it is about rights, the same rights for which we in europe have fought, the same values on which the european union is founded. the european parliament cannot wish to erase these values. we are at a crucial moment in the fight against poverty, and we must also respond to the objectives we have set ourselves.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs morgantini for her excellent work. in a society now dominated by a globalised economic market, the promotion of development cooperation is a duty for the community institutions, in a world context in which three billion people live on less than two dollars a day and over one billion survive on one dollar. the community's policy on the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity, and the community's policy on the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the union's cooperation policies must include priorities aimed at transforming the internal processes in these countries, promoting a stable, open and democratic political climate and an increase in welfare. in this context, it can be said that the economic partnership agreements represent an appropriate means of strengthening and implementing acp-eu trade relations. we must also stress another point: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. we must always remember that effective integration and economic growth, if it is to succeed and have a positive impact on the social fabric of developing countries, must necessarily be accompanied by an improvement in the general living conditions of the population. in this context, a precise, concrete and consistent commitment is needed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the morgantini report is an important attempt to limit the damage caused by the epas. do you really think that to reduce and eradicate hunger and poverty you need a free trade agreement? consider the case of burundi: the theoretical abolition of tariffs, as envisaged by the epas, would allow the european union to gain a share of trade of usd 12.4 million, which burundi would lose, after having already calculated the gain of local consumers. this is shown by a study by the economic commission for africa, a un organization, which also highlighted that the continent already has a very high share of wealth owned by residents abroad, more than any other region in the world: that's a whopping 39%. the idea that further expansion of liberalism can produce wealth in those areas is also refuted by the data on subsidies. in nigeria, the cheapest meat is german and english, and in senegal, 52,000 tons of onions exported from the netherlands in 2005 alone have put farmers in a very difficult situation. the epas were originally conceived in the framework of the cotonou agreement, which specifically stipulates the fight against poverty and social development, but instead have become something that does not promote social development, but further poverty.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the commissioner said a short while ago, in september 2005 the commission presented its first annual report on the state of play of european contract law and the revision of the acquis communautaire. one of the measures envisaged is the creation, as the rapporteur has pointed out, of a common framework for community contract law. the commission considers that the scope of the common reference framework may include the possibility for national legislators to use it in areas not covered by community law. the existing legal framework, which is mainly concerned with consumer protection, needs to be improved and supplemented by a set of common principles which provide a reliable but flexible reference point for citizens and legal practitioners. the rapporteur, mr lehne, who has done valuable and important work in the committee, and who has this evening made his observations on a measure of historic importance, has aimed his report at drawing up a strategic outlook for the future work of the commission, naturally involving and strongly calling for the involvement of the european parliament. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament's right to vote is respected. it is a historic event, even beyond the achievements that can be achieved, because until now community harmonization has been achieved in the narrower or wider fields of the directives on this subject: the consumer contract, to which the directives on the application of electronic and information technologies are added. the tasks are no longer limited to the coordination of existing legislation, but will be extended to the future, to uniform definitions of the terms indicated in the directives, to the identification of common principles in the field of contracts which will reduce the considerable differences. it's a process of regulation and knowledge that can go beyond the existing law to form a modern code: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the treaty. the aim is to examine the directives in conflict with the implementing provisions of the member states and to establish a kind of common basis for community contract law. i would like to conclude by saying that the process of convergence of private law, and in particular of european contract law, is a reality that is being promoted both by community law and by the development of comparative studies. i support the primary role of civil law: the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, i am very grateful indeed for this very unanimous, very strong and impressive support for our efforts and also for the efforts of the commission. we all think in the same direction, and the point now is to find effective ways to hold the regime responsible for the situation, for the way the elections have gone, and to support those who want to change it. we're in agreement here. we are of course going to put into practice many of the suggestions made here. i cannot go into all the points, but i would like to touch on those which i find particularly interesting. mr klich reminded us that alexander milinkevich was received here in parliament. i would remind you that alexander milinkevich was also received in the council - after all, there were 14 foreign ministers present at this debate, which took place in the framework of a council meeting, and we also made it very clear there how much we admire and support the opposition for its courage. several speakers here have mentioned restrictive measures, sanctions. that's what this is about. there have been visa restrictions in the past and now we are going to try to extend these restrictive measures. mrs schroedter said that all those responsible should be subject to a visa ban. that's what this is about. that is why, although we have of course thought about scenarios beforehand, we are only now able to take concrete measures, because we now know exactly - and a precise analysis is still needed - who is responsible for the situation in belarus and who should be on this list of visa restrictions. at the same time -- and this has been said by many speakers -- we have to find ways to support the people who want to travel abroad, who want to come to us, who want to educate themselves, who want to experience how democracy works. i am also very grateful to mr kovács for his very specific comments on the measures planned by the commission, because here too it will be a question of the commission, which has our full support, developing credible and coherent programmes. intelligent sanctions were mentioned. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the near future. the eu observers who were not admitted were also mentioned. that is something we very much regret. i would point out that the presidency statement on the situation in belarus, published yesterday, expressly regretted that eu observers, including representatives of the european parliament, had not been allowed in. this only shows how afraid they are to let free parliamentarians into the country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr kamiński has mentioned the role of the free media, which plays a very important role. that's what it's all about. we all know from the past - and i, as an austrian, can judge this particularly well - what an important role free radio and free television played for our neighbours, for hungary and czechoslovakia at that time. in the same way today, we need to make sure that those who are interested have the opportunity to receive news that is free from censorship and control. we will try to do that.
member of the commission. madam president, the european union is certainly a community of shared values, a community of democratic countries. consequently, we have to make it explicitly clear that we do not accept the repressive regime of president lukashenko; the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms; the violation of the election campaign rights of the registered opposition candidates and the arrest of members of the opposition and peaceful demonstrators. policy declarations are important, but they are certainly not enough. we therefore have to introduce and maintain sanctions that clearly reflect our position. we should avoid economic sanctions at large that would hit the population. our sanctions should be precisely targeted against those responsible for the fraudulent elections and for the survival of the repressive regime in belarus. such sanctions could include, for example, the extension of the visa ban or the freezing of assets in the member states. parallel to the sanctions and the increase of support to civil society and the democratic forces in the country, we have to encourage and facilitate people-to-people contacts by, for instance, waiving visa fees on an ad hoc basis. we also have to support ngos. we are aware of the problem that, according to our rules, support can only be granted to officially registered ngos, but the commission has found a solution to this. we now agree to fund ngos which are registered outside belarus, but which work for the benefit of the country and its people. the debate here was quite encouraging. it shows that members of the european parliament, the presidency – i.e. the member states – and the commission are following the same line. by following the same line and working in close cooperation, we will finally promote democratic changes in belarus.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the new psi i express my full support for the protests against the electoral fraud in the belarusian elections which saw the disputed re-election of president lukashenko. i confirm our full solidarity with the protesters in minsk: thousands of young people have been peacefully in the streets for days and, amidst a thousand difficulties, they are waging a democratic battle to build a different and better tomorrow for their land. the aspirations of the new belarus are far from the aims of europe's last tyrant, alexander lukashenko, who has cheated in elections, threatened the opposition in the streets and used prison as in stalin's time. we stand with the isolated, cold-blooded, beaten and humiliated belarusian dissidents, who are fighting to reclaim a future of freedom and justice in this corner of the ussr. the clock of history must be turned back in minsk as well.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not demographic change is perhaps the biggest challenge, next to climate change. there are many reasons why our society has fewer and fewer young people and therefore fewer and fewer futures. i shall only take one point from this extremely complex subject: maternity pensions. the achievements of mothers, especially those with several children, are far too little recognized. one of the main problems is that most mothers who are unable or unwilling to work for reasons of childcare and education are at a clear disadvantage first in their careers and then in old age. the care and education of children should be given at least the same importance in our prosperous society as activities in production and services and should therefore be fully recognised for the pension biography. the simplest and most comprehensive solution would be an unconditional basic income for all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. for me, the issues i want to highlight are the two big challenges we face: the first is that of an ageing world, and we want to ensure that it has the best possible and dignified old age, and at the same time no more births. we want our continent to be brought back into line with the expectations of women and our countries. two policies are needed to meet the first challenge: the first is to abolish any disincentive to prolong working life, on the one hand, and thus to allow all policies designed to enable older people to remain as long as possible directly involved in the world of work, and the other is to offer older people the possibility of remaining as long as possible within their community. all social policies must be geared to this objective: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the work of the european social fund. as far as the birth rate is concerned, i believe that as always in life, the facts will help. it should be noted that in recent years, an interesting example being france, it is precisely the countries which have made a new taxation a smart policy that have then achieved good results. so new taxation, greater job opportunities for women, the possibility of entering the world of work and certainly a new and different quality of service.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would much prefer to keep the original text because of course words often change the meaning. i thank mr martinez for the amendment and accept it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to explain why i voted in favour of jo leinen's report on the regulation of european political parties and their funding. when i shout in italy "retirees on the move!" all the pensioners follow me, including the young along with the pensioners, because they believe in the party of retirees of which i am the leader. i am sure that if i shouted in the 25 languages of the european union 'retirees, attack!' pensioners in the other 24 member states of the european union would also follow me, because the european political party is a party that goes to the heart of the people. i am sure and certain that we shall create europe when we have created the european parties, just as the party of retired persons is creating the party of retired persons. retired men to the attack!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before i took the plane yesterday to brussels today, i shouted, as i always do, 'retirees, attack!' i turned around and saw that i was followed by old and young because in the party of retired people, we all work together, both old and young. the report by mr philip bushill matthews, whom i thank for his usual commitment, rightly speaks of solidarity between the generations. mr president, i have been asked by everyone, young and old, and i ask myself the same question: is it the elderly who should give to the young or is it not the young who should give to the elderly? surely it is the elderly who, after having given their whole lives to society and to everyone, even as elderly should give their pension to the young. i think that is what the governments of the 25 member states of the european union would like, but are we really sure that this is the best thing to do? would it not be better to finally give the elderly the recognition they deserve from the young? long live the pensioners!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a trend of the grand coalition, but we too agree with the postponement of the vote for a very simple reason: we think that the combination, so to speak, of these relationships is not yet mature. so it is all very well to discuss it and we shall vote on it, if the house so decides, in may.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative in this matter and has been able to put forward a number of proposals. we all need to be aware and sensitive about this issue. rumors are one thing, facts are another. the immigration situation in europe is certainly neither pleasant nor pleasant nor adequate. it is not appropriate for the year 2006, for the european union and its principles, for the treaties and for the political responsibilities which we, as the european parliament, have towards the peoples of europe. the commission is going around the problem: i've heard of initiatives worth €25,000 or €120,000 before: i would like to inform you, commissioner, that malta spends €1 000 000 per year on this problem. since 2002, that is, since the pre-accession period, this country has seen an increase in the rate of immigration and now has as many as 2000 more people who have nowhere to go. the 2000 people in malta could be equivalent to 400,000 people in the home jails of germany, or even 300,000 people in the home jails of italy, france and the united kingdom. to look after immigrants, malta employs 10% of its police force, as if italy employed 30,000 people or germany 40,000 people, or all the law enforcement agencies put together. that is not possible. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we cannot abandon our countries, and, above all, we cannot abandon malta in the middle of the sea. because, in fact, this country is the southernmost frontier of europe. it's the frontier of europe. from this point of view malta cannot be considered an autonomous state. the european union must take all appropriate steps in this regard. i would ask you, commissioner, to convene an internal affairs council in malta, in the presence of the committee on civil liberties, as soon as possible. malta is currently experiencing situations of considerable gravity: it has 2000 people who don't know where to move, who can only be sent to gozo, and that would mean making an already very serious situation worse. we are putting the maltese people in a position to repent - even if they don't want to do so because they are a strongly europeanist country - of what they have done. in malta xenophobia is beginning to occur, and this is a very serious matter. as a parliament, we have a duty to assume political responsibility. i urge the council to move quickly and revise the dublin treaty. malta must be a transit country. today people don't want to go to malta to stay, people pass through and stop in malta just to save themselves. i invite you all to stand in solidarity with malta. the president of malta will be here the day after tomorrow, and i am very pleased about that. i hope that this parliament will give all the solidarity it needs to this great, ancient and noble nation that is suffering because of us.
i would also like to thank my colleagues on the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs for having appointed me and asked me to be the rapporteur for this visit to malta. as rapporteur, i can only say that the situation in immigration detention centres in malta is simply appalling: a veritable dante's inferno where even the most basic rights are denied. we visited three detention centers where we found conditions that were absolutely inhuman and degrading, unworthy of a civilized country: unacceptable sanitary conditions, promiscuity, pregnant women detained until their fourth month, unseemly food and cold showers, toilets without doors, garbage and degradation as a side dish. maltese law is abhorrent: it provides for 18 months of administrative detention for citizens who have committed no crime. i think that's too much! i also believe that the treatment of asylum seekers is contrary to the geneva convention and the european asylum directives. migrants are not given information and their asylum practices are not analysed until 8-9 months. refugees from war zones, particularly darfur, are also refused asylum in malta. i was struck by a man who had a sign that said, the european union is not a party to the conflict. europe cannot remain silent in the face of this mess and the visits of our committee to the temporary accommodation centres in europe make us believe that there must be a radical change in the policy of welcoming migrants. firstly, we must widen the legal channels of entry, make the matter a community matter and amend the dublin agreements, and finally close all administrative detention centres on european territory. these are legally unacceptable places where all human rights are violated.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs laperrouze for her work on the european energy interconnection networks. i fully agree with your position, which deplores the ever-present risk of a return to national positions, whereas much more determined action must be taken to build strong, truly european networks for both electricity and gas. only at this level can the energy resource be managed in the best way: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used to the full, and that the community's energy resources are used to the full. only at this level can we ensure real competition on the european market between european samples, not national samples. the recent drop in supplies, at a time of great demand for gas, has shown that both the interconnection of systems that were originally national and the effective integration of storage infrastructure - including the networking of exploited gas fields that are running out - are absolutely essential for solidarity between countries. this is an essential solidarity, which has already been effectively emphasized in the green paper. this also means that we need a reference point that can act at european level, a coordinator that can ensure a real market for both gas and electricity and that guarantees security of supply and the optimal use of resources at all times. the construction of a truly european network is an essential necessity. we therefore urge the council, the whole union and all the institutions to ensure that this is made possible, in the interests of the member states and the union as a whole.
member of the commission. mr president, i sincerely hope you will not cut me off. let me say that i am very happy with the statements of nearly everybody in this debate, especially the remarks that have been made about this portfolio. competition policy is a challenge; indeed it is an instrument, a motor for achieving the lisbon agenda. i could not agree more with mr de rossa and mrs van den burg that we must deliver, within the framework of europe, sustainable and full employment and social welfare; but at the end of the day we must also deliver more economic growth and more and better quality jobs. turning now to a couple of details about competition policy, it was rightly mentioned that cartels are absolutely unacceptable and we must combat them. where there is a near-monopoly, we have to realise that this does not benefit the consumer. people may argue that in the short term it is a pleasing situation, but i can assure you that a monopoly or near-monopoly will not be very keen to spend money in areas like research or innovation. yet we badly need that type of investment. why? because we have to compete on the global stage, because we need to be aware that competitors from outside europe are investing in depth in research, in innovation, and in their competitiveness. so, mr evans rightly referred to the need for fair treatment, for a bilateral but not unbalanced approach: if we are behaving ourselves, the others should behave as well. it is a question of the competitiveness of europe. i really appreciate your interest in competition policy. the commission informs you of all the major policy initiatives in this area and, of course, i pay attention to all the opinions of parliament. we may not agree completely at every moment, on every subject, every dossier; i do not agree with a couple of remarks that were made this evening because the way they were put does not reflect the truth and is not realistic. but i will come back to that in more detail. i have listened carefully to the views expressed by the rapporteur, by the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and by all other members. i would like to add a few words in response to specific issues. on international cooperation, i think that in a global market competition is very important and the competition authorities need to be in line. regarding a european network, i am really impressed by the european competition network and those concerned are doing an extremely good job. we can still learn from each other and we still need to realise that the time has passed for national policy. at the end of the day we have one internal market. it is about two-way traffic. mr mccreevy and i are buddies and we need to tackle all the barriers that have to be tackled. in relation to microsoft, which was touched upon by a couple of members, the commission is actively pursuing the implementation of the march 2004 decision. i accept, of course, remarks that do not agree with my line, but to say that we are not transparent, that we are not listening to all the questions and remarks, is not the truth. since march 2004, there has been a decision, which has rightly been mentioned and discussed; i have done so myself with the head of microsoft. with regard to professor neil barrett, a very highly respected advisor to the commission, he was indeed appointed by the commission, but the list he headed came from microsoft. he is very well-known for his knowledge and independence and to put it in quite clear language, he is the bridge between microsoft and the commission. he is indeed the advisor. but when we took the decision in december 2005, the statement of objections – which included a preliminary finding that microsoft had not delivered what it had promised, that its obligation under the march 2004 decision did not take the form we were expecting – was not made public because of issues relating to certain procedures, protectionism and the legitimate interest of all parties. the hearing was an opportunity to have what i hope was a fruitful debate and every participant in it was given the floor. this is not only about microsoft; there are complainants elsewhere and there are a couple of other really interesting american companies. so microsoft is not the only interesting company from the united states: there are a couple of other interesting companies that have lodged complaints with me. therefore, without a doubt, i had to act and to react. i hope that will clarify the situation when we come to discuss what was talked about last thursday and friday. another hearing – the court hearing – will take place in luxembourg on 24-28 april 2006. once we have discussed what was talked about last week, we will come to a conclusion as soon as possible. mrs berès mentioned mittal’s bid for arcelor. she should read it and she promised me she would, so let me be precise: the announcement of mittal’s bid for arcelor has attracted a great deal of attention not only in the media but also in some european capitals. the operation has not yet been formally notified to the commission. if and when it is, the commission will examine it very carefully and impartially and will conduct a wide-ranging investigation to assess its possible impact on the steel industry in europe. it is the responsibility of the commission, the commissioner and the services involved always to look very carefully and impartially at all cases. size and nationality in itself is not a factor in making our decisions. the question is whether a decision can be taken and whether things can be done in the way requested by the parties, or whether there should be remedies. we will be looking at that. let me turn to the merger regulation and competence for cases under the two-thirds rule, which a couple of members mentioned. at the moment we are asking the member states for information. once we have received that information we will have a debate and dialogue with those member states and will try to reach conclusions. the rules and decisions were made in the 1980s and were right for that time, but since then, fortunately, the internal market has developed. i am aware that the internal market is not yet complete, we still have quite a lot of work to do and the four main freedoms still need to be achieved. at that time the two-thirds rule was the correct instrument, but now we have to consider whether it is still appropriate in that area. in certain sectors we need to ensure a balance and equal treatment, and there should be transparency regardless of the country in which a merger takes place. brussels must ensure equal treatment, whatever the background to a merger might be. mr hökmark and mrs ferreira raised the subject of mergers in the internal market. we are all aware that concerns have been expressed about the alleged upsurge of protectionism. it should be combated. i can understand it just a little, but it is not allowed and should not be tolerated. we should explain to those concerned that it is not in line with the decision we took on one internal market, one europe, in which we are and will be in a better position to compete with the outside world. the commission has significant powers under the treaty to act as an independent and impartial referee to ensure that member states fully respect the internal market rules and do not create unlawful obstacles to cross-border mergers. i can assure you that the commission is firmly committed both to using these powers and to corporate restructuring in europe. for that we need a united europe. it was rightly said that we must apply the rules of the game in the same way whether the team is playing at home or abroad. we have rules to respect and we have decisions to respect – the decisions taken in the past. we have to implement those decisions: one internal market and the lisbon agenda. nearly all of you agreed that we should fight for that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the agenda for the joint debate is the following:- report by mr david hammerstein mintz, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the special report of the european ombudsman following the draft recommendation to the council of the european union on complaint no 2395/2003/gg on the opening to the public of the deliberations of the council in its capacity as legislator [2005/2243 (ini) ] (a6-0056/2006) and - report by mr michael cashman, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, containing recommendations to the commission on access to texts of the institutions (2004/2125 (ini) (a6-0052/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr georgios papastamkos, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the evaluation of the doha round following the wto ministerial conference in hong kong [2005/2247(ini] (a6-0051/2006).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the doha round of negotiations has been reduced to a classic negotiation to increase liberalization for the large economic groups and as such represents a failure. despite the development round, it is the developing countries that will be the biggest losers, as a report commissioned by the world bank itself to an independent group has shown. furthermore, the continued existence of european agricultural export subsidies and us cotton subsidies until 2013 will cause further social disaster in developing countries. the demand from the rich nations for a cancellation or a sharp reduction in the pvs tariffs will further accentuate the negative trend for those regions. in addition, the possibility of maintaining import tariffs of 3% on products currently protected will allow, for example, the usa to protect the tariff protection of as many as 420 products, and it is very easy to imagine that among the products protected in extremis will be included precisely those of greatest interest to the poorest countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the trips agreement is respected. finally, i believe that the report does not emphasize these aspects, nor does it show that the wto is in fact a failed promise of the necessary multilateralism to build a better distribution of wealth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. for ten years the wto has been monitoring the complex complexities of international trade. such exchanges are growing exponentially in number and quality. the development of a strong and homogeneous regulatory framework, which protects transparency and reduces inequalities, is therefore essential. the multilateral regime is the only form of negotiation which is likely to ensure a balanced approach among all members. i hope, therefore, that europe will defend this position in the new negotiations and work actively to conclude the agreements by 2006, as a further failure would weaken the whole system with serious consequences, especially for the developing countries. it is the latter that must be looked at above all, and the abandonment of export subsidies by the industrialized countries is a major step in this direction. of course, for such an initiative to be successful, it is important that it be appropriately supported and re-proposed by the other wto members. in the interests of the development of the least developed countries, it is also important to ensure that the opening up of other sectors to the market, such as services, does not irreparably damage the economic and social structure of these countries and in particular that the provision of public services is not subject to the rules of competition and commercial pressure from northern companies. finally, however, i urge the commission to ensure the protection of our production, especially in those sectors where the burden of counterfeiting and illegal imports is becoming unbearable for thousands of industries. the commission must insist on the strict application of the rules in force against such phenomena.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
i thank the commission for having taken account of the position of this parliament, which democratically reflects the needs of the majority of european citizens. i regret that certain social services continue to be excluded from the directive: services such as social housing and child and family support cannot be subject to competition laws, but must look solely at the interests of the beneficiaries. i hope, therefore, that the social services directive which the commission announced at the end of april will take due account of these needs. i also welcome the abolition of the country of origin principle and the drafting of the new document on the posting of workers. i think that social dumping must be prevented by a careful examination of the rules of the market, especially as regards wages and working conditions. it is important to work towards competition improving the quality of work for the benefit of workers and consumers. the ultimate objective of the european union is not to increase the volume of business but to create a competitive society at the service of its citizens, a society which contributes to raising the standard of living in all respects of those who live in it.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly pleased to be speaking today, not as the usual representative of my group, but as the rapporteur for the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, which represents a larger majority. as such, i would like to make a few points about this report, the main purpose of which is to stress that the question of the application of community law is as much an important part of the better regulation dossier as the other issues we will be discussing this afternoon. the commission's report is very clear on this point. there are very serious problems, particularly in environmental legislation, but also in legislation relating to the internal market, and the responsibility is, needless to say, primarily with the member states. the responsibility for non-application, however, is also due to a procedure which, being provided for in the treaties, is not easy to improve. this is a slow procedure with relatively insufficient penalties: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. i would like to know whether you consider this question of the application of community law to be a priority for the commission or not. i do not think that is the case from the point of view of communication, because, as we know, the issue of withdrawal and amendment of directives is given more priority than their proper application. i believe that there are basically two schools of thought in the commission: one that says: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. "we try instead to apply the rules as they are, not in a rigid way, but in a positive way, taking into account procedures that are as fast and lawful as possible". i would like to give a few examples: we believe that a number of decisions taken by the commission in connection with the opening of certain procedures, such as those on gmos in austria, were particularly swift and particularly well done, whereas, on the other hand, as regards france and its failure to apply the natura 2000 directive, we have been waiting for three years for the commission to take action under article 228, or the article on fines, after the ruling of the court of justice. similarly, there are interesting situations with regard to the right of citizens to reimbursement of their medical expenses. we know that this issue, which is of great importance to the citizens themselves, is unresolved because it is a politically complicated problem to deal with. at the same time, article 228 was invoked in only two cases: in the case of the greek landfills, which was suspended after a very short time, and in the case of the spanish bathing waters, which was withdrawn at the last minute because of a matter which the commission itself recognises as being quite doubtful from a legal point of view. what response do we give or what proposals do we put forward to resolve a situation where we think the commission should act in a more transparent way? first of all, we believe that there should be better evaluation and better transparency in the way the law is applied. i think it is important that the commission should send us its compliance studies on the application of the law, which we have unfortunately not been able to do. secondly, i think it is very important to have a transfer of resources from all those who will no longer be legislators to those who will be enforcers. we do not agree, for example, with the idea that this transfer should be made to those who will be dealing with impact assessments, which is something that is being discussed in the commission at the moment, and thirdly - and this concerns us - we believe that the european parliament should intervene much more precisely on the subject of the application of community law, not to touch the commission's powers - i know that this is a very worrying subject for the members of this institution - but, on the contrary, to get, as the committee on the environment and other committees do, a more precise idea of what is happening. i believe that the name and shame policy, also in the application of community law, is very useful and that the commission, perhaps, should help us to apply it more decisively.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to say to president barroso that what has been decided today on energy shows that when you want to, you can and therefore we 'would like' you to 'can' in a greater number of cases, particularly on environmental, consumer and health policy issues; but that's the obvious message. mr winkler, i note with regret that you have not said a word about the question of the application of the law, although this issue concerns the member states above all. i also think it would be interesting to hear the council's view on the possibility of reopening the negotiations on the better regulation agreement for the enforcement part, which had previously failed miserably. i am also concerned about the question of impact assessment, because i do not hide my concern that this subject is becoming a kind of myth, a magic word which should make it the best legislation in itself, based on scientific and neutral sources. i am personally sceptical about this and, indeed, concerned about the extent to which this issue is being taken up. firstly, because some of the proposals in the reports, in particular that of mr mccarthy, but not only, introduce elements of bureaucracy which are very complicated to manage, especially for the commission. this is an element of doubt which makes my group say that it is fortunate that we have postponed the vote, because then we will have the opportunity to review the situation in order to reach an agreement. in addition, the elements which are considered to be key, and which everyone is talking about, for an impact assessment, including administrative costs, excessive bureaucracy, excessive real or assumed costs for businesses, are themselves a political choice. president barroso and commissioner verheugen, for example: it took a letter from unice to drastically scale back the air strategy, despite a two million euro impact assessment, which said that the costs were not only for businesses, but also for health. so, in the end, impact assessment is also a political choice and therefore i would urge that it not be made so priority and completely overstated compared to the other elements of the law. i would like to say one last word on the question of co-regulation and self-regulation. i would like the commission to make an analysis to establish how these procedures have worked because, according to our analysis, they have not worked, as the ability of firms and companies to comply with these self-regulatory agreements has been found to be quite unsatisfactory by the firms themselves.
member of the commission. mr president, it is one year since we proposed this important programme to promote european citizenship. tomorrow you will vote on the report, which reflects a lot of work since that time, and it is an important step towards the adoption of the new generation of programmes. i should like to thank all the listed committees, in particular the committee on culture and education and its rapporteur mr takkula for his efforts, combining determination and modernisation. the report reflects this balance and shows that the committee shares the concerns of the commission about the necessity to promote the active participation of citizens in the construction of a common europe. the proposal is based on the conviction that the strengthening of active citizenship at european level is closely linked to the development of a sense of belonging to the european union and of a european identity, which is complementary to other identities: national, regional and local. common values, history, and culture with all its diversity will therefore be the building blocks of the programme. the parliamentary committee adopted several amendments that enrich our proposal with references to european values. i note with pleasure that the report followed the commission's proposal on the various actions of this programme, ensuring continuity of activities that proved to be successful and the introduction of innovative projects and methods for citizens' participation. i appreciate that the report proposes the integration of a new, fourth action providing support for memorials to victims of nazi and stalinist regimes, as agreed by the european parliament, council and commission in november. i should like to come now to the question of designated beneficiaries. the commission has proposed a limited list of six designated bodies because of their uniqueness in the european arena. three of them celebrate the memory or continue the work of the founding fathers, while the other three are pan-european umbrella organisations. all of them have been supported for many years by the european institutions. all of them contribute to the objectives of this programme. i appreciate the fact that the committee shared our philosophy and confirmed the choices. it proposed adding one more organisation: the maison de l'europe. all the previously mentioned characteristics apply to this organisation. this pan-european network of local organisations is aimed at engaging citizens in the construction of europe. i am therefore pleased to say that the commission could support this amendment, provided that it does not mean other organisations will be eligible for this designation. finally, i should like to give my thoughts on the issue of volunteering. this was mentioned in the proposal as an example of the field of interest of this programme. an amendment by the committee proposed deleting this reference. we believe, however, that volunteering is a powerful tool for developing social cohesion and commitment towards society and that it therefore deserves special attention within the programme. those were, in brief, the main points to which i wanted to draw your attention. you will have noticed that our views converge on many points. let me emphasise the importance of continuing our constructive cooperation, despite the current uncertainties about the financial questions connected to this programme. in the interest of citizens, we should make every possible effort to reach an agreement as soon as possible in order to prepare for the implementation of this programme by january 2007. your vote will send an important signal to the european citizens, as another important step is taken towards a europe for citizens.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of citizenship is a central point for the relaunch of the political project of the european union. there are no shortcuts to reviving europe's role on a global scale, but we must build a real constituent process, avoiding attempts to resurrect a constitutional treaty that is already dead and has been cancelled by the popular will. it is necessary to build an intercultural society, enhancing europe's mestizo identity and, above all, promoting the integration of migrants and the extension of citizenship rights. for this reason we also believe that european citizenship should be a concept closely linked to residence, with the explicit aim of promoting inclusion. in this connection, we believe that the citizens for europe programme can be a useful and valuable instrument for promoting the rights of european citizenship, rights which should be increasingly left to national authorities. the actions of the programme are shared, and i am referring in particular to the twinning projects between cities and to the european active memory. but i think we need to be clear on this point. the 20th century was a century of wars and authoritarian regimes, and many were victims of mass deportations and exterminations by the nazi and stalinist regimes. however, the history of the 20th century in europe cannot be commemorated without remembering the victims of fascist regimes: in italy for 20 years the fascists have deprived men and women of their freedom and there are many links between the italian regime and nazism. only recently have spain, portugal and greece regained democracy and freedom. anti-fascism is a european value and cannot be confined to a national event, and that is why we think it is useful to remember the victims of fascism today to prevent similar events from happening again. we are still seeing neo-fascist groups in europe today, which are fed by xenophobia, homophobia, islamophobia and anti-semitism. it would be tragic and dangerous for the promotion of citizenship and the common european identity to delete the victims of such authoritarian regimes from the programme. we therefore hope that amendments nos 62 and 63 will be adopted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new socialist party and i speak this time also as mayor of a beautiful town north of rome. as a first citizen, i have undertaken many activities to promote european identity, encouraging participation and cooperation between citizens, especially through cultural twinning and exchanges, which have seen young people and students as the main protagonists, but not only. i believe that citizens who are confronted on a daily basis with problems that are often far removed from those faced in this house need tangible proof that there is a common base of values for all 450 million europeans. only if this feeling is strong can we hope to bring citizens closer to the institutions. i therefore support the commission's proposal and all the measures proposed, especially those which promote the european values of democracy, freedom and respect for human rights: i think they're valid and shareable. i therefore hope that this project will be carried out with the greatest possible institutional and economic support. however, other concomitant actions are needed: the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which will be presented to the european parliament in the autumn. i also believe that any action taken to promote what is called 'european citizenship' will be in vain if we do not take proper account of the needs, demands and expectations of civil society in the forthcoming debates. getting citizens to feel that they are actually involved in the many, many great challenges that still lie ahead of us is perhaps the most concrete way of creating a solid common foundation on which to build our future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr takkula on his excellent work and his excellent report, and i first of all welcome his proposal to change the title of the programme from 'citizens for europe' to 'europe for citizens'. this reversal of terms encompasses the whole meaning of culture, which should henceforth inspire community action, the instrument and not the end of the european peoples for the realization of their aspirations. i am pleased that, as a sign of greater concern for citizens and a renewed sensitivity to the question of culture and european identity, the reports by mr hammerstein mintz on the opening of council meetings to the public, mr cashman on access to documents of the institutions and mr prets on the european capitals of culture are also on the agenda of this plenary session. we have therefore the opportunity, and i would say the duty, to make this europe more transparent, more democratic, more understandable and therefore more shared. at a difficult time in the process of european construction such as the one we are living through today, when nationalist and disintegrating tendencies seem to be gaining new legitimacy, the spread of mutual knowledge of our different cultures is undoubtedly a fundamental instrument of social integration, of the exaltation of the values we share, and is a key element in the fight against racism and xenophobia. in conclusion, for these reasons i think it is important to provide this programme with more substantial and adequate financial resources. mr president, the sense of belonging, the feeling of being european, must also be felt by the citizens of europe, who no longer want to suffer europe, but want to make it.
developing a european identity, improving mutual understanding and integration, and enhancing diversity through dialogue are fundamental objectives for consolidating the european union. the unity of europe cannot be a vertical operation but the result of the responsibility of each person. the actors must be families, social groups, voluntary work, grassroots associations. bringing people together and encouraging local communities to meet each other to exchange experiences, opinions and values: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. to be a citizen of europe means to belong to a culture which places at its centre the richness of a life lived responsibly, loved creatively, witnessed courageously in the encounter with all. we are recovering a living memory in which the horrors we europeans have witnessed are a warning for a different future. i recall that in my city of padua, in my region of veneto, a museum of memory will be built in villa venier, in the municipality of vo' euganeo. that is why the citizens for europe programme is a good idea, to be developed and communicated in every single country, city and municipality in europe, and which has our full support.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i very much appreciate the commission's proposal to strengthen the european dimension and to improve the transparency of the selection procedure for the european capital of culture. the prets report is an excellent one, and i congratulate the rapporteur on that. i find the proposal to name the prize, which the commission proposes to award to the selected city, after melina mercuri, for the reasons just mentioned by mr sifunakis, and the proposal to set up an internet portal to link the designated cities, encourage the exchange of know-how and best practice and provide information to the candidate cities, very convincing and interesting. i personally believe that it is essential to strengthen the link between the european capital of culture programme and the great theme of tourism, in order to exploit fully the enormous economic and social potential that an event of this magnitude can produce and also to ensure that it constitutes a motor for the sustainable development of the city and the surrounding area. in this connection, i would like to reiterate the proposal i made in this house during the debate on the queiró report, namely to create a european capital for tourism. this proposal is also supported by the strengthening of the urban dimension. the new agenda 2007-2013 will focus strongly on the role of cities. as you can see, the italians are operational. if mr stubb were still here, who jokingly called my fellow countrymen incapable of drawing any operational conclusions, i would tell him, just as jokingly, that perhaps he is influenced by some bad role models and his political friends. in conclusion, mr president, i hope that tomorrow parliament will vote in favour of the prets report, because it is a comprehensive and rich text, which highlights an important community project aimed at bringing europe closer to the citizens through culture and at promoting the development and revival of cities.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you will not be surprised to learn that my group is not particularly satisfied with the agreement reached and is not particularly convinced that more could not have been achieved. mr president of the commission, contrary to what you say, i do not think that this agreement will provide us with the resources to meet our ambitions. i must admit i was surprised by that statement. i think the basic problem remains the same, namely the unwillingness of the member states to finance the european union for the necessary programmes, and this seems to me to be a political problem that we will have to deal with in the coming years. i would also like to thank the team of men who negotiated the agreement and the team of women in my group who have taken part in this difficult task. the financial perspective remains conservative in its structure and is certainly not reform-oriented. twenty billion euros have been cut from rural development and ambitious projects such as natura 2000 remain to this day without financial cover. the european council has announced that there will be a review clause, but it has refused to include it in this agreement and therefore we do not know what will happen to this clause. i would also like to know from the commission - and i hope you are listening to me - whether or not your intention to improve the decision-making system for external programmes is correct, because there are conflicting views on this which i would like you to confirm. i would like to end by addressing mr schüssel: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. it seems to me that these issues absolutely must be kept on the agenda because today, with this really unsatisfactory agreement - which could have been much better than it is, if only the council had wanted it - i do not think we can make any real progress for the citizens between now and 2013.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for three days it has rained in the occupied territories. the water, blocked by the wall, which, as you all said, is illegal, in bi'ilin has dragged the bodies of two dead brothers. israeli soldiers stopped the digging to drain the water, the shelling of northern gaza destroyed agricultural areas and killed civilians. nablus and hebron are surrounded and raided. we have many responsibilities and we cannot continue to repeat the commonplace: "two peoples, two states". there are no two peoples and two states, there is one state and something in formation, a territory that is constantly being torn away, with the illegal wall, and torn away by force. kadima and the labour party can be an opportunity. i'm all for taking advantage of opportunities, but not in silence: you have to ask, very strongly. for two years now, hamas has declared and observed a truce, has ceased its activities. let us say it loud and clear: hamas has not taken any action for two years and it will never have to do so again. but we cannot, since 1980, continue to repeat 'two peoples and two states' and every time simply witness the theft of palestinian land. we must act on hamas, but we must also act on israel so that it understands that the international community makes sense.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, hamas may have put on the hair of the lamb, but under the hair of the lamb there is still a wolf's fur, if it is true that just these days the minister of the interior, said siam, denying for the first time a practice that had been imposed by arafat for the secularization of the country, encouraged a tangible sign of the process of the talibanization of palestine according to the school of hamas, allowing the palestinian police to grow beards, contrary to what was the style of the palestinian police, in order to fully comply with the precept attributed to maometto: "to distinguish yourself from the infidels, grow a beard and trim your mustache". so there is a process of talibanisation, which is quite worrying at the moment when it is discovered, through the identification of a saudi would-be suicide bomber, a real presence of al-qaeda within the borders of the state of israel. the situation is extremely worrying. nor are the statements, widely reported in the international press, which suggest that foreign minister zahar is open to recognizing israel and thus to the policy of 'two states', encouraging or reassuring, since a few days earlier the same personage made an incredible statement that his dream would be to hang a beautiful map at home on which the state of israel does not appear. the talibanisation of palestine is a matter of concern. europe must open its eyes to this real danger.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the results of the recent israeli elections confirm that the path taken by prime minister sharon towards peace in the middle east, acceptable to the palestinian people and to the people of israel, is the right one, and perhaps the only one possible. the problem now is whether the new palestinian government will be able to continue on this path despite the victory of hamas in the last legislative elections. the european union must work to become the main actor in a peace process which has repeatedly seen it play a less active role in the mediation role conferred on it by the common foreign and security policy. the solution to a genuine peace in one of the most sensitive areas of the international geopolitical landscape can only be achieved through real guarantees for the security of the two countries and therefore through european political action capable of guaranteeing development and dialogue, but more firm in condemning the terrorism and violence of those who still today want the erasure of the state of israel from the maps. the powers of the community institutions in the cfsp must correspond to real expectations of enhanced negotiation in order to ensure the proper conduct of dialogue and the protection of the political and social rights of both peoples.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in my language the word 'security' is used for both the english word 'safety' and the word 'security'. however, it seems to me that the confusion we have today is not due solely to the linguistic factor. these are two issues too important to be dealt with together. however, i must admit that it is thanks to parliament's contribution that fundamental steps have been taken with regard to driving time and driving licences. i would like to make one point: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but now that we have come to the question of security and its financing, which is a matter of direct concern to me as rapporteur for this measure, i ask myself the following question: "can we amend the regulation on standards defining safety without answering the question that our citizens are asking themselves, who pays for it? " i think that's the point. it is a little difficult to answer in the affirmative, also because we have also realised that there is only one security, there are not 25 and it is not possible for each member state to determine its own security. but if there is a single security for all countries, we cannot fail to define standard measures which tend to be uniform and to establish in a clear and transparent way how to finance it. there may also be additional, more stringent measures which are only applicable in certain countries, but how can we ensure that these independent measures do not interfere negatively with and have repercussions on the security of other countries? while we wait, reality moves on. today we have, in fact, basic security which is financed by means of tariffs, extra costs on tickets and is more or less co-financed by the member states depending on the levels of security they wish to establish. this system should be regulated differently: i believe that the states must at least take over the surplus measures and that it is essential to clarify the basic level of cofinancing between the operating states, or rather between the user states. we need at least these principles to be able to continue working.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. there's no doubt about it. the fight against corruption is a key objective if aid is to be effective, and van den berg outlined the tools needed to make this possible: transparency, participation and accountability. the role of parliaments and civil society is crucial and more transparent procedures and the dissemination of information are essential. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: finally, specific funds are needed to monitor cooperation actions. i don't think you can talk about the corruption of the pvs without seeing the other side of the coin: how much are we, the developed countries, responsible for their corruption, what is our benefit? mr matsakis has given very specific examples, but this does not mean that we should relieve the pressure on the actual corruption of many leaders and governments of the pvs and sometimes also of ngos. the fight against corruption in the beneficiary countries must also be extended to corrupt enterprises in the industrialized countries, and the fight against 'corrupt corruptors' should be conducted in the framework of an effective and transparent partnership. the institutions of the donor countries in the recipient countries must commit themselves to combating the phenomenon on the ground, by identifying and banning - and this is what mr van den berg also said - corrupt companies, whatever country they belong to, and by having the courage to act even when corruption lurks in our local institutions. in addition to being a moral fact, the cost of corruption is a cost to everyone, including european taxpayers. linking aid is another crucial aspect of the relationship between corruption and aid effectiveness. unbundled aid required for ethical reasons ensures greater transparency in procedures, award and conduct of tenders, and would also increase the amount of aid. the figures speak for themselves: tied aid leads to an average increase in the cost of goods and services of 15 to 30%, and up to 40% for food aid. it would also be desirable to arrive at a correct definition of pps. i believe that public development aid - often inflated with massive sums for debt cancellation, for peace keeping, peace enforcement and conflict prevention, repatriation of migrants and border controls - should not be changed. in such a scenario, budget support can become an important channel of support to the poorest and heavily indebted countries in the fight against poverty and in achieving the millennium development goals. however, i believe it is crucial - as the tripartite document on the european consensus on development policies states - that the governments of the member states and the european institutions should seek to coordinate and harmonize their policies within the international financial institutions, so that they become not only the largest donors in the world, but also the most responsible among donors and the most influential in determining policies that put an end to the spiral of growth of external debt in the global south, contributing to the defeat of poverty and, why not, also to the defeat of some injustices and perhaps even wars.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly a good thing that parliament has spoken on the subject of immigration centres in malta, and this only a few days after the visit of the libe committee, which i was able to attend as a delegate. the resolution adopted, which drew on the valuable contributions of all groups, exposes the seriousness of the situation of refugees living in inhumane conditions with almost no basic health and personal care services. the resolution, however, makes it clear that europe bears a great deal of responsibility for what is happening in malta. it goes without saying that the delegation's visits to reception centres throughout europe are not useful for drawing up rankings of more or less virtuous centres. but the situation in malta, although not remotely comparable to that of lampedusa in terms of the living conditions of the occupants, is similar to that of the italian island in terms of size and capacity to accommodate. it is therefore urgent that the council should take a clear and strong position so that, in line with the principle of solidarity, a common and fair immigration policy can be established as soon as possible, in order to prevent the costs of these waves of illegal immigrants from being borne only by the budgets of certain peripheral states in southern europe, which are absolutely incapable of financing themselves.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i confess my doubts about the development of european policy in the difficult situation in the middle east. i am concerned that the decisions taken by the council may not help to bring about a gradual but objective change in a difficult situation. i am concerned about the risk of further radicalisation that may arise from palestinian despair. it is not that it does not share the justification of the demands which the union has made of the new government in palestine; what puzzles me are the means used to do this: the palestinian people must be able to count on our full economic, political and moral support. you say you want to continue to provide not only emergency aid but also education and health care. i don't see how you can do that without the administration at all. we must also pay close attention to the delicate, i stress, delicate relationship between the presidency and the government in palestine. i shall conclude with three points: - work to consolidate hamas's choice of a ceasefire, which has also been confirmed; - work towards the development and empowerment of all actors in the palestinian political framework, including in the context of a change of government, and raise the issue of recognition of the agreements and the road map with both partners; - work towards a mutual re-legitimization with a view to a final solution. in this context we can only confirm our opposition to any unilateral initiative which would undermine the possibility of resolving open questions such as the question of borders, as well as the status of jerusalem. (applause from the left)
i believe that today the construction of an israeli police station has begun between jerusalem and maleh adumin, a territory occupied since 1967, paid for by the nationalist right wing with the funds of a nationalist group. in exchange, he will be given an old police station which is located in rus al amud, in the center of the arab quarter of east jerusalem. from 13 to 15 april, children were killed, in gaza there were bombings, 41 palestinians were injured, 10 houses were occupied by soldiers. i am not the one who makes this list. it comes in every day, every day, from the european commission in jerusalem. everyone can have knowledge of it and can see it. in gaza, people are being bombed and starving, and you know it very well! gaza, the agreements between the european union and the quartet, concerning rafah and concerning the karm crossing point in rafah the european union is capable of enforcing that agreement. the karm crossing is closed and it's not just a humanitarian issue, it's not just that palestinians inside gaza are hungry: it's a matter of freedom and democracy. we have to ask ourselves a question and then reverse the terms. what are we asking for? not just in terms of politely asking the israeli government to return the customs money, it's actually stealing, or to stop building the illegal wall. we must insist with the israeli government, not just ask for something! we continue to ask, and i think it is right, for example, that hamas denounce the violence, but we must also take into account the fact that hamas has not committed any violence for 18 months and says it intends to continue to do so. we said hamas didn't accept; but have we spoken to hamas? have any of you talked to hamas? we who have been to palestine, they said no! no one has been looking for hamas! it is really crucial for us not to give the palestinian people the signal of collective punishment. because it is true that they have only been suspended, but the plans are still standing! the european commission in east jerusalem has given instructions to stop any project, it is the palestinian population, not hamas. the palestinians, like us, are divided: 235,000 people voted for hamas and 213,000 for fatah and other parties. we must have the courage to admit how much we are responsible for a policy in the middle east which, unless we adopt the same attitude towards israel and palestine, will not succeed. it's really fundamental for us to have dialogue, as many israelis say: we hear those who say in israel: you have to talk! let's understand what's going on in the israeli government: if a racist and xenophobic person like liebermann comes to power, what will we say? the european union has the capacity to say and do more if we really want two peoples and two states, instead of what is happening now: one state that exists and the other that does not exist and is constantly being eroded.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in palestine is becoming increasingly tense. the european union must stand by the palestinian people, both politically and financially, now more than ever: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must now, more than ever, send a strong signal to the international community to promote the idea of 'two peoples, two states' and to respond firmly both to iranian provocations about not recognising the state of israel and to the continuing demonstrations of interference and closure by the israeli government. now more than ever the european union must show that it can accept a democratically elected government, giving the necessary confidence to hamas, while being aware that it will be necessary to monitor more closely the proper conduct of institutional activity, and to ensure that the funds allocated are not diverted to terrorist activities. the european union now has an opportunity more than ever to show its weight in the international negotiations for a solution to the crisis, by seeking to assert its role as the main interlocutor by promoting the values that have so far proved victorious within our borders: i am not going to go into the details of the negotiations.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner and mr salafranca, whom our group has supported and whose work we appreciate at the heart of our debate today. we appreciate your report because it is timely, because it is concrete, because it has a precious quality: political realism. mr salafranca reminds us that we must finally have a strategic approach to latin america, an overall vision that tries to put all the points of interest side by side: the social element, the economic element, the cultural element. it is important to note that many things have changed on this continent, and new social and political protagonists have emerged with vigor. the new role of indigenous and mixed societies, which until recently were marginalised from the political process, must be taken into account. it is also necessary to take into account the fact that regional integration processes often mark the pace and in this sense our experience can be of support and help to the work that the latin american countries are doing. finally, as mr salafranca points out, poverty remains endemic on this continent: 45% of the population lives below the poverty line! yet, despite some contradictions, the income generated by the latin american continent, in terms of gdp, is equal to 2800 dollars, which is three times what is produced in china. this tells us that latin america remains a country with great economic and income disparities, an unequal continent. in this sense, the vienna summit represents a great opportunity. the commission's proposals are not only a means of ensuring that the community's policies are effective, but also a means of ensuring that the community's policies are effective. we need the strategic perspective suggested by the commission, which the rapporteur has been able to take up.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, latin america has recently experienced growth that has exceeded expectations, and mercosur, the fourth largest economy in the world, has certainly played a key role in this. strengthening cooperation between the european union and latin america, giving priority to a two-way strategic association in political and institutional terms in order to better guide economic cooperation and socio-cultural integration between the two continents, are objectives which the party i represent and the common sense of citizens and governments in general can only share. the european institutions and the member states, particularly italy and spain, as well as european businesses, have a strong interest in this area, which is emerging as one of the poles of development of the world economy. italy, for example, has more than half of the companies in latin america based in mercosur. we therefore share the commission's intention to extend the dialogue and the issues of mutual interest to what is clearly indicated in mr salafranca's report, while taking care that the stated need for greater promotion of trade does not lead to excessive liberalization, with unfair competition reflected in the european industry. the salafranca report calls for the fight against poverty. in this connection i share the need to support agrarian reform in south america; as in europe in past centuries, the splitting up of large estates gave a very considerable boost to the cultivation of the land and, in addition to solving the problem of poverty on our continent, it encouraged its subsequent industrial development: i would therefore be grateful if mr salafranca would supplement his report in this way.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are again discussing, as we have done on several occasions in this parliament, a very sensitive issue, which concerns immunity. i am honoured to have the opportunity, on behalf of the committee and the coordinators of the legal affairs committee, to reopen the debate with my question. i think all members are aware of the need for common european parliament rules on immunity, this is a historic aspiration of the european parliament. twenty years ago a colleague of ours, mr donnez, had a report on european parliamentary immunity adopted in order to overcome a situation which was already limited, inadequate for the breathing of the european parliament as a whole, twenty years ago. the protocol on privileges and immunities provided for the immunity of the member of the european parliament from censure in the expressions used in votes, but at the same time referred to the member's national legislation to establish the rules on immunity. of course, there was a logic to all this and at that time, since parliament was then an assembly of the various national parliaments, the rule had its own ratios, its own justification. but today it is clear that thanks to universal suffrage, with all the gains made in the meantime, while parliament has not remained inert, there is a case law, there is a certain attitude on the part of the legal affairs committee, which also in the previous legislature formulated and supported a different demand, namely that all members of the european parliament must have a common statutory reference, a common organizational reference. it is clear not only to the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights but to parliament as a whole that it is difficult for members to refer to national legislation: england has a law of a certain kind, germany has another, italy had another, then it changed it. this does not enhance the prestige of the european parliament and does not lead to its effective autonomy or independence. after much discussion, you too, mr president, who is currently presiding over this house, will be well aware of this, since we have discussed and approved the statute of the european parliamentarian in the legal affairs committee and twice in this house. the council, however, took the view that this was a matter of primary law, so we amended the part of the statute which dealt with the organization of the assembly. a difficult management followed, which then led to a result: the council, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, has endeavoured to convene an intergovernmental meeting of the states, of all the various countries, in order to ratify what we decided in this house. i think we have now reached a very important point of balance: we have discussed and we have given the european parliament as a whole, with great foresight, prerogatives which enhance the role of the parliament and strengthen its independence. of course, since the council's commitment dates back to may 2005 and we are practically in may 2006, we have asked this question to urge a swift conclusion. if our colleague mr donnez felt this need 20 years ago, as parliament's vote has shown, it is still important and fundamental, and the council must immediately ratify what we have decided and established. we have made a great leap forward, and when it is recognized we will certainly be able to give the european parliament a much more important and much more valuable role. as you know, mr president, the section of the statute we passed was the least important part. i said it in that debate and i say it again today, in relation to this, which is a fundamental question, relating to the system, which elevates the european parliament and our role, above all our role. the council is being urged to do this, and i hope that parliament as a whole will take this urge into account and that every group, every member, even an individual, will share it, for only in this way can pressure be exerted on the council.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i omitted to say something in my speech earlier which i believe belongs to european legal science: the immunities are not the privilege of individual members, but of the institution as a whole. i think that comes from the historical tradition, the very meaning of immunity. the debate on the subject of the european parliament's role in the european union is a debate on the european parliament's role in the european union. we have already approved and discussed many times; i am not going to go into the details of the procedure. if the council had been alert, if the presidencies of the previous six months had been alert, this measure would have been ratified by the council today. since this privilege enhances the role and independence of parliament, if the council were to put it on the agenda, the presidency would not only have enormous merit, but perhaps even pave the way for a constitution. the obstacles to the convention or the difficulties it faces in getting approved in europe must not affect the role of parliament as a whole. on the other hand, national references exist, but they are of little importance, the european parliament has universal suffrage.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to make one thing very clear here: of course my remarks must not be interpreted as a rejection of the legitimate prerogatives of members of parliament. the council has also expressed its views on the need to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the council presidency will of course convey the wishes expressed here to the member states, drawing attention to all the elements, including the declaration already quoted here several times. the new statute will in any case enter into force in 2009. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. it is therefore hard to imagine, or rather unlikely, that even if an intergovernmental conference were convened immediately - which, as i have said, i do not think is appropriate at the moment - such a rule adopted there could come into force before the next european parliamentary term begins. finally, as regards the question raised in the debate, which concerns the participation of the european parliament in such an intergovernmental conference, i would just like to make it clear that such participation and the question of the extent of participation would naturally have to be defined in the council decision to convene such a conference, where the modalities for involving other institutions in such an intergovernmental conference would have to be decided.
i have received two motions for resolutions. under article 108 (5) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in milan, at a rally to celebrate the anniversary of the liberation of italy and europe from nazi occupation, there was a very serious anti-semitic incident, a very violent racist incident. the jewish brigade that fought for the liberation of europe was attacked, two israeli flags were burned, the minister of education was violently attacked. but even more serious, the father of the minister of education, a partisan, a prisoner in dachau, a silver and bronze medal of the resistance, was challenged and whistled. we must not allow such incidents to happen again, and we must send a strong signal from this house. i formally ask, mr president, that the presidency of parliament should take action to condemn once again these incidents of anti-semitic racism, with a formal statement by its president.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the attack in milan on italian minister letizia moratti, who was forced by insults and threats to leave the parade for the celebrations of 25 april, the date of liberation in italy, is undoubtedly a disgrace to be denounced at european level, also because it tramples on the values of freedom which unite us in this parliament and which are incompatible with those who try to intimidate those who think differently from them. i ask you, mr president, to condemn together the acts mentioned, namely the burning of israeli flags and the feelings of anti-jewish intolerance, while expressing solidarity with the italian minister who accompanied his father to the march, who had been deported to dachau and was confined to a wheelchair. these are serious events from which we must firmly distance ourselves, especially since they took place during a procession which was to celebrate the liberation of our country.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004: section iii, commission [sec(2005) 1159 - c6-0351/2005 - 2005/2090 (dec) ] [sec(2005) 1158 - c6-0352/2005 - 2005/2090 (dec) ] [2005/2090 (dec) ] (a6-0108/2006),- the report by mr markus ferber, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004: section i, european parliament [2005/2091 (dec) ] (a6-0119/2006) - report by mr nils lundgren, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge for implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004: section ii, council [2005/2092 (dec) ] (a6-0111/2006),- the report by mr nils lundgren, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge for implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004: section iv, court of justice [2005/2093 (dec) ] (a6-0112/2006),- the report by mr nils lundgren, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge for implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004: section v, court of auditors [2005/2094 (dec) ] (a6-0113/2006),- the report by mr nils lundgren, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge for implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004: section vi, european economic and social committee [2005/2095 (dec) ] (a6-0114/2006) - report by mr nils lundgren, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004: section vii, committee of the regions [2005/2096 (dec) ] (a6-0115/2006) - report by mr nils lundgren, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004: section viii ((a), european ombudsman [2005/2042 ((dec) ] (a6-0116/2006),- the report by mr nils lundgren, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the discharge for implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004: [2005/0011/ec] on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2004/06 [2005/0011/ec] on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2004/06 [2005/0011/ec] on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2004/06 [2005/0011/ec] on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2004/06 [2005/0011/ec] on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2004/06 [2005/0011/ec] on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2004/06 [2005/0011/ec] on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2004/06 [2005/0011/ec] on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2004/06 [2005/0011/ec] on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2004/06 [2005/0011/ec] on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2004/06 [2005/0011/ec] on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2004/06 [2005/0011/ec] on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2004/06 [2005/0011/2006 financial year] on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2004/06 [2005/0011/2006 budget of the european union for the financial year 2004/06 [2005/0011/2006 financial year] on the budget
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 8.15 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european parliament has the important task of granting discharge for the implementation of the 2004 budget to 14 european agencies which receive total, partial or indirect subsidies from the european union. i shall not dwell here on the specific features and problems of each agency, but will merely highlight the elements which have emerged as the main points of common discussion. i take this opportunity to emphasize what i have just said, namely that the discharge is being made on only 14 agencies compared to the 27 existing ones. i wonder how many of you are actually aware of the number and the actual functions of these bodies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not for nothing that, after the discussion of my report in committee, a study was commissioned, and is still under way, to analyse and clarify the situations of the european agencies. the study is highlighting what the report has already pointed out, namely the lack of harmonisation between the different agencies and the risk of lack of transparency linked to the difficulties of control by parliament. to this end, i asked the council in the report to open negotiations as soon as possible on the conclusion of the proposal for an interinstitutional agreement, which was presented by the commission at the request of parliament, which in its 2003 discharge report on the agencies asked for the institutional agreement to be opened in order to bring all the agencies into a common regulatory framework. i would like to stress the unfairness of the present situation with regard to parliament's powers of discharge, pointing out that under article 185 of the financial regulation parliament grants discharge for the implementation of the budget to bodies set up by the community which have legal personality and which actually receive subsidies from the budget. in fact, it is important to note that not all these bodies are fully or even partially financed through budgetary grants, so it can be concluded that the discharge decision concerns both budgetary financing and other forms of financing of these bodies. the situation is clearly unacceptable and implies that some bodies set up by the union must be accountable for the way they spend funds from different budgetary sources, while others, which do not receive the subsidy from the budget, are not required to do so. an amendment to the financial regulation which i proposed and which was approved by the committee on budgetary control introduced exactly this principle: if the amended regulation is adopted, parliament's powers of control will be greatly expanded in the years to come, in line with the principles of transparency and democracy. in the course of the report, the court of auditors' analyses have been of great help, as they have revealed some very minor irregularities, and i therefore agree with the court of auditors' opinion, which proposed that the directors of all 14 agencies analysed should be discharged. it regrets, however, that the analysis requested of the court is purely technical in nature, and that no control is carried out on the way the budget allocated has been spent in the current year. i have made this point in the working document accompanying the reports. proposing that the court of auditors should, in the years to come, supplement the present evaluation with an audit of the quality of services, skills and activities, or the efficiency of the way the budget is spent by the individual agencies. many of the problems identified are recurrent and so we speak of a horizontal analysis of the problems that have emerged at the horizontal level with respect to the various agencies: one of these problems concerns the financial regulation, which was designed for the agencies, while the subsequent financial regulations specific to each agency were designed to follow as closely as possible the general financial regulation created for the commission. this is a generally valid criterion, but it is sometimes not appropriate for smaller agencies, which will need to be reformed. this is one of the main objections raised by the court of auditors. the problems of staff selection are also common to several agencies; as agencies certainly need more assistance than larger institutions; i therefore think it is important that the commission should make available to them the services offered by epso, the commission's directorate-general for personnel selection, as well as other horizontal services such as training and legal services. another problem concerns internal auditing, which is too burdensome for some agencies; i therefore think it is useful for the commission to present a report on the current situation, describing both the internal audit capabilities that exist in each agency and the internal audit services that the commission is able to make available to smaller agencies. finally, i would like to focus on a matter which has been the subject of intense debate and has given rise to divergent thinking between parliament and the commission, namely the question of the european agency for reconstruction, which was set up in 2000 to provide assistance for the reconstruction, development and stability of the regions of kosovo, serbia, montenegro and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia through the cards programme. as the programme has come to an end, the commission has taken the decision to close the agency by 2008. in view of the excellent work done in recent years and in order to avoid the loss of valuable experience gained over many years of activity, i proposed in my report to extend the mandate of the agency so that it can be used to provide reconstruction assistance wherever it is needed, for example in iraq, afghanistan, pakistan or even in countries that have recently been affected by the tsunami, in order to complement the humanitarian first aid provided by echo, the commission department created to provide aid in the event of natural disasters or armed conflicts in territories outside the union. i think that is about all that was said on the report, which i hope will be voted on at the next plenary session.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just to inform this house that this morning there was an attack in nasiriyah, iraq, against a european military convoy: three italian carabinieri and a romanian soldier were killed. i believe that our assembly should remember the sacrifice of these european citizens who were doing their work and serving peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i naturally agree with mr tajani, but i would add that perhaps it is really time for these troops to leave iraq. i have asked to speak, however, under rule 22, which concerns the powers of the bureau. i refer in particular to what happened yesterday in the bureau, where the possibility of citizens writing to the community institutions in an official language of their own country was rejected. this decision of the bureau has nothing administrative about it, since there would be no cost to parliament whatsoever. it is a political decision and my group is opposed to it and intends to raise it at the conference of presidents. such a decision to prevent the communication of citizens, already approved by the commission and the council, cannot be rejected by an assembly such as ours. i only wanted to state our position on the powers of the bureau.
road safety directly concerns all the inhabitants of the european union. increasing mobility has high costs: each year, 1.3 million accidents cause more than 40,000 deaths and 1.7 million injuries. in particular, one italian in two uses his own car to get around. 26 million italians leave their homes every day to go to work or school. trafficking costs the national economy over four billion euros every year, about two hundred euros on average per household. italians are abandoning public transport in droves. in 1991, 17% of the population used it, in 2001 12.9%. in rome, there are 7 cars for every 10 inhabitants, an absolute european record. that is why the problem of road safety and the reduction of traffic jams caused by accidents is so felt in our nation. the eu has set itself the goal of halving the number of road deaths by 2010. ecall could save up to 2,500 lives every year, reduce traffic congestion and contribute to the efficiency of road transport at european level by reducing external costs, which in europe are estimated at eur 4 billion and in italy at around 2% of gdp.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i just wanted to say that we are about to vote on a fantastic resolution on the promotion of multilingualism in europe, and it will certainly be adopted by a large majority in this parliament. unfortunately, there are sometimes contradictions between what parliament does and what it says: the presidency yesterday rejected the possibility for european citizens to address our institution in a co-official language, unlike the council and the commission. i think that is totally contrary to what we are about to vote on, and we as a group will appeal. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have asked for the explanation of vote: i voted against the budget because i think the decision taken on the questions raised about the location of the buildings in strasbourg is a slight. a question of this kind, linked precisely to the buildings in which the work of our parliament is carried out in strasbourg, cannot be further tied up in the folds of internal administrative paperwork. i understand that the president himself has already sent a letter to the city of strasbourg. now, in accordance with the principle of transparency, which is fundamental to the european institutions, i propose that a temporary committee of inquiry be set up immediately to find out all the details behind the lease agreements for the buildings in strasbourg and who is behind the ownership of the company erasmus.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the vote on the report on food labelling, i am pleased to inform the house that after intensive negotiations we have reached a common text which i hope will enable us to avoid the conciliation procedure. before going into detail, i should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups, mr sommer, mr corbey, mr maaten, mr evans, mr breyer, mr liotard and mr blokland, for their decisive contribution and for their readiness to dialogue, even in the most difficult moments. in a situation of deadlock, in which the council seemed to have given us nothing more, we were able to draw up a compromise package: the council has adopted a final text which, with the agreement of all the parliamentary groups, led the council to accept the proposals. the only thing missing is the seal of tomorrow's vote and i would therefore ask all members to support the compromise in order to achieve the qualified majority needed to amend the common position. i think that, on the whole, it is a balanced text which effectively pursues the objective of ensuring that the consumer is given correct, transparent and comprehensible information, so that he can make a balanced and informed choice of his diet. we all agree in this house that we must promote a healthy and balanced diet for the citizens of europe and that we must avoid that a tempting label promising extraordinary benefits for the consumer's health or, even worse, for his health, is actually a high-calorie food, without the consumer being able to identify it as such. in a europe where, according to the who, one in five children is obese, and in the light of recent studies showing the link between advertising and the consumption of junk food, this regulatory intervention is now untenable. i believe that the primary objective of consumer protection has been fully achieved in the text resulting from the compromise. i would add that, through parliament's intervention, we have been able to respond to the requests for clarity and certainty of timing that the food industry has been concerned about. it was not a simple compromise, partly because on some points the council's position remained very rigid - almost unshakable - until the end of the negotiations. i therefore consider it a great success that we have obtained concessions on these points: i refer in particular to article 4 and the measures on alcohol which we shall deal with later. but i would like to stress at this point that the agreement with the council is a package which must be supported in its entirety. i therefore urge that amendments nos 90 and 49 be rejected immediately, since they are outside the package agreed with the other european institutions. as regards the introduction of so-called 'health' labels on the market, the council agreed to introduce a simplified and faster procedure which will give our companies greater certainty. it was clear from our unanimous vote in the committee on the environment that the shortening of the time should not be at the expense of careful scientific checks on the veracity of the statements on the labels. the european food safety authority (efsa) was to have exactly the same time period to check the claims in both procedures. the council followed us in this proposal and, as a final result, parliament has succeeded in obtaining, within eight months, final authorization for the placing on the market of health labels which do not present any particular difficulties. on the other hand, for some labels which are particularly dangerous because they are highly suggestive, such as those which claim to reduce health risks and those which relate to children's development, the simplified procedure will not be applicable. on the contrary, these labels will have to be subject to the full authorisation procedure which ensures greater scientific control not only by efsa and the commission but also by the member states in the framework of the comitology procedure. on the controversial subject of nutritional profiles, the famous article 4, i would like to remind you that until last wednesday the council was opposed to any derogation from the text. in essence, according to the common position, no type of labelling nutritional or health could be used on a product that did not comply with the nutritional profiles established by efsa. for example, a candy with a high sugar content could never have contained a health or nutritional claim. the compromise text, accepted by all the groups and the council, now provides for the possibility of labelling nutritionally, even when a substance exceeds the nutritional profile, provided that a warning to the consumer of a high presence of the substance exceeding the nutritional profiles is added on the same side of the package. this ensures that the consumer is given correct information, which is readily available on the same side of the packaging, while leaving the industry free to use this type of claim. i regard this text as a victory for parliament on a point which the council initially considered untouchable. as regards trade marks, we have obtained that for 15 years existing trade marks can continue to be used without further requirements. after expiry of the time limit, they may continue to be used provided that they are accompanied by a corresponding claim which complies with the provisions of this regulation. i think that this is a sufficiently long transitional period for industry, but one which will allow it to adapt to community rules. in addition, we have preserved the use of generic names that traditionally accompany food products such as "appetizer", "digestive" and "cough drops": the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. i would also remind the house that all negative labelling systems, the so-called red lights or red flags, which are already in use in some countries, are outside the scope of the regulation and will therefore be regulated at national level. as a parliament we have achieved important victories in the negotiations on the protection of smes. what was initially said to be technically impossible has now been granted. the commission notes that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is compatible with the internal market. under the new article 15, the commission will have to commit itself to making available tools and guidelines directed at smes in order to facilitate in particular the application of this regulation. in addition, by reducing the data protection period to five years, from the seven originally envisaged, we have shortened the time for access to the use of claims for small and medium-sized enterprises that do not have the financial means to support labelling research on their own. smes will be able to use all the labels already authorised and available on the list provided for in article 13 in advance, thanks to parliament's amendment. the use of the website is free of charge and requires no formalities. even those who cannot afford to finance research on a claim can therefore use it easily and without additional burden. as regards the protection of children - a matter which has been very much discussed in this house - we have obtained that all labels relating to the development or improvement of children's health be assessed through the full authorization procedure, to ensure that the scientific validity of the label and its comprehensibility for the consumer is carefully monitored, including by the member states. the indications of medical associations, dieticians and nutritionists will be accepted as opposed to those of individual doctors. as regards alcohol, nutritional labels were already allowed in the common position. for drinks with more than 1.2% alcohol, labels with the words "reduced alcohol content" or "less calories" were allowed. the council has given us the option of using the term 'low alcohol' as a last resort. we have also received important recognition for the importance of maintaining the different culinary traditions and for the possibility of facilitating the sale of bulk food. in conclusion, i would ask everyone to support the amendments which form part of the compromise signed by all the groups and only those groups, in order to bring to a positive conclusion the legislative process of this report which is so controversial that it has remained in this parliament for more than three years. i would like to thank everyone, including the staff of the groups and the technicians who supported us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, so-called 'functional' foods, enriched with substances which are supposed to improve the health or well-being of consumers, are one of the most innovative sectors with the greatest scope for market growth. it is therefore necessary to ensure control of this type of food and, above all, control of the statements on the labels, which attract the consumer by promising benefits from a dietary or health point of view. the compromise text ensures transparent and comprehensive information on food labels and allows the consumer to make an informed dietary choice. this is all the more urgent when we consider the impact of advertising on children. advertising directly influences the food preferences of children by changing their eating habits. parliament's intervention also brought due attention to smes, which need support to adapt to the new rules introduced by the regulation and which will therefore be able to count on certain time limits for the placing of their products on the market and the possibility of using the claims already authorised. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs poli bortone, for her excellent and not easy work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my group cannot vote in favour of the agreement with morocco because its entry into force is a breach of international law. the claim to define as moroccan territorial waters also those which actually belong to western sahara means trampling on the rights of the saharawi people, clearly defined by the united nations, in particular their right to self-determination, already contained in the declaration. we all know that for many years the moroccan government has been obstructing in every way the organisation of the referendum on the independence of western sahara. instead of pressing rabat to take the path of a diplomatic solution, the union risks sending the wrong signal by signing the agreement under discussion today, legitimising a situation of occupation which has been denounced for years. a few weeks ago we voted a resolution calling for the sovereignty of the saharawi over the resources of that country to be respected. i think we should reiterate this by denouncing the agreement in the parts where morocco has incorporated the saharawi territorial waters, as my group has tried to do. finally, i believe that this agreement demonstrates the need to include the democratic clause in all fisheries agreements between the union and third countries. in february parliament unanimously approved my report on this subject. it is not acceptable that the union and morocco should do business at the expense of the saharawis, as is the case here. respect for international law, and therefore for the sovereignty of western sahara, must be a condition for the further development of eu-morocco relations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rack report clearly illustrates the challenges and expectations of european society in the face of an undeniable and unceasing increase in road traffic, which is so much the precursor of the risk of road traffic collapse, as is written in the report, which we see on a daily basis in many of the streets and cities of our continent. it is therefore the legislator's duty to promote alternative and more environmentally friendly modes of transport and, above all, to integrate better and make intermodal transport as functional as possible, both for safety and quality of life, while of course trying to balance the needs of the economy. in this connection, mr rack's excellent report makes appropriate proposals for the marco polo ii programme, which i hope the financial allocation will make possible. the party i represent, the tri-colour fiamma, has always supported the idea of the so-called 'motorways of the sea', which were conceived in italy for the mediterranean in the first half of the last century, motorways which are rightly taken into account and relaunched in the rack report, in the context of the marco polo ii programme. i would also like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief overview of the various measures that have been taken to ensure that the transport of dangerous goods is not subject to any restrictions. i think it is an excellent report, and i hope that it will have the support of the whole of parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this report, although i expressed my doubts about the amendment which refers to the treaty establishing a european constitution. the treaty was not approved, but was rejected by popular referendums in france and the netherlands, with the goodwill of giorgio napolitano, the newly elected president of the italian republic, who, in his opening speech, advocated the cause of this treaty, forgetting that he was above the parties. the italian parliament approved the treaty, but not unanimously. the one who declares himself above the parties should not support something that has divided the italian parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the careful action that commissioner rehn is taking in relation to the two countries in question and the commissioner's words make clear the progress made by romania and bulgaria. i think that reducing the number of outstanding cases from 16 to 6 and from 14 to 4 in a few months has been a brilliant achievement. i think we all know in this house that when ten countries joined the european union on 1 may 2004, they were not fully ready to join the union. we also know that the efforts made by these peoples are completed over time. can you tell me whether there are no minority problems in some of these countries or whether the fight against corruption does not concern all 25 member states of the union? so what has changed since may 1, 2004? why then was the emphasis on pictures and flags so much more than the much more rigorous and even more formal position of today? i think we have to recognize that if it is true that there are indeed problems in the two countries that are about to join the union, it is likely that the biggest problems exist within the union itself. and if we ask ourselves what has changed since then, the answer is that we have not been able to implement the constitutional treaty, which was the foundation of this enlargement. but be careful not to make these countries and peoples - who have made so many efforts to get out of the historical phase of communism - pay a price that is not theirs. in conclusion, commissioner, i believe we are moving in the right direction and i expect the date of 1 january 2007 for the accession of romania and bulgaria to be confirmed in the autumn.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate there was no mention at all of the acquis communautaire with regard to equality between men and women, a guilty silence which, unfortunately, indicates the lack of consideration for the subject. yet in romania, women have made great strides in education: girls have higher education than boys, in 2005 almost 55 per cent of graduates were women and among university professors women represent 40 per cent. these figures indicate the potential of the romanian female population, a potential frustrated, however, in the political field, where men massively dominate all decision-making levels. another positive development is the commitment to greater resources and administrative autonomy for the romanian equal opportunities agency. other actions were undertaken in bulgaria: the national council for equal opportunities was established under the presidency of the council. the government has signed the optional protocol of the committee on the elimination of discrimination against women (cedaw); the recent elections brought bulgaria significantly closer to the european average in terms of women in parliament and government. of course, there is still a long way to go to achieve true equality between men and women in the two countries, but the faster romania and bulgaria join the eu, the faster the path to equality will be. i therefore vote in favour of their accession on 1 january 2007. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. mr ebner refers to the need to protect children and young people from aggressive advertising for ringtones, mobile phones, games, etc. and asks whether the commission intends to take action on this. the recently adopted unfair commercial practices directive bans aggressive commercial practices and gives specific protection to children and young people. if a commercial practice is specifically aimed at a particular group of consumers such as children, its impact will be assessed from the perspective of the average member of that group. furthermore, the directive bans direct pressure on children to purchase. the distance selling directive also protects consumers who purchase goods and services at a distance, in other words with no face-to-face contact. it includes provisions on prior information. when providing that information, the supplier must have due regard for the protection of minors. the commission has already launched a review of eight of the consumer directives, including the distance selling directive. issues such as those raised by mr ebner will be addressed in the review. a communication on the review will be published this autumn.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the next few months. they had stated that the first data would be available in the autumn. is there also another timetable for when we can actually put in place the stricter standards which are certainly needed in this area, as i have heard you say? could you give me more information on this timetable, which will be fixed after the autumn?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the speeches of our colleagues show that we are having a very difficult time getting out of the 'glass half full, half empty' logic. many of my colleagues have seen the glass as half full, many others as half empty. but what is the relevant political fact, beyond the partial results on each budget chapter, that tells us that this is a good result? i believe that this is a political achievement, in the sense that parliament has shown itself to be active, able to revive and transform an intergovernmental decision into a decision with a european perspective. we must be grateful to reimer böge and the negotiating team and to all those who have shown a fruitful concern for the future of a generation. i would like to point out that the positive result of this political initiative is also represented by the set of rules which accompany the budget result and which will allow access to community programmes in order to ensure sound financial management. as rapporteur for the transeuropean networks, i would also like to stress that these networks are one of the decisive factors in achieving the european union's economic and employment development objectives, as set out in the lisbon agenda. i therefore insist that community resources should be used as a priority on crossborder sections with high european added value, and i ask the member states to commit themselves to national sections of the networks. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached is not what we would have wished, although parliament has fought with dignity for a more adequate budget. if there has been progress - and there has been - it is only thanks to parliament, its negotiating delegation and the rapporteur. the council must take full responsibility before the citizens of europe for a short-sighted and stingy vision, which is concerned only with balancing national budgets and not with making europe great and strong. we are, however, pleased that the agreement has given some positive responses and that it enshrines the start of the programmes from 1 january 2007. the reform of the financing of the budget remains open. we need a fundamental reform of the structure and the methods, away from the mercantile logic of giving and taking and animated by a genuine europeanist inspiration. no public institution has lasted long without a direct fiscal tie to its citizens.
today's vote is particularly important for the whole of the european union, because it marks the end of two years of complex negotiations in which meps have been committed to defending a future budget based on a global vision, a european perspective and not a national one, with a great sense of responsibility and political perspective. these are negotiations which i had the opportunity to follow closely as a member of the first ad hoc temporary committee set up to draw up the european parliament's proposal to strengthen cohesion policy and to ensure the optimum level of funding for the reforms needed to achieve the ambitions of the european union and its citizens, of whom we are the representatives. the european parliament has succeeded in adopting a budget which reconciles political priorities and financial needs, modernising its structure and improving its implementation. today's vote sets out a financial perspective which contains much-needed new elements, such as increased spending possibilities, more flexibility in management, priorities for transeuropean networks, programmes to strengthen youth exchanges, the common foreign and security policy and the neighbourhood policy.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot but agree with the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and, above all, on sound financial management. however, we must be aware that accepting the european council's decision on the budget review means cutting expenditure, especially if we are aiming to use the union's own resources instead of the member states' contributions. it will then be easier to eliminate the extra percentage that parliament pays on the rent of its strasbourg premises, precisely because it is an unjustified and inappropriate burden. it must also be realized that the revision will involve the reduction of workplaces and the many trips that are sometimes made just to satisfy the love of this or that character. the interinstitutional agreement, although not encouraging, must also be approved and we welcome the alignment of political priorities with the financial requirements resulting from the negotiations. i wonder, however, whether the clear separation between a budget based on own resources and the contribution of the member states does not create some technical difficulties in the financing of certain programmes, unless this separation also relates to the programmes themselves and the political objectives to be achieved. we therefore hope for a great deal of clarity, great transparency and a clear intransigence between expenditure and objectives.
the agenda includes the report by mr richard howitt, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report on human rights in the world 2005 and the eu's policy on the matter (2005/2203 (ini)) - (a6-0158/2006)
the howitt report is an important step forward in comparison with the past, as it seeks to analyse the impact of the european union's human rights policies, and above all their effectiveness vis-à-vis third countries. the first significant change in this report is the request to include - as from the next annual report - an examination of the actual respect of the democracy clause, which was voted on 14 february. i am sorry to say, however, that neither the council nor the commission has given any precise indication as to how they intend to implement this clause on democracy and rights in trade relations between europe and third countries. the resolution calls for the european union to support the activities of the newly created un human rights council and at the same time calls for universal ratification of the rome statute establishing the international criminal court, in particular by the united states, for which there can be no legal exception. the document also condemns in particular the bilateral agreements which some eu countries have concluded with the us to guarantee the impunity of us soldiers. it also called for the european union to be consistent in its human rights policy, particularly in the case of china, with regard to the tibetan people and guantánamo, and called for the immediate closure of all special prisons. however, i cannot ignore some of the limitations of the report, which makes no reference to the european union's failure to support human rights at the sixth wto ministerial conference in hong kong. the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter. the commission is also aware of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter. finally, as regards colombia, article 41 is not as explicit as the situation of the citizens of the latin american state deserves, as in the case of the inhabitants of peaceful communities involved in numerous massacres that go unpunished. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. one last note: although i agree with the request that the european union's annual report on human rights include the involvement of the european parliament, i still believe that it is equally necessary for parliament to continue to draw up its own specific report, aimed at assessing and ensuring parliamentary scrutiny of the european commission's actual commitment to human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the impression that the report places too much emphasis on the role of the eu on the world stage in the field of human rights, and that it is not systematically dealing with third countries. the call to the council to identify those countries which are of particular concern about human rights violations would be meaningful if, at the same time, it were to take action against these states; the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe, especially if it has the courage to implement these policies also in relation to large states such as china and the united states. the european union must give priority to respect for human rights in the accession negotiations with turkey and croatia, and the same must be said for the stabilization and association negotiations with the countries of the former yugoslav republic. the commission must therefore prove that there are no shadows. i note that the fight against trafficking in human beings, which underlies illegal immigration, especially from eastern europe, africa and china, is now considered a priority widely shared by the community institutions. as regards the concerns expressed by mr howitt about iran - with reference to the first months of president ahmadinejad's term of office - i find frankly similar concerns simplistic and demagogic, as well as i find the eu's position of support for us policy in iraq and the violations of guantánamo to be flat and counterproductive. in conclusion, i consider it a priority to define a progressive scale of measures and sanctions to be applied for violations of human rights. politically motivated arrests, persecution of minorities, torture, suppression of freedom of religion, speech and expression are facts which, wherever they occur in the world, require concrete action by the union.
the eu is the world's leading human rights defender. this parliament has on countless occasions spoken in favour of improving living conditions and human dignity in many situations which are unfortunately still daily before the eyes of international public opinion. however, much remains to be done to translate our intentions into concrete actions aimed at implementing effective strategies to improve the human rights situation in the world. the eu itself must first ensure that european policies of external relations, international trade and development take this commitment as one of its priorities, integrating attention to human rights into all activities arising from them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. particular attention should be paid to the countries with which the eu has the closest links: the european union is also committed to the development of the candidate countries (especially turkey) and the neighbourhood countries, and i am thinking in particular of the caucasian republics, where, despite considerable progress, many issues relating to ethnic and religious tolerance and freedom of expression remain open.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak on the neighbourhood instrument, which i have followed for the opinion of the committee on development. this new policy, which has become necessary after the last major enlargement, provides for a very wide geographical coverage. the priority objective of this policy is, as you know, the creation of a common area of prosperity and security to develop economic integration and political cooperation between the union and the partner countries. this is both a challenge and an opportunity to seize the opportunities that this policy offers, also in terms of development, given that the majority of the countries benefiting from the neighbourhood policy are developing countries. the neighbourhood instrument links internal cohesion closely with external cohesion: in this sense, security is therefore linked to development. i therefore draw the attention of the commission and the council to the fact that development policy must be given greater scope as an instrument of the union's external relations.
i would like to thank the commission and the presidency, mr mitchell, the afet committee and all the members of the committees and their secretariats for their hard work in reaching agreement on four instruments for external action. interinstitutional cooperation and dialogue are a laboratory which will enable us to find a positive and effective outcome in the interests of all the actors involved, particularly those in the developing countries. the development cooperation instrument has made decisive progress on the expiry date, the revision clause and other issues. the negotiation process has succeeded in overcoming the differences. with the first reading, we close this first phase so that we can move as soon as possible to the creation of a task force of the deve committee - this decision has already been taken by the committee itself - which will enable us, as soon as we have received formal proposals from the commission, to discuss structures and content in order to reach a complete agreement as soon as possible, since the responsibility for any 'voids' would be shared by all and not by one party alone. we have found a solution which we regard as positive on one of the main points of the mitchell report, namely the avoidance of confusion in cooperation with developing and industrialized countries. i very much hope that we will also be able to find a solution with regard to parliament's right to define the thematic and geographical priorities, priorities which cannot be abolished, also in view of the fact that the document in question replaces 16 regulations adopted in codecision.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and also commissioner piebalgs for his presence in the chamber, while stressing the importance of a joint debate on these issues, precisely because we realise that all these problems are closely linked. the reason we are facing this debate today is because of the novelty that constitutes an even more serious challenge to our territory: climate change due to global warming. it is therefore necessary to identify long-term prevention measures, which can be summarised by the concept of integrated land maintenance. let me explain: as the territory is subject to multiple challenges, maintenance is required that addresses all of the issues in question: water safety, increasing retention times of our waterways; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the risk of fires in the forests, including the use of biomass for energy purposes. there is also a need for short-term prevention, particularly against flooding, which should consist of a radar network capable of quantifying rainfall and which can guarantee, thanks to river modelling, a sufficient reaction time also for the defence of the civilian population and property. this is what we must do at union level, as mr beaupuy has already said: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr capoulas santos' report is comprehensive and i find it organic that the recitals are linked to the articles calling on the community institutions to pay the utmost attention to the agricultural and forestry sector. the report sums up well how agroforestry is closely linked to nature and therefore to its excesses and accidents. it is in articles 2, 3, 9 and 12 that the necessary rebalancing measures are outlined. the common objective, as mr prodi has also stressed, is to structure the community strategy for dealing with disasters, both through prevention measures and by providing the mechanisms for the use of the solidarity fund and the various state aid schemes. as far as development policies are concerned, i am in favour of the requested increase in cofinancing rates. i also appreciate the articles which stress the need for awareness-raising and training actions for the actors involved to go hand in hand with research on the ground, and therefore on documentation and cartographic reproduction. finally, i agree with the proposals for directives in articles 25 et seq. aimed at making better use of community instruments in this field.
member of the commission. mr president, we all recognise the importance of being prepared for disasters. we all wish for a better response to emergency situations. significantly, we all recognise the need to work together. the resolutions passed by parliament last year, these commendable reports and the commission’s proposals all aim to achieve the same purpose. the call for increased cooperation in civil protection clearly reflects the commission’s line of thought. to react effectively to a disaster, we need to have all our available resources in a state of ready deployment. when these do not suffice or are unavailable, the commission needs to be empowered to find alternative means. as regards the agricultural aspects, i should like to emphasise that the commission will do its utmost to optimise the use of existing instruments. it is clear that, at this stage, solutions or assistance for the agricultural or forestry sector in the event of natural disasters will have to come via existing instruments under the rural development and forest policies, state aid and the possibilities that exist under the first pillar of the common agricultural policy. i would be more cautious as regards greater budgetary flexibility to ease the problems for the agricultural sector. we are tied to the funds available. i see major difficulties in using underspent budget lines for disaster relief purposes, but the commission is prepared to analyse the feasibility of any suggestions. one difficulty, for example, is that we will only know with any certainty late in the budget year whether there is any margin left in the budget. finally, it should be remembered that in the future we will be more likely to have to apply financial discipline, which will reduce the likelihood of underspent amounts. the commission is also examining whether risk and crisis management instruments to support the agricultural sector could be a way forward. i am particularly grateful for the great expression of support the commission’s proposal to adjust and improve the eu solidarity fund has received today. with the new fund, the eu will have an instrument at its disposal that allows it effectively to assist member states and candidate countries whenever a crisis situation arises. an act of european solidarity can be counted on, no matter whether in response to a natural or another kind of serious disaster. this will be good not only for the european union’s image but also, more importantly, for the union, the member states and acceding countries and their regions and, in particular, for the people affected by such disastrous events. the rapporteur and other honourable members have spoken in favour of all major elements of the commission proposal. this represents invaluable support in steering the proposal through the remaining steps of the legislative procedure. in the light of this far-reaching agreement between our two institutions, the commission appeals to the member states and the council to rethink their position which, up to now, has certainly been much less favourable than that of this house. i note that you have proposed to grant solidarity fund assistance to candidate countries only if the same disaster also affects a member state, even if this issue has not been discussed today. while i understand the underlying reason – i.e. not to financially overburden the fund – this proposal puts candidate countries in a worse position than they are currently in. at present, they are on an equal footing with member states as regards eligibility for the fund. i would ask honourable members to reflect again on whether politically this is what they really want. i also note that the use of the solidarity fund for preventative measures has been proposed. there can be no doubt that prevention is an extremely important part of a comprehensive policy in relation to disasters, a view the commission fully supports. but it cannot be the role of the solidarity fund, which has been designed to bear some of the emergency costs incurred by member states in dealing with disasters. at eu level, prevention and reconstruction measures can be supported by the structural funds and the cohesion fund, or by agricultural funds. in fact, risk prevention is one of the european rural development fund’s priorities for the period 2007-2013. in addition, rural development measures under the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund can finance the restoration of agricultural production potential damaged by natural disasters and the introduction of appropriate prevention instruments, including risk prevention for forest fires. we need to strengthen all of the european union’s existing instruments for the benefit of our environment and, more importantly, for the safety and wellbeing of our citizens. i agree with those members who said that actions of solidarity and actions taken to prevent disasters and deal with their consequences will bring europe closer to its citizens. these issues are extremely important in order to get the european citizens’ full support for our work. that is why i should like to thank again all the rapporteurs, mr capoulas santos, mr galeote quecedo, mrs estrela and mr berend, for their excellent reports that will strengthen european identity. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. the written declaration (article 142)
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, i would ask that in amendment no 7 to paragraph 1, where it is proposed to add 'in particular in china, belarus, cuba and north korea', the following words be added: "colombia, turkey and tunisia". the resulting paragraph 1 would therefore read as follows: 'is concerned about the high number of journalists imprisoned worldwide, particularly in china, belarus, cuba, north korea, colombia, turkey and tunisia.'
that concludes the voting.
mr president, although this is not part of the explanations of vote, i take this opportunity to thank you for the competence you have shown in chairing the house. you will have noticed that many of us support you in this regard. i voted with great conviction in favour of the galeote quecedo report, particularly on articles 18 and 32. article 18 refers to best practice, stating that experiences gained at both national and regional and local levels are disseminated and used in other countries. i think that we could really make a significant contribution to other countries in this respect, for example through volunteering activities, such as firefighting, which can be carried out in many other regions and countries. i therefore strongly hope that this will be the case. article 32 refers to the abolition of administrative difficulties, especially for border regions with special needs. i couldn't agree more.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, we thank you for being here with us today, because in this period of generalized siesta which has taken, alas, the commission and parliament as well, i am very pleased that you have brought us here to discuss the future of europe and we also hope that your generous effort will help us to actually bring, together with other states of the european union and our institutions, a little light into this continuing crisis. we quite agree with his institutional vision and we share what he said about lisbon. we can even agree that ratification must continue, but we also think that france and the netherlands will not be able to agree on the same text, and moreover, in our view, its double strategy is due to the weakness of the political responses. we are caught in a blatant contradiction. if the european union is to be loved by its citizens, it must prove that it works, but in recent years no major initiative has been taken on the environment, on the labour market, on peace, development, human rights, the integration of new citizens, and so there is only one thing to say: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we cannot win over the majority of our citizens with the idea of a federal, democratic and peaceful union by relying on absolutely worrying examples such as the american, chinese or indian. even the socialists who did not vote or the greens who did not vote for the constitution will not be able to be won over by the idea that we must follow the same growth as the americans, the chinese or the indians because that creates poverty, consumption and waste of resources. i should like to point out, mr president, that in your speech you never once mentioned the major environmental and ecological challenges we face, a sign, alas, that the greens' exit from your government may even set back your thinking on the question of sustainability. we also think that, alas, to talk about a european army in a situation in which we as europeans are stuttering in most crises and are obliged to follow the americans and where our credibility on all human rights issues and on the question of peace and disarmament is dramatically losing speed, it is clear that to talk about an army is perhaps an excessive leap forward which we do not share. mr president, we are of the opinion that a european constitution is indeed necessary and that we must find ways of winning over the citizens behind this term, but it is certainly not with more market, more liberalization, more arms that we could do this and only by really changing europe's policies towards greater sustainability that we will succeed. (applause from the left)
mr president, mr verhofstadt, europe is a great ideal, it is our history, it is our future. europe is our culture, our values, it is the western civilization which believes in freedom, tolerance, the centrality of the individual and peace and which therefore cannot renounce its christian roots. that is why we cannot think of the union as a mere bureaucracy far from the people and an institution concerned only with dictating rules on so many small matters. the problem is that in order to involve the conscience of the people, we need a europe which responds to the most important needs of the citizens, as the text of the constitutional treaty signed in rome provides. to overcome the current crisis, the union needs a treaty that brings europe closer to its people. we therefore place great confidence in the german-led semester to achieve a goal for which we are all working. europe needs to strengthen itself in a context of indispensable transatlantic relations, it needs political unity to face some major challenges. firstly, the fight against terrorism in order to build peace in the middle east and the balkans. secondly, growth and development in the spirit of the lisbon process, without breaking certain rules to which science must also be subject, and by promoting the rapid liberalization of services. thirdly: economic and trade confrontation with china and india, two large emerging countries which are, however, preparing an alliance between themselves; challenge number four: the energy question, including nuclear energy; fifth: immigration and the african emergency; sixthly, the enlargement of the frontiers, starting with the accession of romania and bulgaria and then croatia, without closing the doors to other applicant countries. we will only overcome these challenges if we succeed in transforming europe, which is today too much shaped by bureaucracy, into a europe of citizens, politics and values.
the european parliament has repeatedly called for the closure of guantanamo bay and we are still calling for it today. human rights are violated here, torture is commonplace, and we have recently even discovered that 60 minors are being illegally detained at guantanamo. guantanamo is an extra legem place, where terrorists or suspected terrorists are held without due process of law. guantanamo is a symbol of victory, of barbarism over the rule of law, but i would like to say to the minister, guantanamo is not an anomaly, unfortunately, guantanamo is just the tip of the iceberg because lately it is thought that we are fighting terrorism using the same barbaric tools of terrorism and that is leading to defeat. if we think about how war is fueling international terrorism, we have a clear idea of what is happening right now. terrorist attacks are the most obvious manifestation of the transition from the rule of law to the rule of nature, and we must therefore restore democratic rules, we must restore the primacy of politics and defend the rule of law. instead, it has chosen to fight on the privileged ground of its opponent, to compete on the denial of human rights, on military control of the civilian population, on the denial of the core principles of democracy and on the primacy of security. the images of guantanamo or abu ghraib are the emblem of the victory of the culture of terrorism over the rule of law, they are the clear sign of the defeat of those who often declare that they want to fight terrorism, also because those images broadcast by television stations all over the world are a vital source of life for extremist fundamentalism, just as secret prisons or the abductions carried out by the american secret services by the cia on european territory. we cannot be complicit in this barbarism or be a casual observer, and i conclude by saying that the idea of defeating terrorism by any means is a mistake. there's only one way to defeat terrorism: safeguard the rule of law.
trade is a fundamental tool in the current international scenario. trade agreements between countries can ensure political stability and provide a solid foundation for diplomatic arrangements that may be more or less durable. they are therefore increasingly the main actors in a world based on fundamentally economic principles. trade is therefore a very important vehicle and opportunity for economic and social development, but it is also a weapon, in the hands of developed countries in particular, which should be used with caution because it can irreversibly decide the future of a country or a geographical area. it is therefore absolutely essential that the western countries make a conscious effort to ensure that current trade practices and new agreements help to bridge the differences between the north and the south, rather than amplifying them with dynamics that do not take account of national specificities. if liberalisation is a global and now irreversible process, which can bring prosperity and wealth by creating new opportunities in the developing countries, it must nevertheless be regulated in the light of the different realities in which it is sought to be achieved, and accompanied by specific measures so that economic development accompanies, and does not override, appropriate and necessary developments in other fundamental areas such as health, education and social policies.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to congratulate mr vidal-quadras on his excellent report. this report demonstrates why high energy efficiency needs to be on the agenda of the european union. constantly increasing energy efficiency levels is the most important viable long-term policy in order to achieve a sustainable, competitive and secure energy policy for europe. i am pleased to say that the commission is already in line with most of the calls from parliament. indeed, we will integrate your considerations into our forthcoming action plan on energy efficiency, together with the results of the public hearing. i expect the action plan to be adopted just after the summer break. in addition, these considerations will be part of the commission’s work in the broader context. i note the call on the commission to be consistent with existing legislation. i agree. the action plan will build on existing legislation, and will focus on practical measures. i also agree with your request for regular updates on the state of implementation of the directives dealing with energy efficiency. proper implementation and enforcement will determine the success of any eu policy. this will, therefore, be the first priority in our action plan. you rightly point out that in these times of high energy prices, the 9% consumption reduction target over nine years in the directive on end-use efficiency and energy services may well be on the low side. on this issue, i would like to mention the following: the commission is launching a comprehensive study on the energy efficiency potential in the different member states. this study will give a clear overview of national potentials and the commission will compare this with the ambition levels in the member states. in this way, we hope to increase the ambition levels of the member states. in relation to financial issues, we work with international financing institutions to integrate energy efficiency into their lending strategy. the refurbishment of existing buildings, with an emphasis on social housing, is already part of the european regional development fund in the new programming period. however, it is up to the member states to ensure that they use this possibility. i agree that fiscal measures can be a very effective instrument to further energy efficiency. regarding financial incentives to speed up market transformation, the commission is considering a number of options in the impact assessment report on the action plan. i agree that public authorities should lead by example, in particular through their public procurement policy. they can make a substantial difference towards market transformation. we will closely follow how member states integrate energy efficiency requirements into public procurement guidelines, as they are required to do under the energy services directives. in this respect, i also agree with your call for more public information and education, and this will make up the third part of our action plan – behavioural changes. i will comment briefly on minimum efficiency standards for energy-using products, as well as labelling. the dynamic setting of minimum efficiency standards is embedded in the eco-design directive. at the same time, we need to ensure predictability for investment planning by the industry. as regards labelling, this will also be looked at in the action plan in connection with awareness-raising. i am encouraged by your call on the commission and the member states to deploy more initiatives to increase energy efficiency in transport. all options should be seriously considered. the commission will soon be coming forward with a mid-term review of the transport policy, and transport will also be one of the areas for action in the energy efficiency action plan. on external relations, i agree that energy efficiency should be – in fact, it already is – a part of our relations with both energy suppliers and with the consuming regions. dialogues on this issue are being held with russia, opec, the united states, china, japan and india. however, there is room for more action, both to make full use of the competitive advantage that we already have through existing technologies, but also because it is important in fighting climate change and ensuring security of supply. i think there is complete agreement between your report and our work, and i would ask you to continue your strong support for our work in the energy efficiency field. i should like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs once again for this excellent report.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, i would like to make just two brief points in a minute. we have tried to say that we must be more determined to consider transport efficiency as the heart of a strategy to integrate the policies of competitiveness, sustainability, security of energy supply. i hope, therefore, that you, commissioner, will do as you have said, and we will be watching. secondly, it must be recognized that in road transport the average efficiency of the conversion chains is surprisingly low and that a change of pace is required. this represents a huge potential for savings if we take it as the priority value for defining product quality and as a prerequisite for the introduction of future hydrogen converters. so, certainly research and development is the hope, but let's start right away doing what is possible based on proven technologies that exist and possible system integrations.
the recent crisis in the distribution of russian natural gas supplies has highlighted europe's dependence on imported energy sources, which is expected to increase significantly in the coming years. controlling eu energy demand could prove to be an important component of solving the problem. it will help to achieve greater economic efficiency, generate a positive employment trend and help to raise the competitiveness of european industry, all of which are in line with the objectives of the lisbon strategy. in addition to setting new objectives, we must consider existing legislation: if member states were to adopt it in full, the union's 20% energy saving target by 2010 would already be 50% achieved today. the report proposes that energy efficiency objectives be integrated into other sectoral policies, such as fiscal policy, transport policy or cohesion policy. i believe that the funds earmarked for eu regional policy should also be used to finance interregional and crossborder projects which allow for a transfer of know-how between member states and regions which lack the appropriate technological assets to implement greater energy efficiency.
i would like to thank mrs niebler for her excellent work both in committee and in the negotiations with the presidency, the commission and the shadow rapporteurs in parliament. i am very proud of my role as group coordinator of the committee on women's rights. i am also glad that this directive is coming to an end, because it contains a number of things which must make parliament happy to approve it today. i would like to make three points: the first is that it gives us all an argument to answer to those who ask us what europe is doing for lisbon, after having so much propaganda about its contents. a few months ago i was having difficulties because they were talking to me mainly about the budget and asking me how much money we are giving to the objectives set out in those documents. but today i am responding, for example, with this directive, that is to say, by saying that, since we are calling with lisbon for the entry of women into the world of work, we consider this to be a fundamental element in order to be able to maintain a europe with the social state that we all want to defend, while at the same time being aware that, as we ask women to do these things, we must also give them additional guarantees: that is the first reason for pride and satisfaction. the second point is that with this directive we are continuing on the path of good administration by reducing the directives on this subject from seven to one and therefore better regulation is also demonstrated by this directive. the third point concerns the content, which is obviously the most important aspect, and which has already been summarized and presented by mr niebler and the commission. i'll just add a few things: in all the countries of the union, even those which are considered to be the most historically advanced in their policies towards women, the problems of discrimination in particular in the areas of pay, access to employment, training and even indirect discrimination have been raised in recent months. i believe that this directive is an answer to the following problems: i am therefore pleased and thank you once again for the work you have done.
mr president, i very much welcome the willingness of our institutions to combat a problem which constantly and seriously threatens the soundness of our social model. equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of community law, as laid down in articles 2 and 3 of the treaty. despite the eu's leading role in defending the rights of citizens and workers, gender-based discrimination, both direct and indirect, is unfortunately still a common phenomenon in many member states. the very conditions of access to the world of work, contractual realities or the availability of services to support families, parents and relatives of people in need, to name just a few examples, in fact seriously interfere with the free personal choice of many women to pursue a professional activity at the same level as their male colleagues. the call on the member states to put in place a deterrent system of sanctions for possible cases of discrimination is therefore a necessary and urgent action which requires rapid transposition by all the competent national authorities.
mr president, i too want to speak on this extremely sensitive subject which has been tackled with great intelligence and attention by our colleague. i too would like to focus on three fundamental points which have been highlighted in the report and which i wish to stress here. the first concerns the ancient evils of violence in war: i believe that the modern response to these ancient evils that we all know and that i will not even remember, can be one, in a word zero tolerance by the whole world that recognizes itself in democracy, like ours. the second point: zero tolerance means many things, it also means harshness in the prosecution of these crimes and the unacceptability of any kind of justification. the second point is newer and is that the woman herself is seen to be violent. this may happen again in part as a victim, as in the case of the female suicide bombers who are often used again, but it must be recognized that there are cases where women in the name of the principle of equality have exercised violence like others. in this case, too, no tolerance, let's call it that, of the gender. there is a third point which is of particular concern to me and which i would like to stress more strongly: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to see them sitting at all the tables where peace and reconstruction are discussed. i believe that the presence of women in this sector is the modern and democratic offer that our world can offer, the true new offer of novelty.
mr president, i too congratulate the rapporteur on her report, which is very well done. i will deal with only two points. i would like to stress that the nature of conflict has changed in recent years, and one of the most tragic changes that has occurred is the increase in sexual violence against women. this is because women are considered to be bearers of cultural identity, and since gender-based violence carries both a symbolic and a political message, gender-based violence has become a strategy of war. the new nature of conflict means that there are very few mechanisms to protect girls and women and it is therefore imperative to strengthen prevention, but prevention does not come from nothing. concrete steps must be taken and designed and implemented through a system of early warning and early response. gender-based violence, rape, prostitution related to the armed forces are preventive indicators of possible conflicts, as is the decrease in the presence of women in civil society and political parties, as seen in the case of afghanistan. so, first: the importance of this early warning system; second: it is essential that women are included in all stages of the peacebuilding process so that they are not imprisoned or imprisoned less than men in traditional patterns of conflict behaviour. this must be done, but it is not yet happening, and so we are asking for quotas so that women are present in all peace negotiation processes.
mr president, with regard to the vote on the question of paediatric medicines, i just wanted to point out that, after the six-month extension of the patent granted to the multinationals in the sector at first reading, i think it was really excessive to extend the transitional period within which it is possible to apply for this supplementary protection certificate from two to five years. that is why i voted against amendment no 18, also considering the lack of scientific documentation of the benefit to the paediatric population. the adoption of this amendment could also encourage the search for paediatric indications for medicines intended for adult use, which is contrary to one of the aims of the regulation.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention and that of this house to the very worrying news coming out of iran, particularly with regard to the repression of a demonstration of women activists who had gathered to demand, amongst many other things, the recognition of fundamental rights, such as the elimination of polygamy, equal rights in divorce, equal rights for women to testify before the court of justice and, finally, the extension of temporary employment contracts, which currently offer very negative conditions for women. this demonstration led to the arrest of one person and the interrogation by the police of many other protesters. i hope, therefore, that you, mr president, and this parliament will not leave these women alone, since they are demonstrating to obtain the recognition of rights which are considered absolutely normal anywhere else in the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, apart from your valuable personal commitment, what we have heard is not enough. i believe that europe needs two integrated approaches to this issue. the first approach must aim at breaking the unfortunate triangle linking victims, traffic and customers. it is certainly a concrete and demanding action programme, a genuine european cooperation which, as you said, can only exist in the medium or long term. we shall be following closely what you propose in this direction, bearing in mind that this aspect is certainly not limited to the world cup. however, if what you wanted is to become a political priority for all of us, we need the involvement of citizens in strong, visible campaigns with great symbolic value, so that the real european demos can be established by building a notion of supranational citizenship. it must be admitted that this second aspect has been missing in the commission's role. the political parties with the pse campaign, the committee on women's rights and parliament have moved, but the commission has not moved. we could use the opportunity to create a space for the self-representation of the common civilization we intend to build, which constitutes the ethical framework of the european public space. europe is not present at the world cup and this weakens the very communication plan which the commission has proposed to us, albeit with great pomp, namely plan d. i would be worried if i thought that the commission did not really make any imaginative and diligent efforts, because it feels it is wrong to spoil the party - a party that involves so many economic and advertising interests - and perhaps it does not think it is appropriate to use it to make millions of spectators understand that the framework law that provides for the criminalization of those who force individuals into prostitution must be applied. if that were the case, i would be concerned, but i hope that is not the case. i hope that you will help us in this direction and make some symbolic gestures. for example, before you go cheering for your team and mine, you raise your red card too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i agree with you that human trafficking is a modern form of slavery. unfortunately, for psychological and cultural reasons, the public underestimates the seriousness of human trafficking for the exploitation of prostitution compared to, for example, drugs and illicit money. however, this trafficking is of an even more odious nature and must be fought more vigorously and effectively. we have proposed effective instruments, such as the establishment of a european hotline. we know that it is very difficult to get all the companies to agree, but we ask you to insist, because this is an effective tool. we also call for a harmonised system for data collection, with common definitions, indicators, measures and methods. finally, we need clear strategies with a focus on objectives. the existence of widespread illegal prostitution within the european territory, for example, should not only be seen as a breach of immigration rules, but also as a warning sign of the strength of organised crime. that is why the issue of human trafficking should be separated from that of immigration, to be brought back to the issue of organized crime. the commission has also taken steps to combat trafficking in human beings, including the use of drugs, and to combat trafficking in human beings. we can 't have people saying , "but we don't know". if we allow the problem to be ignored, we cannot speak of sexual liberation, but of criminal oppression. if the customers are aware, they will be reprehensible not for a problem of perbenism or moralism, but of civil liability and objective complicity with the racket. finally, in order to break the network of complicity and ties of dependence, it is important that the work of ngos, which are the real and possible interlocutors with the victims of trafficking, whose role is often underestimated and sometimes even opposed by the institutional authorities, be given value.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank all those who have spoken in the debate. i agree with most of the comments i have heard. firstly, this is not a tragic emergency at the world cup, but a modern form of slavery which will unfortunately continue to affect hundreds of thousands and probably millions of young women. it is therefore clear that we must not confine ourselves to the football world cup. for this reason, as i have already said, we will be organising a workshop immediately after the world cup, during which we will be gathering all the experiences of this month and drawing conclusions to draw up a document which will be useful for all other sporting events of this type, but also for cultural or political events. for example, at the hanover expo a few years ago, german police authorities noted an increase in forced prostitution. there's been a lot of talk about the hotlines. in the urgency of giving an answer, and precisely because we believe that ngos should play a role in this project, it was decided to entrust the management of two multilingual helplines, which are already active, to a particularly well-known ngo in germany solvodi which has provided h24 coverage during this period. let me add that, as we have done for the protection of children who are victims of violence, the commission also intends to support the european helplines financially. unfortunately, it was not possible to implement this project under the 2006 budget, but i believe that we will be able to implement it under the 2007 budget. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the regions concerned. a lot has been said about communication and information. i fully agree with mr vincenzi when he recommends that we spoil the party if necessary, and therefore avoid silence when there are strong messages to be given. i must admit that we have had a short time and that i have had the institutional need to concentrate on prevention and rapid reaction activities which, of course, will be accompanied by information campaigns. i am also prepared to make a financial contribution to information campaigns on this subject. in addition, as i have already said, we have for the first time activated the network of consulates of the member states in the countries of origin, because we believe that it is in those countries that the information campaign for potential victims must be stronger and more widespread. i certainly agree that the concept of trafficking in human beings and trafficking for sexual exploitation should be separated from the issue of immigration, as these are two totally different issues. you know that we are monitoring the implementation of the european legislation in force, first of all the framework decision, which has to be transposed by the member states and which keeps this matter absolutely separate from the immigration issue. victims are victims, not illegal immigrants, and therefore entitled to benefit from those assistance programmes already provided for in some member states for persons who report that they have been victims of exploitation, or even worse, of forced trafficking for sexual purposes. i also share mr breyer's call for long-term initiatives such as the european day against trafficking in human beings and i hope that by the first half of next year we will be able to set a firm date for this initiative. as i said, i am in favour of reducing demand. however, to know the impact of demand for prostitution on trafficking it is absolutely necessary that analyses are carried out, although some have claimed the opposite. we started working together on this issue earlier this year and i can tell you that we have acquired many new elements. we now know with some precision what the trafficking routes are, we know what the main countries of origin are, we know through which member states of the european union the buses carrying small groups of girls to germany pass. i can also tell you that, although the police figures are difficult to explain, in recent months hundreds of checks have been carried out, not only in germany but also in many transit countries such as poland, hungary and the czech republic, which have led to the arrest and detention of those responsible for trafficking in young women. on the basis of these elements and thanks to the cooperation between the police forces, we were able to reduce the potential impact to a percentage which, however, we are not yet able to determine, because the hundreds of people who were checked and arrested were heading for germany. i would therefore like to express my appreciation for the conduct of the german authorities. mr batzeli asked how the german authorities were working on the ground. i can confirm that they work well, both at federal and at länder level. when you read the final report at the end of the world cup, you will find out what we are also finding out, that the checks have been strengthened and that many cases have been detected where false declarations of short-term stay, for example to work in a bar or to perform domestic work, were actually hiding victims of sexual exploitation. the victims have been identified and the perpetrators have probably been arrested. in conclusion, i would reiterate that the root causes must be tackled. there is a european action plan, which you supported last december, which we must now implement, starting from consideration of the inviolable nature of the human right and dignity of every person. that's what we'll be working on over the next few months.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the common position defined by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of groundwater against pollution (12062/1/2005 - c6-0055/2006 - 2003/0210 (cod)) (rapporteur: christa klaß) (a6-0146/2006).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank mr seeber for his work. i would like to emphasize the added value that this document can bring to the union, since these are global events requiring global action. action at union level cannot be limited to river basins covering several countries, because the problem affects all river basins. to address this problem, good practices in land surveying and long-term prevention, mainly through land maintenance, need to be used. in this connection, i would also like to stress the added value that such an approach can represent for the organisation of a satellite monitoring service for the territory, which is also absolutely necessary to provide a common framework for action by the civil protection forces which must also operate outside the borders of the member states. i believe that the effective response to these problems does not require excessive bureaucracy, but rather the ability to provide examples and good practice to ensure the highest levels of prevention and response capacity. i would also like to refer to the document on cartography presented by mr brepoels. in order to intervene we must have a georeferenced map. in a situation where maps are available on magnetic support and satellite management, it is ridiculous that obstacles are being put in the way of selling maps on paper.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, in september 2005 parliament adopted the resolution on sustainable tourism and about a month later, on 21 october, in malta, in an important but certainly informal meeting i am referring to the forum of trade unions and associations i had the opportunity to hear your speech in which you, without referring to the parliamentary debate, took up many of the points we had made in this house and in committee. on that occasion you did not make any assumption that a european tourism policy would be abolished because the constitution had not yet been adopted. but there had already been the "no"s of france and the netherlands in the referendums. although it certainly seems unlikely that the common tourism policy can replace national ones, european supporting action is still possible. this support can take the form of financial support and administrative cooperation, pilot projects and guidelines to implement, as the experience of the structural funds shows, a genuine sector policy, guiding the choices of public bodies and economic operators. moreover, while it is not possible to harmonise the laws and regulations of the member states, the european institutions may do so where this is necessary for the functioning of the internal market or where there is a specific legal basis, such as in the case of consumer, transport and environmental protection. i do not think there is any justification for the vacuum in which this communication is going and for the absence of a european tourism policy. i think, commissioner, that a closer relationship with parliament would also benefit your role.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i agree with the rapporteur, mrs vincenzi, and i also believe that the commission can coordinate a great deal if it is really of good will, even if the constitution is not yet in force. i thank mr queiró for bringing this matter to the table. i would like to limit myself to two points, namely the seasonality that has been eliminated and the sustainability of the entire tourism industry. the problem of seasonality in the tourism industry was highlighted by well-known speakers and panelists at a conference in brussels last thursday. the negative impact is mainly on the employed self-employed and wage-earners. they are overworked in the high season, unemployed in the off-season. the same applies to tourist destinations - on the one hand they are overcrowded, on the other empty ghost towns. what am i trying to say? the commission should urgently address this imbalance as a european problem and seek solutions with the member states and regions. sustainability: this is the main reason why i believe the commission should be more involved in tourism policy. we have enough examples where excessive tourism has so damaged nature that entire natural and cultural landscapes have been destroyed and thus the essential economic basis for tourism itself. the most sustainable means of transport is the railway. the main means of transportation for about 100 years, it is now almost completely forgotten. it is time to rediscover it for tourism. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question.
the agenda for the joint debate is: - the report by mr jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the seventh framework programme of community activities in the field of research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007-2013) (com (2005) 0119 - c6-0099/2005 - 2005/0043 (cod)) (a6-0202/2006), and - the report by mr jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the seventh framework programme of the european atomic energy community (euratom) for research and training activities in the nuclear field (2007-2011) - building europe's knowledge (com (2005) 0191 - c6-0121/2005 - 2005/0044 (cns) 0203-066).
i would remind the honourable member that we cannot resume the debate in the legal affairs committee. it is clear that mr saklas is acting on his own responsibility.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to greet commissioner potočnik and thank mr buzek for his work with the shadow rapporteurs' working group, which i believe has produced important consensus results. i would first like to emphasize the political aspect of the seventh framework programme, which represents the pursuit of excellence at european level. this is important because, as a result of the leap in scale that globalisation has brought us, research must also take on a european dimension, so as not to risk being erased from the political and scientific map of the world. the seventh framework programme contains important innovations, such as the european research council already mentioned. i would also like to mention the technological platforms which we in the committee wanted to see in order to involve our small, medium and large industries more fully in the research, development and innovation effort. all enterprises must be able to create a climate favourable to development and, consequently, to overall competitiveness. the technological platforms are extremely important, also thanks to the participation of local institutions, universities and research centres. they also provide an appropriate incentive for small and medium-sized enterprises, subject to the rules on participation. it is therefore a question of giving small and mediumsized enterprises the capacity to take decisions and to influence decisions in this respect too. i would like to stress the importance of science and society. i believe that risk analysis and management are examples of the kind of education we need to give to citizens, in order to acquire the capacity to make informed decisions. i too am disappointed that the resources available are not adequate for the role that research and development should play in europe. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the commissioner for his efforts to double the funding for the seventh framework programme, but i must say that, by agreeing to the downgrade of the financial perspective, europe has missed a historic opportunity to target the knowledge society, which is all too often mentioned in the lisbon strategy, and which, if it does not achieve cultural growth and social cohesion, risks becoming a purely commercial objective. we have missed the expectations of the european continent for this growth. we welcome the commission's decision to relaunch basic research in europe after years of almost one-sided priorities in support of applied research in industry. to this end, a dedicated funding programme with new rules for participation was introduced and a new independent body to assess scientific excellence was set up. one of the positive aspects of the seventh framework programme is the support and training of european researchers. research is one of the fields where human potential is perhaps more important than economic instruments and infrastructure. the conditions must be created to facilitate the movement of scientists within europe, to reverse the brain drain from the european continent and to attract new researchers from non-european countries. there is still concern about possible delays in the implementation of the seventh framework programme in january next year, as we still have to go through the approval phases of the specific programmes and the rules of participation. i would like to focus on the individual areas of intervention, starting with medical research. we must pay more attention to this type of research, giving priority to prevention, for example in the field of occupational diseases and safety at work, as we have tried to do with the amendment we have tabled and which we will be tabled again in the house on behalf of the group of the european people's party. as regards the ethical problems of medical research, i believe that the text adopted by the committee on industry, research and energy represents a balancing act, as the commissioner has pointed out, since it states that research activities aimed at human cloning, inducing heritable mutations in the human genome or creating human embryos cannot be funded. however, the need for public medical research in the field of stem cells is recognized, not for profit but rather for the improvement of medical knowledge. i think that is a value on which we should find a synthesis within parliament. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life. i personally think that the european effort in fusion research is important as a counter to nuclear fission energy. i would like to conclude by saying that, although the qualitative leap has not been made, the seventh framework programme is a step forward towards the creation of a genuinely european research area and for this i thank mr buzek and all the shadow rapporteurs for the work they have done.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as shadow rapporteur for the seventh framework programme and rapporteur for the specific programme on people, i must first of all thank mr buzek and all the colleagues with whom we have tackled this difficult task, aware of the need to do it quickly and properly, even in the absence of an agreement on the financial perspective. i would also like to thank my colleagues on the committee on industry, research and energy and mr chichester, who, with his wisdom and foresight, has scheduled the work so that the council's delay does not affect the outcome. finally, i should like to thank the officials and assistants who have worked long and hard to prepare the work and to research and study the points which could lead to - and have thus been - to meaningful and honourable compromises. that said, before i address some of the significant points of the framework programme and in particular of the specific programme on people, i would like to dwell on the philosophy of the legislative system and the political data. the philosophy was to build a european research area that was autonomous and at the same time capable of attracting new talent and ensuring that those born and raised in europe did not emigrate. the philosophy was also to involve industry and smes and to open up the horizons for research funding and innovative technologies. the objective was achieved in terms of plant, but certainly not in terms of resources. the political data is practically linked to the financial data, and both are linked to the much abused and inflated lisbon strategy. in lisbon, europe set itself the target of returning to the world stage by 2010. the pessimism of reason leads us to believe that this objective cannot be achieved, since other aggressive and powerful actors are operating on the world stage, with a wealth of means and resources such as to make our effort insignificant, which has not been and is not, from the point of view of financial resources, up to the task. this is a shortsighted move on the part of the member states, who have sacrificed the general interest to the interests of their national budgets. however, while regretting what could have been done better or more, it is right to take note, with optimism and hope, of the fact that much significant progress has been made. i am referring to the creation of the european research area, the member states' responsibility for applying the european charter for researchers, the inclusion of small and mediumsized enterprises among the competitors and beneficiaries of research projects. amendment no 334, signed by the various groups, is significant in this respect and i recommend that it be adopted. as for the specific programme 'people', thanks to a close synergy with the competent directorate-general of the commission and the shadow rapporteurs, the figure of the researcher becomes systematic, acquires its own dignity and distinctive features, becomes a profession in its own right and is protected and safeguarded as such. researchers and women researchers, who are recognized as having the right to maternity and to their own family sphere, without this being prejudicial to their careers, are the most important element of research. no researchers means no research, few researchers means little research and many researchers means a lot of research. the presence of researchers who are economically and socially protected, mobile and have their own charter, which is finally applied by all the member states, means that europe is rich in talent and therefore at the forefront of innovation, which is an essential step in building the knowledge society. i would like to make one final comment on the additional budget which has been allocated to the 'people' programme on the proposal of mr prodi and by unanimous decision of the shadow rapporteurs, whom i thank. this is a clear sign that man's philosophy, as the driving force of research, is correct and victorious.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the fact that we welcome the seventh framework programme, which is finally the first concrete and effective instrument for boosting europe's global competitiveness and providing an important stimulus for investment in innovation in support of european enterprises, and above all small and mediumsized enterprises. this is a first step towards achieving the lisbon objectives, on which much has been said but very little has been done. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. this is another reason why it is crucial that the programme aims to enhance human resources and, in particular, to encourage young people to take up research careers, thus avoiding brain drain. it should be noted, however, that the funds of the seventh framework programme should in no way finance research on human cloning, genetic mutations and the use of embryonic stem cells. that is why we have signed amendments which clarify the allocation of funds, in compliance with national legislation. research must certainly be continued, but it must not be at any cost. we must be clear and uncompromising in our opposition to any funding of studies involving genetic and embryonic manipulation, which are not only contrary to ethical values and respect for human life and dignity, but also to the protection of public health.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the seventh framework programme is the child of a europe which is unfortunately in decline, despite its allocation of 50.524 billion over seven years. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. europe is weak. the only compromise that has been reached on the financial perspective for 2007-13 is insufficient for the european parliament, the european commission and european research. the multiannual budget agreement, which is a legacy of a europe still in disarray because of the non-ratification of the constitutional treaty, reflects the difficulties of a not very encouraging economic cycle and has therefore not allowed the doubling of financial commitments for the immediate future of european research, as was hoped, with the good peace of the lisbon agenda. this framework programme, the first in the community of twenty-five, is a choice which is essentially continuous with the previous one. the latter recognizes the importance of research cooperation, which is the characteristic of a positive-sum europe, has an eye towards small and medium-sized enterprises, for which it facilitates the transfer of research content through technological platforms, and is careful to balance bureaucratic costs. the programme also intends to innovate by establishing the european research council, a new instrument which will be distinguished by its ability to aggregate european research by acting as a terminal for excellence. the doubts raised about the need to create this new body are not few and far between. these doubts remain in the light of the debate on its independence and autonomy, but may disappear in the face of the behaviour and results that the european research council will be able to maintain and produce. so i wish you all a good day's work. we will take the utmost care to ensure that the european research council does not become yet another european bureaucratic barrack. our children would never forgive us. the only question that remains open is the one that most touches our conscience with different sensibilities, namely the question of ethics. it is not written that the european union wants to finance human cloning. the commission is free to finance projects which pass a double evaluation on the content of the individual project and on the basis of the national regulations in force. that seems to me to be a good compromise acceptable to all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank commissioner potočnik, mr buzek and all the shadow rapporteurs for the atmosphere of cooperation they have been able to create in the preparation of this seventh framework programme. europe needs to make great improvements in producing new knowledge through basic research, in disseminating it through education and training and in applying it through innovation, including in small and medium-sized enterprises. these are the conditions for achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy. the seventh framework programme is moving in this direction. as regards new knowledge, the european research council has been set up as the engine of basic research. i welcome this new revival of basic research, research at the frontier of knowledge which promotes dynamism, competitiveness and creativity at the highest level. this new body, which responds to the urgent demand of the european scientific community, will have to be characterized by independence in scientific evaluation, the simplicity of procedures and the speed of decision-making. parliament has clearly emphasized and reiterates that excellence must be the sole criterion guiding the selection. as regards the legal structure of the european research council, i hope that the trilogue will allow further convergence towards a more shared solution. as regards human resources, their importance should be emphasized. researchers are a vital link between new knowledge and its application to innovative technologies and processes. this link does not work well in europe and it is an indication of this malfunctioning that although europe produces twice as many phds as the united states, in the usa the number of phds in industry is twice as high as in europe. it is no coincidence that as many as 400 000 european science and technology graduates are currently in the united states. we need new researchers to get to 8 researchers per thousand employees, men and women. at this stage, women have a major contribution to make, since they represent only 29% of the scientific community, and there is a need to identify tools to facilitate their entry into this career, such as work-life balance measures for men and women. the new constitutional treaty provided for the creation of the european research area. i would like to stress the concept of a 'european area for researchers', that is to say a single labour market whose development can also be facilitated by the creation of a european association or umbrella of associations of researchers which can be a useful instrument for strengthening their role in the european context. a final recommendation is regarding embryonic stem cells. it is a question of affirming the principle of freedom of research, which must be subject to scientific rigor as a fundamental constraint. in addition, research should be given the possibility of public scrutiny in particularly sensitive areas of research. i therefore ask that the position of the committee on industry, research and energy be confirmed, which reconciles the views of those who are in favour of and those who are against embryonic stem cell research.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe must achieve a higher rate of growth and, to this end, it has relied on knowledge, which means research, training, information, the development of ict, and so on. the most ambitious objective we have set ourselves is perhaps the seventh framework programme, which today represents the european added value that is indispensable to achieve this result. i shall confine myself to two aspects. in this major plan we have worked to ensure widespread accessibility which is not the opposite of selectivity, but rather the condition for it. we want all the realities of the research world to be able to participate, and i am also referring to women scientists. this also applies to production, starting with small and mediumsized enterprises, which have a vital need for innovation but require special attention. i am referring to the problem of procedures, and we are asking the commission not to lose but rather to increase its efforts to simplify, facilitate and support smes during the implementation phase. the second aspect concerns research, which has clear and essential ethical profiles. only a dull cynicism and a view of pure scientism can make us ignore these aspects. it is therefore right to recognize them and, if possible, to find solutions which respect these profiles, which concern man and his dignity. in particular, there is a relevant issue which divides us within the various groups. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's research programmes are not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the community's already very limited resources for this purpose could be more effectively concentrated in those areas which, thanks to their research development, already offer the closest prospects of success for human health, such as the use of adult stem cells and other alternatives, leaving to the individual member states any other field of research development. these are transversal positions which also require listening and respect. when we discuss matters which are intimately connected with man and life in our parliamentary chambers, which are more used to discussing the economy or other concrete issues, i think we need a little more wisdom and perhaps also listening and dialogue.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it would be rather strange if, in a europe still lagging behind in archaic and dangerous technologies such as nuclear technology, which it would be good to abandon, a kind of veto were instead placed on the research and practice of new technologies which may prove essential in saving the lives of many people through the use of stem cells. it's not that we don't have a strong ethic on these issues. in fact, i'm against human cloning. it is different to want to impose ideological and a priori views which compromise not only research and science but above all the right of everyone to his or her own life. the european parliament has the right and the duty to respond fully to these expectations. for this reason, this research plan is also called the 'europe project'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the seventh framework programme was supported by this parliament in the awareness that the challenge for the competitiveness and development of the nations of the entire continent lies in the revival of research opportunities. i think that the financial effort should be stepped up. if 3% of investment in the european union is allocated to research and development by 2010, it may be possible to alleviate the shortage of some 700 000 researchers currently registered in the union. public support for research remains necessary in sensitive areas such as health, energy and the environment, and i think there is a great deal of agreement in this house. however, this support cannot come only from the european institutions. they should instead encourage national governments to increase the financial allocation for research in their budgets and thus improve working conditions in the sector, both in terms of the possibilities for developing public human resources and in terms of promoting private investment and public-private synergies. the problems of research and development are not the same in europe. it is the different working conditions and prospects for young researchers and their transition from academic studies to the world of work. for example, in italy, the relationship between universities and enterprises lacks concrete training and apprenticeship opportunities. the simple exchange of information is also lacking. very low wages and limited research funding lead to emigration or, more often, to abandonment of public research in order to pursue more rewarding personal paths of achievement. i hope that the establishment of a european research council will help to fill the gaps in the national systems. the very high number of amendments tabled to this excellent report by mr buzek is a testimony to the interest and priority which parliament attaches to research for the development of our continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall confine myself to the ethical issues. in order to understand these kinds of problems, you first need to understand what we're talking about. firstly, it must be remembered that the question is not whether or not to authorize experimentation on embryos, but whether research projects, which are inevitably destructive, can be financed by the european union, that is to say with money also coming from states which consider the destruction of embryos for experimental purposes to be a serious violation of fundamental rights. secondly, we must consider the foreseeable effects of the research. to date, no therapeutic efficacy has been demonstrated from embryonic stem cells. on the contrary, their carcinogenic effects have been demonstrated in mice. to date, there is not a single publication in the world that demonstrates the therapeutic effects of embryonic stem cells. on the other hand, so-called adult stem cells are already curing many diseases and the prospects are extremely promising, which means that if we really want to save people's health, we must concentrate the few financial resources in the areas where it is easier and faster to achieve the goal than elsewhere. finally, the principle of subsidiarity must be recalled. there are countries where experimentation on embryos calls into question the very concept of human dignity, the very basis of human rights. to admit experimentation on human beings means, in other words, to regard the human being as a thing and not as a human being. it is not a question of labelling, tourism or town planning, but of the very foundation of human rights as conceived, perhaps wrongly, by one state in the place of another. i therefore believe that it is not right that the states which allow embryo testing should be able to impose on the states which do not allow it that they should contribute their money to carrying out the testing in other countries.
those who oppose the use of human embryos for research purposes are in favour of the life and dignity of the human being, because they defend the existence of an embryo which is biologically inclined to life, but which in the specific cases to which reference is made would not see this opportunity because it is destined for destruction. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. it is important to give a signal of openness to research, in the name of the right of every individual to enjoy the best possible conditions of physical and mental health and to take advantage of the extraordinary advances that science can offer. it is right, however, to restrict indiscriminate research (reproductive cloning, chimeras, the creation of embryos specifically for research purposes, etc.) and to check its morality, just as it is right to respect the will of the citizens in member states where ethical questions prevail over progress. for the rest, limiting our possibilities means taking away from many the hope of a better future.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
the human rights situation in tunisia is now taking on dramatic dimensions. the tunisian government has prevented the holding of the congress of the tunisian league for human rights by deploying police and intelligence forces which is unacceptable. i would remind you that the tunisian league is an integral part of the international league for human rights, which is a privileged interlocutor of the european institutions. not only did the police physically prevent the meeting from taking place, but they also harassed my colleague hélène flautre, to whom i express my personal and the entire group's solidarity. i would also like to extend our solidarity to my friend mokhtar trifi, president of the tunisian league for human rights, and to all his collaborators. i would also remind you that the funds which the commission has allocated to projects to promote human rights are being blocked. the whole of the european union is a political hostage of a government which has decided to trample on these rights. so it is time to react. the european commission must stop hiding behind the divisions within the council of the union and behind the veto positions of france in particular. i formally ask the commission to initiate the procedures for convening an extraordinary meeting of the eu-tunisia association council to assess the state of political and civil liberties in the country. we must not be afraid to raise the possibility of suspending the eu-tunisia association agreement on the basis of article 2 thereof. i say this also as rapporteur on the democratic clause, which was unanimously approved by the european parliament, and which gives us all the political legitimacy to ask for this suspension and to urge the urgent convening of the subcommittee on human rights. otherwise, the commission and the council tell us that they intend to remain the servants of a despotic government which, in tunis, claims to tell brussels what to do. in this case, however, i do not think that parliament will be on your side.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new socialist party. the progress made at the last eu-russia summit and the openness to dialogue shown by both sides should be welcomed. it is important that this line be strictly maintained during the negotiations for the next partnership agreement. if energy policy is a priority for europe, it is also essential that the establishment of a fully democratic area, based on respect for human rights and for ethnic and religious minorities, is carefully monitored. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and the many other conflicts that are still raging on our borders, particularly in the south caucasus, without being based on common values. we therefore call on russia to be more open in this respect. the european union has repeatedly called for greater synergy in promoting transparency in the exercise of authority and in combating abuses of civil and human rights, especially in difficult regions such as chechnya, which still laments too low a level of access to international aid and development aid for the region.
member of the commission. madam president, madam member, i am also aware of the situation affecting the indigenous peoples of the area. among other things, the bank's secretary-general, mr reichenbach, analysed and considered this situation during his visit to the area in january. i too thought that the question was exclusively about environmental aspects, but of course the social aspects and the impact on the population - which on the one hand is positive because it creates jobs, but on the other hand can have undoubtedly worrying consequences - are being considered by the bank. the question your colleague asked me was strictly about environmental conditions, and i referred to those in my first answer, but i can assure you that the commission representative at the bank, mr lelakis, is fully aware and is following the impact of the project on the situation of the indigenous peoples in the area.
member of the commission. in its vote of 6 july 2005, parliament rejected the council common position on the directive on computer-implemented inventions, which implies rejection of the proposed directive. as a result, there are no community legal texts which will regulate this issue. the vote and the far-reaching debate which preceded it demonstrated that the time was not ripe for a meaningful piece of legislation to be adopted on this issue. therefore, a new proposal dealing specifically with the patentability of computer-implemented inventions would not be desirable. as a consequence, the legal framework applicable to computer-implemented inventions in europe remains article 52 of the european patent convention, which excludes computer programs as such from patentability. earlier this year, the commission’s directorate-general for the internal market and services launched a broad consultation of all interested parties on the future patent policy in europe, with a particular focus on the structure of the european patent system. the deadline for the consultation was 12 april 2006, and preliminary findings will be discussed with stakeholders at the hearing in brussels on 12 july 2006. consultation is intended to ensure that any further possible action in the area of eu patents policy takes account of all stakeholders’ needs without discrimination. parliament will be duly informed of the results of this consultation. one of the options presented to stakeholders refers to the commission’s proposal for community patent regulation. the commission would like to point out that its possible adoption will not alter the substantive rules governing patentability which are set out in the epc and would not extend patentability to software as such. moreover, the new jurisdiction of the european court of justice would improve the safeguards against the grant of patents in error to a computer program. therefore, the commission does not intend to present a new proposal along the lines of the rejected common position on cii.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, your answer was brief but clear and understandable. thank you for that. i am very pleased with the broad interpretation you have given to the information and the transparency. i would like to have more information from you on one subject. you have stated that the european parliament will be informed. i think it should be included in this decision-making process, and for that reason i would like to know what you think about it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, i can only welcome your speech, because you have rightly emphasized the seriousness of the drug emergency in the european union. i agree with what mr coelho and mr pirker have said, because the fight against drug use and trafficking must be an increasing priority for the union. it is impossible to deal with a growing emergency, which has planetary implications, without the involvement of all supranational institutions and without a constant update of a constantly evolving situation. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's proposal to strengthen the work of the european observatory, with a view to increasingly effective exchange of information on the activities undertaken by the various states and closer cooperation with europol. the use of drugs and addictive substances varies continuously. if yesterday it was heroin that was the most alarming, today it is cocaine that is causing the most concern about its increasing prevalence among young people, along with the deadly mixtures of alcohol used in nightclubs. understanding what is changing to prevent and combat drugs better is a precondition for enhancing the observatory's role. however, in the fight against drugs we must not give in to permissiveness which has so far only led to an increase in addiction. for example, it is unacceptable that a representative of the italian government should have declared that he was in favour of the possibility of controlled drug use through what are called 'hole chambers'. such choices have never restored freedom to young people. in this connection, i would like to quote the words of don gelmini, a priest who is a leading international figure in the fight for the rehabilitation of drug addicts, who said that fighting drugs with drugs is an aberration, it is like reopening asylums to treat the mentally ill.
i am glad that you have changed your mind about what you said a year ago about the constitution. i only hope that he will not change his mind again and that he will be able to show the same determination towards the member states. firstly, if the declaration is to be ready in march and if the european parliament intends to participate in it in any way, i think we should say something different from what we should be voting on tomorrow, namely simply that this text must be maintained and that this constitutional treaty is the only thing that the european parliament can accept. mr leinen, this resolution does not make any progress in the debate on the europe we all want. if we are to achieve anything, we must also clarify the content of our proposal. the member states have not succeeded in doing so, but unfortunately neither have we. secondly, as regards the question of sustainable development, we find some very interesting statements in the final declarations we have received. however, we believe that there are concrete things that must be done and that are not even envisaged. there must be stronger action on climate change, transport and biodiversity, and the eu funds must be used in a more environmentally friendly way. on the contrary, we are now seeing a step backwards, with a series of proposals on air, waste and many other issues that are really leaving us very perplexed. we welcome the renewed emphasis on the importance of transparency, although we believe that it is much more important to monitor effectively the application of community law than to get lost in complicated and very expensive impact assessment procedures. this is a very fashionable trend, but we believe that getting lost in complicated and not particularly transparent procedures is a risk to our democracy. moreover, mr president, we are still faced with a great many problems of transparency and access to documents, and we do not think that the commission is doing enough. we therefore support what the council has done, although we are aware that there is a certain difference between words and deeds, and we have already put forward several proposals and questions which have not been exhausted so far. thirdly, i wanted to address the issue of the external dimension. president winkler, as far as energy is concerned, we are a little concerned that the only priority mentioned in the conclusions is the acquisition of resources and the transfer of these resources to the transit countries, while no mention is made of eco-efficiency and renewable energies. yet these elements have an external dimension, because the fifteen world car manufacturers have an impact on the price of oil that is perhaps equal to that of opec. i think that this silence from europe is a negative element. in addition, in your closing statements you say that you hope that a negotiating mandate for the balkans will be adopted. but who is to give this mandate if not the presidency of the council? i think that in this, in addition to hope, you should be more concrete. i would like to conclude by addressing myself to you, mr winkler, because yesterday when you spoke about tunisia, we were very disappointed and surprised. you said that the ngo funds were unblocked. that is not true, and the commission confirms it. the amount of nine hundred thousand euros for the league of human rights has not been released and i find it extremely negative that the presidency is saying the opposite here. i would ask you to check your sources and let us know whether or not this is true, because this is a very serious element of europe's lack of credibility. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to mention two subjects, namely enlargement and the fight against terrorism. as regards enlargement, i would stress the importance of the compatibility and absorption criteria, which i fear have not been strongly supported by our country in the discussions in the council. there is a very striking issue with terrorism. how is this commitment by the european union compatible with the recent appointment in italy of the former frontline terrorist, mr d'elia, who is guilty of foreign complicity in the murder of an italian policeman? the chain of solidarity of the european left with the new italian government has so far prevented this striking issue from being known and discussed in the european context. this is a shameful fact when one considers that in italy the terrorism of the br and the frontline has affected not only police officers, magistrates, politicians and industrialists, but also trade unionists and representatives of the best labour culture such as professor biagi.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am addressing myself to president barroso because i appreciated his speech this morning in which he spoke words that relaunch the great project of europe. finally, in this house, we have heard the commission speak out loud to give a new impetus to policy, to help the union win its rightful place on the international stage. that is the commission we want and the people want too. it is a commission that is shaking off the burden of bureaucracy, which is the main reason why europeans are being pushed away from the institutions. president barroso, i agree with you. if we give up in the face of difficulties and allow ourselves to be overwhelmed by pessimism, we will not achieve anything. politics cannot lose sight of the great challenge of building a europe which is aware of the role it must play on the international stage, that is, a europe which exports peace, a europe which is able to play a leading role in the mediterranean, in the middle east, in the balkans, in the fight against terrorism and against counterfeiting, a europe with strong transatlantic relations. that's why we need to finish the constitutional process. the first six months of the next year are of crucial importance. we support the german presidency in preparing - as the austrian presidency has already done well, and i am sure finland will do too - a series of policy initiatives for 2007 involving the 450 million europeans who are too often forgotten. parliament will have to play its leading role, and i am sure it will. the latins said, "nothing is difficult for those who want it". we want a political europe, a europe of values, a europe of citizens, a europe of subsidiarity, a europe of solidarity and a europe of freedom. mr. president, we cannot afford to lose this challenge.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president barroso, i think that at the summit next friday you will have to argue, contrary to what was said at klosterneuburg, that the problem is not to prolong the period of reflection on the institutional question, but rather to proceed swiftly both in the field of improving and ratifying the european constitution and in that of policies capable of improving europe's image among the citizens. if the two countries which have not ratified the constitution have been moved by reasons very different from those concerning the constitutional text, then the real question is to move more quickly on the ground of concrete policies capable of changing europe's image in a positive way. but this requires that the institutional stage be passed as soon as possible. the limitations to achieving the world's most competitive knowledge-based economy depend mainly on the intergovernmental approach rather than the community approach. we cannot have a common currency without having common economic or social policies, without having real socioeconomic governance. it must therefore be made clear that the social and economic problems are solved by institutional strengthening in the direction of the community approach. if we do not want to kill europe, we must say, as martin schulz said, that europe needs a constitution now.
mr president, it is important that everyone knows what happened yesterday in the european people's party. i could not even point this out and send a letter to mr poettering, but because we are talking about discrimination, rights and equal opportunities, i am outraged as a woman, as an italian ...
in writing. progress has been made towards building a more cohesive and supportive europe, but there are still barriers to achieving many of the goals we have set ourselves. there has been no reflection on the constitutional treaty, beyond meetings to examine the status quo, involving the european parliament, the council and the commission, to consider the reasons and criticisms of those who, after ratification by some member states, rejection by others and silence by others, have stressed the inadequacy of some parts of the text and its rambling nature. citizens are increasingly concerned about the legally binding nature of the charter of fundamental rights, which lacks important references such as the defence of the family. the question of our roots also remains open. we do not want europe to be confused about where to go because we do not want to know where we come from. in the face of uncertainty, threats from outside and inside the union, due to international terrorism and uncontrolled illegal immigration, are increasing. the crisis of a society that loses points of reference and values leads many young people to have attitudes of abulia or violence. the inability to produce development because of the inability to guide the processes of globalisation and to give the necessary impetus to an energy development model that addresses the problems that arise at the domestic and international level ... (the text of the explanation of vote was withdrawn pursuant to rule 163)
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank the austrian presidency for placing this strategy at the heart of its priorities. i hope that, although our document is a little late, the summit in the coming days will decide something concrete on this and not just take a facade or rhetorical position. i would like to draw from the contribution made by parliament in the unanimous resolution we are voting on tomorrow and emphasize three key words which i consider essential. the first is the word integration. the european councils in lisbon and gothenburg were held a year apart. five years later, perhaps it is time to integrate them more, perhaps even with a word effect, with a neologism like lisboteborg, in order to overcome this contradiction and this opposition between competitiveness and the environment. the second is the word governance. it is necessary to give a strong impetus to the member states and, i stress, also to local and regional authorities, so that there is a widespread role to play in the practical implementation of this strategy. we cannot act from the top down, but we must also promote this role. finally, the third word is monitoring. i very much agree with the need to define a concise set of indicators, let us say multi-criteria, which provide a regular and permanent measure of progress towards sustainability. this is also essential to bring citizens closer to us, who must be able to see in practice the progress or difficulties encountered in pursuing our objectives. i think this bottom-up control is very important.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic theory based on sustainable development is abandoning the approach based solely on the analysis of gdp and employment for an interpretation of the economic situation of a country. labour is natural capital, it is capital produced by man. the european strategy for sustainable development and the lisbon agenda must integrate the economic dimension with the social and environmental dimension in order to ensure long-term development. for the success of this strategy, action at all levels of governance is essential, from the most important international and national organisations to the local agenda 21, which is finally becoming one of the most important engines for the spread of a sustainable management model in italy. acting locally is the key principle to achieving important objectives such as conserving the remaining natural capital, reducing the pressure on the world around us and improving the efficiency of end-use of products, for example through the promotion of energy-efficient structures and environmentally friendly urban transport modes. the commission's widespread support for the so-called 'green' public procurement system is also bearing fruit. however, together with my colleagues from the other groups - and i am glad to have listened to the previous speaker - i must stress a number of points which i consider very important. the commission should be more concrete, anchored to certain objectives and therefore verifiable. only in this way will all actors in the sustainable economy be encouraged to move towards an environmentally and socially compatible model. in europe, much remains to be done to ensure a renewable energy supply in order to protect the environment from pollution and the excessive and irreversible exploitation of natural resources. in this context, i believe it is essential that sustainable development indicators be developed and improved, which should be easily understandable and accessible to the general public. it's important to try to monitor all the results.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. in managing the new development instruments, it will be essential to seek consistency with the lisbon strategy by providing for short, medium and long-term planning for the achievement of the objectives set, namely efficiency, effectiveness and economy, with particular emphasis on growth without forgetting environmental protection. we believe that the role of sustainable development policies in the external dimension, particularly in relation to developing countries, is of vital importance, since in many cases it is precisely in these countries, which unfortunately still lack alternative economic settings, that indiscriminate exploitation of resources is found. new policies must therefore be based on a sound plan for sustainable development from which all the world's people can benefit without distinction. the european institutions, in the world's interest, must offer signs of a political convergence that is finally based on solidarity, aimed at reducing the indiscriminate exploitation of non-renewable resources, while at the same time committing themselves to promoting research and development in environmentally friendly techniques.
the continuing homophobic attacks in europe are a symptom of a democratic emergency that this parliament must address, especially when they occur in european union member states such as poland. the polish far-right government, which is cracking down on the civil rights of the homosexual community, must know that such behaviour is incompatible with membership of the union itself. the last gay pride in warsaw was only allowed to take place thanks to european pressure. poland should know that if the homophobic attacks continue, my group will not hesitate to call for political sanctions for violation of article 7 of the founding treaties and the fundamental democratic principles of the union. the commission is also proposing to extend the 2001 framework decision on racism and xenophobia to include the crime of homophobia, a legal category already existing in france and belgium. i am surprised at the lack of action by the austrian presidency on these issues and wonder if it is because haider's neo-fascist party is part of the government in vienna. i challenge the council here to say something about that. i hope, therefore, that the finnish presidency will give a boost to civilization in this europe which is being ravaged by new and dangerous ghosts.
the president of the council. i am absolutely convinced that we must also provide more input on the question of the design of financial resources in the framework of the partnership agreements. we have already had support mechanisms in the past to support the mediterranean region as a whole, with its diverse uses, its specific features and vulnerabilities, including in the ecosystems. the council will also have to give greater attention to the question of direct support.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all air carriers, including those operating in the union, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the carrier's own air carriers.
the commission's vice-president ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a draft legislation which the commission and the european parliament consider to be an important initiative. the proposal adopted by the commission on 22 september 2005 is important because the fight against the terrorist threat on all fronts remains a priority and because we need to learn the lessons from the application of the legislation in force. we must continue to look for ways to improve the protection of european citizens and to better reconcile the security requirements with the operational needs of all actors, public authorities, airports and airlines. the legislation in force establishes rules in the field of civil aviation safety. it was drafted in the most urgent of circumstances following the attacks of september 11, 2001. the project aims to consolidate this legislation in the light of experience. the rules in force are relatively detailed, as is evident when attempts are made to introduce new technologies or to make the system more flexible to deal with real risks. with experience, a need for simplification is felt. without calling into question the principle of subsidiarity, the commission believes that harmonisation of safety requirements is essential in the european union and that it is in the interests of european civil aviation that this harmonisation be strengthened. we must live up to that expectation. experience gained through inspections carried out by the commission has shown that certain provisions of the regulation need further clarification. the commission has proposed a rebalancing of its implementing powers in the comitology procedure to allow it to react more rapidly to technological developments and to strengthen the confidentiality of rules which should not be in the public domain. i am convinced that this revised text on aviation safety, if adopted, will not only strengthen the protection of citizens but also establish a consolidated framework which strikes a good balance between the risks of the extension of controls and their operational impact, with the respect of all parties. i am pleased to note that the draft report before us today takes up the reasoning behind the commission's initiative, but also the practical operational requirements that have emerged. mr costa has done a very valuable job and i would like to thank him for the quality of his report and for the spirit of cooperation he has shown towards the commission. in view of the commission's proposal, the state of the relations in the council and the amendments proposed by the european parliament for the more technical part of the proposal, i am very hopeful, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that an agreement can be reached quickly.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i believe that we can try to take this regulation and the reason for completing legislation that was born under the influence of the terrorist attack of 11 september a step further this evening. it is right that all the consequences of that experience should be drawn from it and that we should prepare ourselves to deal even better with the situation that is looming. i would like to emphasize only two aspects of the work we have done, because the commission's proposal is an excellent proposal which only needed to be made explicit in a few points and completed in one point. the proposal should have been explicit about the idea that we can only be sure of a good result for aviation safety if there is a single system, which offers a level of safety guaranteed by each airport and each airline. it is in this sense that the whole system has been redefined. the idea of a single security system is essential to ensure the greatest possible protection for all european and non-european citizens who fly in our skies and use our airports. i think there is one point which has been outstanding since 2002, namely that, while at least a common basic level of security is required throughout europe, there must also be real funding possibilities. this funding can be supported by two sources, the one corresponding to the general public concern to defend ourselves against possible terrorist attacks and the one corresponding to private fear, represented by the fact that each traveller as such produces an additional security demand. the financing situation for these measures in europe is currently the most disparate and not necessarily the fairest and most correct. that is why we have insisted and will continue to insist, by presenting a specific amendment which has the support of the large majority in committee and which i hope will be reaffirmed in the house tomorrow, on the need to define rules for the financing of these basic security measures, taking into account the possibility of redistributing the financing equitably between these two sources. in our amendment we therefore ask the commission to make some technical suggestions in this connection. the european parliament, for its part, will do its utmost to ensure that the amendment is adopted. i am aware that this is a sensitive subject for the council, but i believe that if security is to be regarded as a supreme good and a primary objective, it is essential to create the conditions for it to be guaranteed. it is precisely because the situation of security funding in europe is extremely diverse at the moment that we need to ensure that the issue is made explicit, that citizens know what they are contributing to and that the use of security funds is transparent and effective. in defining the common rule we also had to deal with detailed problems, which were very much appreciated and followed by public opinion, such as the problem of safety on board, in relation to which parliament proposes to impose a ban on carrying weapons on board, except in duly authorized special cases. i think that is an acceptable solution and i hope that tomorrow parliament will make a real contribution to the progress of the report and the rules of procedure.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can only welcome the proposal for a regulation establishing common rules for civil aviation safety, since it is desirable that greater cooperation be established within the union in order to live in a safer europe. i agree with the concept of a single security system, which aims to exclude further checks if member states have reasonable assurance that the minimum security standards have been met at the originating airport. the fact that the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on which i am rapporteur, was not taken into account, and was adopted by a very large majority, does not make me happy. i believe that member states should retain the right to apply more stringent security measures, both internally and in bilateral relations with third countries, if they consider it necessary on the basis of legitimate risk assessments. these more stringent measures should always be proportionate and respect civil liberties and the principles of the free market, as i have also stressed in my opinion. while i believe that the commission should limit itself to setting minimum standards and carrying out controls by means of regular inspections even without prior notice, i nevertheless consider it excessive that the commission itself should be able to decide independently whether or not a state should continue to apply stricter measures. i am also pleased that the committee on transport has taken up my amendment, which extends the definition of a 'potentially dangerous passenger' to persons whose behaviour is a matter of real concern, at least in the context of the measures applicable on board. i can only say that i am pleased that my amendment, which calls on the commission to draw up an annual report on the implementation of national security programmes, has been adopted. finally, i thought it appropriate that the committee on transport should also welcome the proposal that the various programmes should be the subject of an annual report from the commission to the european parliament and the national parliaments, which would give an account of the implementation of the national safety programmes and of the results achieved by the new regulation.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you, mr president costa, for your excellent work. i also thank all the speakers who have shown the importance of the subject discussed this evening. the european commission can accept many of the amendments proposed in this report. i shall pass on the necessary information on each of the amendments by the usual channels, mr president. commission position on parliament's amendments: see annex. i take this opportunity to respond to some of the speakers on the question of weapons on board aircraft. in the commission proposal amending the regulation, the commission proposes in chapter 10 of the annex, flight safety measures. paragraph 4 states that weapons should not be carried on board aircraft unless authorised by the member states concerned and if the safety conditions have been met. the commission does not propose to allow weapons on board aircraft, but experience shows that there are cases where weapons are carried on board aircraft for the bodyguards of statesmen or security officers, the sky marshals. for this reason, the commission wishes to ensure that the conditions set out in paragraph 4 are fulfilled in these circumstances. that is the problem of the weapons on board, which is a difficult problem and on which we have tried to find some clues. the commission may support the creation of a solidarity mechanism in the event of a terrorist attack, as described in recital 9, but it is true that the consequences of a terrorist attack can extend far beyond the transport sector. the commission therefore considers that the issue should be dealt with in a broader context. i'm talking about funding security. i promised you a report on the financing of transport safety in april. we're in the process of finalizing this document, which will be available to you before the holidays. the report will describe the current situation and show what is desirable, on the one hand, to protect citizens and, on the other hand, to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and fair competition. according to the aviation safety study, safety costs are currently borne to a large extent by users. for intra-community flights, the taxes and security charges levied by governments and airlines represent between 1 and 2% of the average ticket price. i therefore agree with mr costa and your committee on the need for greater transparency in taxation and fees. this is the way to avoid any risk of distortion of competition. the situation arising from additional requirements which some member states may have to apply must then be examined. i understand all these amendments on financing, but should we try to solve all these financing problems in the context of a technical regulation? the regulation is there to set technical standards for aviation safety; i would like to say to the house: 'let us not be late in improving this safety legislation!' that is why the commission is reluctant to accept the amendments on financing, and in particular, mr president, amendments nos 35 and 43. it is true that the financing problems will have to be clarified, but let us be careful not to delay this revised text, the usefulness of which, i believe, has been recognized by all those who have spoken, particularly in order to have a european approach to safety standards. finally, i would like to say to the committee responsible that we cannot support amendments which would lead to the european aviation safety agency being given additional tasks today. we cannot ask it to do this additional task today because it already has very important tasks and it is having some difficulty in carrying them out with the means it currently has. with these reservations, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank parliament, your rapporteur and your committee, because we believe that the vast majority of the amendments can be accepted by the commission. what i really hope in conclusion is that we can move towards a rapid adoption of this proposal.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m. annex - position of the commission
the agenda includes the report by mr michael cramer, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the implementation of the european railway signalling system (2005/2168 (ini)) (a6-0183/2006).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the unanimous approval of mr cramer's report by the committee on transport and tourism tells us two things. the first is that which you and the colleagues who have preceded me have emphasized, namely that the rapporteur has done a very good job, and that the thanks we owe him are certainly not formal. the second is that there seems to me to be, albeit with different concerns and accents, a strong cross-cutting awareness that we may be faced with the implementation of a system which is shaping up as a true industrial project of excellence for europe. this is what we need for the transport sector, but also in general to increase our competitiveness in the right direction, namely safety and quality improvement. i shall simply point out some of the requirements which are already contained in the report but which i think it is important to mention. the first is that mr savary is certainly right when he says that the new network should include everything that is new. i think, however, that for the time being, in view of the financial difficulties we are facing, we should at least support the installation of the network in the main corridors which coordinator vinck has studied and proposed to us as a first step towards full coverage. i would like to stress the need for a certain timetable and method for the migration of the entire european network and for the maintenance of the current standard, while ensuring compatibility with future technical specifications.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the clarity and completeness of the text he has presented. we have been stressing for many years the need for sustainable exploitation of fisheries, particularly in the mediterranean, and we repeat what has been emphasized in the report under discussion today. unfortunately, the limited time available does not allow us to go into some interesting topics, such as gender equality in the fishing industry, safety on board fishing vessels, alternative energy sources in the face of the high price of diesel and fleet modernisation. i would like to point out that coastal and artisanal fishing - and this is coming from a man from the south who lives almost daily in close contact with the marine world - is not only a very important source of income for thousands of european families living on the coasts of our continent, but also a tradition of many centuries which, in our view, europe must uphold and preserve. support for coastal fishing means, among other things, defending it against wild fishing by vessels flying non-community flags, which, brazenly and without any restraint, carry out their activities without any regard for the quantity, quality and type of fish species caught. it's the latest protest by fishermen from the south, in bagnara, in calabria. the european union cannot impose limits and sacrifices on our fishermen and leave the fleets of non-european countries in the mediterranean free to do whatever they want. the coastal fisheries sector can and must make an important economic activity compatible with the necessary and proper preservation of the marine environment. for these and other reasons, i fully support this report, particularly point 16 of the motion for a resolution, which calls on the commission to recognise once and for all the specific nature of small-scale coastal fishing in the common fisheries policy, which has so far proved to be a disadvantage.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank mr ó neachtain for his work in analysing the problems of coastal fishing in the european union. the report rightly and finally considers the role of women to be important, acknowledges the difficulties they face in operating in this sector, recalls the issue of safety on board, stresses the importance of vocational training and the role that coastal fishing can play in protecting and preserving the coastal marine environment. i would like to draw attention to two aspects which are important for my country, italy, not only for the south but also for the north of the adriatic. firstly, while we believe that coastal resources must be protected and that legislation must be introduced for a sustainable and environmentally friendly type of fishing, the proposal to abolish all fishing techniques that threaten the survival of coastal resources and the economic sustainability of the social fabric linked to fishing is certainly a right provision but one that puts many operators in difficulty, who would be left without work in the absence of valid alternative proposals for a sector that is already experiencing a severe employment crisis. secondly, insufficient attention is paid to associationism and the positive role it could play in contributing to the socioeconomic development of fishing communities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left to the discretion of the member states. the regional consultative centres themselves should foster dialogue between the european union and local authorities. these centres, of which seven are planned but only four have been set up, are considered neither functional nor decisive for the management of small-scale fisheries resources, since they are only advisory bodies. i would like to conclude by thanking commissioner borg for the important work he has done, particularly in connection with the green paper on the future of the common fisheries policy, which aims to bring together the various sectors involved in the management of the maritime policy.
the economic and social crisis affecting the italian fisheries sector, which has been hit by operating costs of over 40% and income losses of around 25% over the last three years, is affecting the least competitive segments of the fleet, in particular coastal fishing, which is more affected by the high volatility of fuel costs and the increase in variable costs. in addition to the economic difficulties, the coastal fisheries sector is faced with the lack of a specific regulatory framework. the european union must adopt a realistic approach and allow for the adoption of definitions that are not too rigid. in the future mediterranean regulation, for example, it will be appropriate to provide for the possibility of proposing adjustments at national level. the commission must recognise the specific nature of small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing within the common fisheries policy, taking into account the fact that certain coastal areas, in particular island or outermost regions, are heavily dependent on fishing and the industries generated by it. it should analyse the extent to which existing instruments are adequate to meet the needs of the sector by involving more representatives of the sector in the decision-making process.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, rule 96 of the rules of procedure provides for the publication of our proceedings, so i think it is important to take note of the possible consequences of statements made in this chamber. i refer to the statement by mr de keyser on the eight deaths in gaza last monday, in which he said - and i quote - that this was a deliberate act and that in 1987 the first intifada had started as a result of a minor incident. since this statement, which was applauded in this house, has been refuted by an israeli investigation which shows that it was a bomb, i think that we as a parliament should be more cautious in the face of such news and wait to know how the facts actually unfolded, because otherwise we risk provoking consequences beyond our control.
mr president, the seventh framework programme received a broad, almost unanimous, approval from this parliament this morning. as we know, this is a major economic effort that europe is making in line with the lisbon strategy. i am sure that the honourable member will have noticed the extent of the debate on article 6 on bioethics, in which the so-called compromise tabled by the committee on industry, research and energy received a margin of just over 40 votes, a margin which is certainly substantial but not a majority. at the same time, more stringent amendments on this subject, such as the amendment tabled by mr niebler on stem cells, which some of us thought were more reasonable, were rejected by less than 20 votes. the italian delegation of margaret supported these amendments. i would like to stress that the intense debate on a matter which actually involves less than 1% of the resources should suggest to parliament and the commission that they adopt a precautionary approach, so as not to underestimate the impact of this issue on the public opinion to which we refer when we call for a consensus on europe.
mr president, i voted against because i found the equation you tried to draw between racism and homophobia unacceptable. it is not necessary to recall the horrors of racial discrimination, the realization of which has been long prepared in thought. it is right to condemn every act of ridicule and violence against those with different sexual orientations, but it is certainly not right to consider as inhuman the attitude of the institutions and churches which defend the family as a structure of great importance for the common good, since it is based on the distinction between the sexes and the meeting between man and woman, that is to say, on heterosexuality. this is precisely the defence which the human rights doctrine requires. let us not forget article 16 of the universal declaration of human rights - a document whose secularity cannot be doubted - which proclaims the family as the fundamental nucleus of society and the state, which as such must be recognized and protected. it is therefore necessary to reject racism and homophobia, but also to reject their equation, which, on the face of it, is an attempt to overturn a fundamental point of human rights.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commission representatives, at a meeting of the wine management committee, agreement was reached on an amendment to regulations (ec) no 1622/2000, no 884/2001 and no 753/2002 to allow the use of grape must for the ageing of wine. i wanted to put an oral question, supported by more than forty colleagues whom i would like to thank, on the admissibility of this oenological practice, because i believe that parliament should be able to express its views on a matter which is only apparently technical and which, in fact, underlies important issues relating to the quality and future of european wine. the proposal was justified by the need to adapt it to non-european countries which already allow this practice. i wonder, however, whether the specificity of european wine and its strength on the international market are not due to its high quality and respect for traditional practices. has the commission assessed the impact of this proposal on quality wines? what measures will you take to prohibit this practice at least for quality wines? as regards labelling, does the commission consider that the omission of this practice on the label is compatible with our guidelines on transparency? finally, what would happen in the wto negotiations if, instead of seeking to raise the standards of oenological practices, we adjusted those practices to the lowest? i would be grateful if the commission would clarify these points, also in view of the forthcoming reform of the wine cmo.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are at a historic moment in european viticulture. the liberalization of world agricultural markets and the increasing international competition have called into question the production and marketing patterns of our wines and have imposed greater flexibility on our producers. the use in many third countries of what can be called 'modern' oenological practices and the less strict international application of the 'wholly obtained' rule are excluding our products from our own market, a market which alone represents two thirds of the world wine trade. if it is really necessary to review the rigidity of our rules and if this international challenge really requires us to be more flexible, then it is essential to establish the limits and conditions for using these new oenological practices. it is essential to balance this greater flexibility with the requirements of tradition, quality and consumer protection. this openness must serve to preserve and strengthen the strengths of our viticulture and to give it new impetus, certainly not to reduce prestigious productions to the benefit of organoleptically constructed wines. the commission is attempting to justify the proposal under discussion today by the need to avoid the risk of consumer confusion and distortion of competition between producers. if that is indeed the aim, mr commissioner, and if that is indeed the aim that is being pursued, then i am sorry to say that we have failed miserably. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the use of wood chips is not restricted to the manufacture of wood chips. any other and different provision is and will remain completely useless for consumer protection and even more useless for avoiding distortions of competition. only a clear label corresponding to the content of the product ensures the transparency of the information. only in this way is the consumer put in a position to know exactly what he is buying. only in this way is his freedom of choice protected and the freedom of choice of the winegrower is also guaranteed. the absence of such a label would mean that part of european wine production would soon be destroyed, a sector based on tradition, diversification and regional characteristics, on a genuine wine culture which is the expression of our territories. european wine growers will have no choice. sooner or later they will be forced to abandon their traditional practices because their product will, for no apparent reason, prove too expensive in the eyes of a consumer who is not properly and clearly informed. mr commissioner, is this the community's consumer protection policy? is this the community's policy on transparency and labelling? is this the quality of agricultural products we are talking about? i thank you for the urgent replies you wish to give to parliament.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am answering both questions at the same time, concerning the use of wood chips in wine production. the purpose of the draft commission regulation, which is being examined by the wine steering committee, is to lay down the conditions for the use of oak wood chips in the production of wine. this new oenological process was decided by the council in regulation (ec) no 2165/2005 of 20 december 2005. the commission considers that the provisions on wine labelling contained in this proposal meet the requirements of transparency for consumers and the requirements of product quality. the proposal lays down rules on wine labelling to avoid misleading consumers. however, the possibility of using the term 'oak cask' or 'oak barrel' for wines which have been aged or matured in wooden vessels and which have never been in contact with pieces of oak wood is retained. under these conditions, wines aged in contact with pieces of oak wood and showing the taste of wine aged in contact with wood cannot be confused with wines aged in the traditional manner in barrel barrels and therefore no specific indication is required for these wines. under regulation (ec) no 1493/1999 on the common organisation of the market in wine, member states may impose stricter conditions on oenological practices for quality wines from specified growing regions and for table wines with a geographical indication in order to ensure that the essential characteristics of those quality wines are preserved. the commission cannot interfere with those national powers. for the union producers, this procedure has now been approved by the council. and the international wine organization has already approved it a few years ago. the commission considers that the traditional barrel ageing methods will be maintained for producers of high quality wines, as is the case in third countries which have allowed this practice for years. long-term use in producing third countries and numerous trials carried out under the control of the european union show that the procedure does not have negative consequences for the health of consumers. the commission considers that greater flexibility in authorising new oenological practices will allow community producers to expand their market and reach more consumers, in particular for export, and will improve the competitiveness of the wine sector vis-à-vis third countries.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the use of wood chips in wine-making. the legislation of other wine-producing states, in particular the united states, chile and south africa, does not provide for such a prohibition. in addition, under a recent agreement with the european union, these countries can export their wine production to the internal market of the european union without any reference to the use of wood chips in the labelling of bottles. italy's wine industry is thus the victim of unfair competition. so far, it has played the card of its diversity, its ancient grape varieties, the quality and health of its product. now the image of a reliable and credible market, as the italian one is considered, will be lost. globalisation inevitably affects an area which the world envies. we can't stop it, but we need the right safeguards. we are not talking about opposing the introduction of this ageing system on the european market, but we are demanding that the right of consumers to know what they are buying and drinking, to know for what quality they are paying a certain price, be safeguarded. italian and european producers do not need to hide or take shortcuts to sell their quality, which is recognized throughout the world. the wine management committee is about to approve an amendment to the current rules on oenological practices in order to allow the ageing of wine by means of wood chips instead of the traditional barrique method. twenty years ago, the scandal of methanol wine production had warned us. only a production conducted with seriousness and professionalism can stand firm on the market. true, in vino veritas, but for once let the labels confess to us the information we are entitled to.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the austrian presidency and chancellor schüssel: although he often disagrees with me, i must acknowledge his personal sympathy and the availability and courtesy of his staff. i am convinced, contrary to what mrs poettering has said, that the experience of 2000 has also helped to strengthen the european spirit of your government and that it has been an important experience not only for you but also for the whole of europe. in this connection - i refer to the question of rights - i would ask you, when you meet president bush next, to remind him of the problem of cia flights. she didn 't tell us about it . i wonder if you'll talk to him instead. i would now like to turn to the europe of results, which you have mentioned and which president barroso has also mentioned. we welcomed your proposals and the enthusiasm you showed at the beginning of your presidency for the subject of the constitution. what results are we seeing today? we are in a period of prolonged limbo and silence, with a presidency which, contrary to its mandate, has not presented an interim report, nor has it drawn up a road map with real content, and has also - let us not hide the reality - helped to turn the first parliamentary forum into a sympathetic talk show. at this point i would like to appeal to my colleagues: the council's conclusions show that there is no provision for involving citizens and associations in the proposal put forward by the governments, and i am somewhat afraid of the solemnity of the march meeting, allowing me to remind everyone that on 29 october in rome there was no people celebrating the constitution! i would not like this statement to remain a mere fact among us, who often find ourselves discussing europe in a somewhat vacuum. we must stop waiting for governments and acknowledge that national parliaments, or rather their leaders, sometimes seem more interested in protecting their prerogatives than in playing the team game for europe. we must stop hiding behind the ratification: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we're the only ones who haven't yet. we must instead make a clear proposal to meet the next deadlines. i am very sorry to say, mr president, that this presidency will also be remembered for an unprecedented increase in the european nuclear energy research budget, with the result that a continent which has virtually no non-renewable energy resources has decided to invest four or five times as much in a dangerous technology instead of tackling the problem of energy efficiency and renewable energy. i do not think that this is a great achievement for the austrian presidency. you also mentioned the brenner tunnel, although we would have thought it much more useful to ratify the alpine convention and the protocol on transport. i know that you tried in vain to convince the previous italian government of this, and i hope you will have better luck this week with the present government. as far as sustainable development is concerned, i think the council's conclusions are nothing but a tired repetition of objectives which have already been stated and reiterated - objectives which, unfortunately, have not been achieved - and not much is said about what should be done in practice. in addition, the very timid reference to the ecological footprint and the commitment to reduce our use of resources by 3% a year has been removed from the conclusions. all this, mr president, is perfectly in line with the policy of the barroso-verheugen duo, who, if they do not change their course, risk receiving the 'attila prize' for europe one of these days. one last point, mr president, very quickly: it is not true that immigration was mentioned for the first time at the last european council. i would like to recall the very important tampere and seville councils, where positive action on immigration was discussed, not just repressive action. i would like to remind you that the only way to really solve and tackle the problem of immigration at european level is to conclude agreements with third countries to help them overcome their underdevelopment and to define clear european policies for legal immigration on our continent. this is the only way to go.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is emerging from the austrian presidency is essentially a europe of results: the commission's proposals are based on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. it is time to remember the fundamental role of national parliaments, which represent the democracy of the member states: the voice of democracy! it is a presidency which, moreover, ends on good news for us autonomists and regionalists. the austrian presidency has also given a signal in this regard, by re-launching the role of the regions and of a europe with a leopard's tail, in other words the positive result of the referendum for the freedom of catalonia. president schüssel has given us positive indications of the key role of small and mediumsized enterprises, which he has described as a hidden potential of europe and which are supported not only in terms of research but also in their demand for the abolition of many bureaucratic obstacles. as regards the brussels summit, i would like to point out that it was unfortunately not possible to reach a final agreement on one of the fundamental issues it dealt with, namely future enlargements, also because of the uncertain position of some governments, such as the italian one. but, as chancellor schüssel rightly said this morning, the criteria for accession must be precise and concrete and not remain a mere rhetorical expression. in this connection, mr d'alema's call to his colleagues not to adopt a dogmatic attitude on the matter is critical.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to follow up on mr swoboda's speech. the establishment of the 158 local signs in carinthia is a first step, a small exercise of duty under a ruling of the supreme court and in the sense of the 1955 state treaty. but much more generosity would be required towards this small and shrinking minority of slovenes. i hope that austria will have as much understanding for its own minority as it has for the south tyrolean, german-italian minority in italy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. transport policy must be changed. without a new transport policy, the railway will have no chance. first, the existing railways must be organised in an attractive way before megaprojects such as cathedrals are put into the desert.
mr president, mr chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, the austrian-led half-year is a positive one, mainly because of the political result achieved. the phase of european pessimism, of that negative feeling which the latins called cupio dissolvi, is over. today european politics is looking ahead and, despite the resistance of some countries which emerged at last week's council, there is talk again of an operational plan to finally bring the european constitution to life. in this respect, i believe that the proposal by president poettering should be accepted by the council and the commission. although the text signed in rome must be amended to reach final approval, i agree with you: the substance of what is to be the european grundnorm must not be changed. without a treaty there will be no citizens' europe and no european union capable of fulfilling its role. but what should be the role of the union? the principle of subsidiarity, which means that we must respond to the needs of citizens who cannot find adequate answers from the national and local authorities. in the era of globalisation, the member states alone cannot solve the big questions of immigration, the fight against terrorism, energy policy, market and budgetary liberalisation. europe is therefore called upon to deal with these issues, which are the ones that are being examined and, in some cases, resolved by your presidency, which i consider to be a real precursor to the next presidencies called upon to bring the constitution to life, thanks also to the active support of the european parliament. mr chancellor, in conclusion, i would like to appeal to you as the austrian chancellor: as regards stem cell research, continue to defend the principle of subsidiarity and the ethical values inherent in european culture!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out to you and to my colleagues and to parliament as a matter of concern the change which seems to me to be taking place in the relations between the european institutions and that part of civil society which is represented by consumer associations. i would like to point out in particular, as the last of the acts (but there are others), what has recently happened at the european food safety authority. under article 25 of regulation no 178/2002 the 14 members of the management board must include four members who should have and i quote from the text 'experience in consumer representative bodies and other interest groups in the food chain'. the article says "and" and not "or", but in fact, only members representing interests were designated.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to comment on a serious incident which has taken place in the last few hours: eighteen migrants drowned while heading for the canary islands and two more migrants were found dead this morning at the melilla barrier between morocco and spain. according to the delegate of the government of melilla, the two deaths were caused by the use of firearms. we have already denounced in this parliament the use of firearms by the spanish civil guard against immigrants. spanish newspaper "el mundo" claims that guns were used to intimidate migrants who wanted to cross the border from melilla. mr president, we consider this to be very serious and we ask you if it is possible for the presidency to verify the veracity of these statements, in order to ascertain whether it is true that the spanish civil guard used firearms to prevent migrants from crossing the barrier in melilla. we consider this very serious and we believe that the european parliament must act urgently on this matter to prevent further deaths at the border between morocco and spain.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to express my appreciation of certain points in the report which are very important. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the connection between law and corporate governance on the one hand and social policy, including through csr. the european parliament is taking the relationship with stakeholders as a fundamental issue, and is thus embedding corporate social responsibility in corporate governance processes and is therefore taking the most authentic perspective on this matter. i also mention the explicit recognition of the need for the directors to be bound by the rules and for transparency also in terms of remuneration, and the guarantee of the rights of workers and their representatives to participate in the company's decisions. i would stress the need to open up the prospect of coordination with the financial markets, so as to take due account of developments in the real economy, and i hope that these indications will be implemented properly and correctly in national systems as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after more than a year, we have now reached the end of a long process of work carried out in close collaboration with many colleagues, with representatives of the council and the commission, whom i would like to thank. i also thank the austrian presidency and i would like to pay particular tribute to commissioner danuta hübner, who has always shown herself sensitive to parliament's requests, ready to discuss matters and to engage in constructive dialogue, which is the real engine for exchanging views between the two institutions. at the negotiating table with the council and the commission, the european parliament spoke with one voice, beyond political affiliations and territorial divisions, and was thus able to exert a greater influence on the outcome of the negotiations, contributing to a significant improvement in the original implementation of the measures. although the council has rejected some of the important suggestions made by parliament, i personally believe that the texts adequately meet the needs of the enlarged union. the joint work of the three institutions means that, with this morning's vote, europe will have new legal instruments at its disposal which are fundamental to strengthening solidarity and economic and social cohesion. as regards the regulation on the cohesion fund, for which i am the lead rapporteur, i would like to stress the importance of the increase in the financial allocation, for which parliament has fought, from 18 billion for the period 2000-06 to just over 61 and a half billion for the next programming period. this is a response to the large need for financing in the environment and transport sectors in the beneficiary member states, with particular attention to sustainable development, through a balanced but at the same time flexible allocation, i.e. able to adapt the fund's assistance to the needs of each member state. outside the transeuropean networks, the cohesion fund will be available for projects in the field of transport, including urban, rail, inland waterways and maritime transport, multimodal programmes, and actions promoting sustainable development and enhancing the environmental dimension, with particular regard to the key areas of energy efficiency and renewable sources. the parliament's hard work has led to positive results on several points. i would like to mention only a few of them, which concern both the regulation on the cohesion fund and the general regulation, for which mr hatzidakis is rapporteur and for which i am shadow rapporteur on behalf of my group. a specific reference to accessibility for the disabled has been inserted in article 14 of the general regulation, which will henceforth be a feature of all projects financed by the community funds. there has been a greater recognition of environmental protection and sustainable development, as mr hatzidakis has just pointed out. i am satisfied with these two points, although i would have liked to have had a specific reference to them in the article of the regulation on the cohesion fund. in any case, the reference is contained in the general regulation and that is already significant and important. the partnership will also involve more representative bodies of civil society, non-governmental organisations and associations which fight for equal rights for women and men, including in cohesion policy. finally, mr president, as regards the regulation on the european regional development fund, for which mr fava is rapporteur and for which i am shadow rapporteur, i regard very positively the inclusion of the reference to public security in the context of the convergence objective as a safeguard against the infiltration of organised crime into the spending processes relating to the structural funds. in addition, parliament's intervention has led to greater attention being paid to the urban dimension - a subject which is very dear to mr beaupuy, to me and to many others of us - by emphasizing the driving force which a good investment programme and the management of funds directed to cities can have for the economic and socio-cultural revival of the suburbs and the surrounding rural areas, which are the real driving force behind the sustainable and lasting development of the territories. in conclusion, i would like to add to mr hatzidakis's call for parliament to vote in favour of the whole package of regulations under discussion today.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the final stage of a process which began in july 2004 with the presentation of the commission's proposals for the new structural funds, which i would like to recall. parliament has always supported, tried to improve and defended, insisting on certain aspects which we consider important, relating to quality, spending, sustainable development, environmental protection, equal opportunities, access for the disabled, public security and crossborder cooperation. we have worked with the commission and the council to ensure that this process is completed quickly, but also, i repeat, to improve certain sensitive points which we consider important for the use which our regions and local authorities will make of the structural funds. i would like to recall briefly our contribution on a few specific points. first of all, the conciliation: we have fought for it to be extended and sustained, and for it to include, alongside the institutional and administrative bodies, new bodies which have a place in the territory: i am talking about ngos and civil society. we believe that consultation is a great school of democracy and, above all, a great resource of responsibility: the commission's proposal for a directive on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in member states concerning the taking-up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and investment firms is a very important one. we have focused on equity, that is to say, on the need to avoid a two-speed europe, which would open up space for geographically discriminatory measures. we know that the challenge of european cohesion is a difficult one. enlargement has widened the gap between different geographical areas of europe and we felt it was important to overcome this gap and to find an economic and social balance between all the countries of the european union, avoiding the risk of a two-speed europe. we have concentrated on a number of priorities, accepting the commission's proposal to avoid making the structural funds and the regional development fund, for which i am responsible, a kind of 'spending list' from which everyone can draw according to the most varied needs, focusing instead on the quality of certain objectives and making sure that quality prevails over quantity, also on the basis of the experience that each of us brings to our memory. we have preserved the principle of additionality: the structural funds are an added value, they must not replace the normal current expenditure of the member states, the state. in this sense, as an added value, we must pay more attention to the reasons for the quality of this expenditure. finally, lisbon: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, lisbon is not only a competitive europe, capable of launching its economy and pursuing the objective of full and decent employment, but it is also a europe capable of investing in knowledge, in intangible infrastructure, in knowledge, in processes and technological innovation, and in all that is at the heart of the structural funds today. the european parliament's contribution was also a concrete contribution on specific points, as it paid particular attention to environmental issues, sustainable development, urban policy, small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the backbone of the european economy, and also to security. we are pleased that a statement is planned which welcomes our request to pay particular attention to security, to make our european expenditure impervious to the attentions of organised crime. we are only partially satisfied, mr president, because, as you and all our colleagues will know, we do not think that the budgetary resources are adequate to the challenge we are facing, despite enlargement and despite the proposal of the old commission, which is perhaps a more generous proposal and more attentive to the needs of this enlarged europe of 25. i think it is worth stressing once again - as has been done by other colleagues - the sense of responsibility of the european parliament, which has always sought full and good cooperation with the other european institutions, which has avoided conciliation, which has avoided jeopardizing the next programming period. i would like to thank the european commission, commissioner hübner and the austrian presidency for playing our part in this spirit of cooperation. it is now up to our countries to act, we have the appropriate instruments, we should know how to use them well.
i am particularly pleased to have the opportunity to welcome the finnish presidency, on its first visit to parliament, together with mr manninen, minister for regional and municipal affairs in the finnish government.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting for a new redistribution of funds, on the basis of recommendations which our rapporteurs have tried to optimise, especially in a time of budgetary strain, in terms of the distribution of resources and the precariousness of the objectives. enlargement means more less developed regions to support and therefore less resources than in the past for the less developed regions of the first accession countries. and this cannot be disregarded, as it often is. despite the partial acceptance of some proposals, the objective of supporting regional policies based on competitiveness, employment, environmental protection and support for people with reduced abilities seems sufficiently focused. the transeuropean transport network also remains a priority for action. i regret to point out that, as far as my country is concerned, it is not at all clear whether the present government will be able to allow instruments to play different tunes in order not to exclude italy from the transcontinental transport network and thus marginalise its role in the mediterranean. i shall vote in favour of this because, despite everything, the regional, social and cohesion funds still represent an opportunity for the south of italy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with today's decision europe has decided to invest in a cohesion policy with great prospects, allocating eur 308 billion to the objectives of convergence, social cohesion and the promotion of territorial cohesion. in the european union of 25, 123 million people, or 27% of the total population, live in regions with a per capita gdp of less than 75% of the community average; two-fifths of these live in regions belonging to the old member states. cohesion policy helps to share the benefits of european economic development by anticipating change and helping areas in difficulty, often for structural or geographical reasons. this cohesion policy helps to limit the negative effects of globalisation. the recent reform of the structural funds, which are essential instruments of cohesion policy, which introduces greater efficiency, transparency and accountability, can only be welcomed. the management system has been simplified by introducing differentiation and proportionality in the context of sound financial management, in response to the requests for simplification from the main actors of cohesion policy: the member states. the new reform is based on the priorities of lisbon and gothenburg: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. it has been decided to invest in human capital, innovation and the promotion of the knowledge society, entrepreneurship, environmental protection and more. the new objectives are numerous, and include the creation of three new objectives: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the regions in the community, such as reducing the number of structural funds, strengthening the partnership, increasing financial resources for islands and regions with geographical handicaps and protecting the phasing-out regions which will soon no longer be eligible for the convergence objective.
the regions are the building blocks of europe, and cultural diversity and the promotion of the different regional realities are among the union's main characteristics. i am therefore pleased that more than one third of the union budget has been allocated to the structural funds for the new period 2007-13. sustaining regional identity while pursuing convergence at european level in terms of development and improving the conditions for growth and employment is in fact an essential condition for achieving the lisbon objectives and promoting the economy, especially at local and regional level. in fact, it is the small businesses that drive the market in europe, and the idea of strengthening competitiveness and involvement at this level, by promoting partnerships between public, private and non-governmental actors operating at the territorial level, can only encourage an economic recovery that would benefit the union in its global context. i hope that the regions will rise to the challenge and turn the guidance and resources provided by these institutions into concrete plans for economic and social development, focusing above all on full employment and the intelligent and sustainable exploitation of the human, artistic and natural resources they have at their disposal in large quantities and of high quality.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is good to remember that we are talking about people in the flesh, who are also listening to us and who therefore demand concrete answers. a year ago i spoke in this chamber about the steel industry and about terni, an italian town which was risking its life to be operated by a multinational company. the ruling of this parliament was very helpful. today i have to go back to another factory, eaton in piedmont: here too, workers are at risk because of the behaviour of a multinational; i would also like to mention getronix, and others, we heard, talk about opel. in all these cases, as in terni's, we must and can help. we must also take action to prevent this from happening again, that is to say, to prevent multinationals, which also make profits and perhaps enjoy public funds, including european funds, from using europe to turn one country against another, workers against other workers. we must decide that we must fight dumping and relocations with concrete rules, because they have nothing to do with competition and the market, but on the contrary they undermine social cohesion and impose unbearable costs on us all. this calls for concrete responses: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. giving more power to workers and trade unions will also help us to build a picture of what development europe should have. some people consider this speculative market to be reliable, thinking that there will be a positive balance in employment, which there is not. i think that politics should be concerned with what is to be produced in this europe and that we must therefore also respond in this area. i think that those who want to build europe should know that the unity of european workers, not their division, is an indispensable asset for building this unity of europe and that, therefore, not dumping but the harmonization of the rules and upward rights is a specific commitment for this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issues raised in the commissioner's communication are very important. in the face of the changes which have taken place and are still taking place in the national and european production systems, europe is faced with the problem of managing industrial restructuring processes, which have had a very heavy impact on workers and on the various territories. mr harbour asked a moment ago what the theme of the future might be, and my answer is this: "the theme of the future is how to govern these processes". the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is why we must adopt a clear european approach, based on the idea of effective governance of these processes, and also to give greater coherence to the lisbon objectives themselves and to the social dialogue itself, which is considered one of the pillars of this strategy. the call is therefore to find a common position to give strength and substance to the action of the european institutions themselves, starting with parliament, in this field. i would like to stress one last point. it is now quite clear that the restructuring issue requires a review of the community instruments available. just one example - and i would like to hear the commissioner's opinion on this - if we are to really govern these processes, there is an inescapable need to strengthen and reform european works councils. the directive needs to be updated if we are to meet the new requirements in this area. i hope that there will be a common position on this from the whole of parliament and from the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs del castillo, on her report. i would like to address two issues: the commission has also adopted a communication on the future of the european research area and the sme theme. building the european research area means building the single market of the most valuable commodity: knowledge. we must therefore devote to its construction the same determination that europe as a whole has devoted to the achievement of monetary union and the single market for other goods. in a few months we will be launching the seventh framework programme and the union still has a very, very diverse landscape of national and regional systems for research and innovation and, as a result, there is no teamwork. this is at the expense of systematic cooperation and efficiency. if we are to achieve lisbon, all the actors involved, public and private, at regional, national and community level, will have to make their own contribution through synergistic and complementary actions, developing systems as well as policies that are coherent and mutually compatible. as far as small and mediumsized enterprises are concerned, the fall in productivity and thus in the competitiveness of the italian economy is attributed by several sources to the fact that there is little innovation in italy. this is because many italian firms feel that new technologies are essentially useless or superfluous. this negative phenomenon is linked to the small size of our enterprises, which on average employ about four people; but if the phenomenon is particularly serious in my country, it also affects a large part of europe. i therefore propose that, in addition to the various measures to support small and mediumsized enterprises, which are provided for in the castillo report - which i fully support - training measures be introduced specifically for small entrepreneurs so that they understand that innovation has become a necessity for survival. finally, i would urge the member states and regions, while recognising research and innovation as a top priority, not to waste too much time in the transposition procedures and in the start of implementation of the various programmes and actions, because time for innovation is precious.
on behalf of the alde group. it is widely accepted that the future of european development depends to a large extent on the capacity of the knowledge society and economy to achieve its goals, but it is often underestimated that this ambitious perspective requires the implementation, relaunching and strengthening of a policy relating to the traditional sectors of our production and the entire european production system, from agriculture to services, from the basic realities of manufacturing to construction. there can be no economy of intangible networks, information and software without a solid substrate of manufacturing, of the production of primary goods, from finished products to machinery, from essential goods to luxury goods. an economic system is sound if it economically grows all its production areas and if it is able to provide more and more (also in traditional production) strong and robust injections of technological, process and product innovation; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the support given by the commission and the member states to their strategic sectors - as you said, commissioner - is not directing or public intervention, policies which are obsolete in the integrated market and in the european and world free market, but it is the ability to promote industrial policies which are able to face change, prevent it or guide it, which create an attractive environment for international investment, which, in short, are able to accompany the many crises in the european production system and to face the challenges of the future. the rapporteur and the other speakers have made two new points, which i would like to mention: finally, after years in which the sectoral approach seemed to have been largely outdated, it is once again clear that we must know the reality of the strategic sectors in our europe. on the other hand, it is understood that an industrial policy is an integrated policy, which requires integrated concrete action, but it must also be designed - and here we ask the commission to make a further effort - keeping in mind all the different aspects, those purely industrial, those of research, energy and those of trade. we know that we must be increasingly equipped to face the global market and that we must also give the commission a stronger hand, as we have seen in the textile sector and in certain sectors. but let all my colleagues in the various countries of europe know that what has invested in textiles, that is to say this kind of cyclone of very low-cost production from certain areas of the world, can invest in many other important productions for europe. we therefore call for an effort in this direction, we ask that the globalisation fund also take account of this aspect, which concerns sectoral restructuring, the ability to help workers to retrain for new professions, the professional skills needed for an integrated system capable of innovating, as my colleagues have also said. and then there is the appeal to small and mediumsized enterprises: we all know that the european production system is based on this reality, which is not only a production reality but one which gives life to the territories and gives strength to territorial policies. i would like to say to you, commissioner, that this is the commission we appreciate, the commission which does not stand idly by in the face of the problems and changes in europe, but which is able to play a strong coordinating role.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european industrial sector is a pillar of the union's economic system. within it, manufacturing, which accounts for one fifth of output, employs some 34 million people and three quarters of export goods are manufactured goods. we can therefore call manufacturing the decisive factor in our economy, and for this reason i believe that the most important part of manufacturing production must remain in europe. this is not something that happens spontaneously, but the right conditions must be created: the key factors are therefore investment, research and innovation. although the manufacturing sector invests in industrial research and innovation, the amount of investment is not sufficient to sustain competition from other countries: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but research and innovation are not enough to ensure a strong european industry. other policies are also needed, which must be synergistic and coherent. i am referring to the identification of international practices which are likely to have a negative impact on the competitiveness of european enterprises. the european commission has recently published a document which states that there is evidence of serious distortions, for example in the footwear sector in china, and, i would add, not only, and it talks about direct state intervention in the management of companies, particularly favourable tax treatment, zero interest loans. i am against the protectionist policies of the management, like commissioner mendelson, and i am in favour of the free market, but a free market with rules for all, not just for some. i ask that this principle be the basis of european policies, starting with international trade policies, especially where cases of unfair competition and counterfeiting occur.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. in the context of the lisbon strategy and the ambitious development and competitiveness objectives it sets itself, and in view of the central role played by small and mediumsized enterprises in the european economic scene, i consider certain of the rapporteur's remarks to be fundamental, and i refer in particular to the issue of the complementarity between the global approach and the local approach. i agree with the committee responsible that the regional characteristics, the type of products and the type of processing are the lifeblood of the european manufacturing sector, and that the added value is the key element in international trade. the exploitation of the specific human and material resources of each country thus becomes the instrument with which to combat the flattening of skills on the european platform and the outflow of knowledge and qualifications from the respective regions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat dumping, and it is not yet clear whether the measures will be effective. integrated strategies and action plans, such as those launched by the european union and the united states against counterfeiting and piracy of intellectual property, find the right tools in local strategic plans. it will be possible to work from these bases with a view to protecting all workers and their specific needs, which is a constant imperative in the regulation of european and world trade.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the commission's proposal for a directive on the control of shipments of waste is balanced and incorporates many of the points made by the european parliament during the debate on the previous proposal. the attempt to update and clarify the previous directive in terms of procedures and terminology is welcome. the inclusion of the spent fuel directive in the scope of the directive is also welcome. the socialist group therefore broadly agrees with this text and congratulates the rapporteur, mr seppänen, on his report and contribution. we have asked for a separate vote on amendment no 6 because we do not believe that the restrictions and controls which pervade the whole directive can be excluded from the legislative provisions of the transit country regulations. the amendments tabled by the greens raise a problem which we can all agree with, but i think that the commission's text, more precisely article 13, already places limits on exports, particularly to those countries which do not have the technical, legal and administrative resources to ensure safe management of radioactive waste, so we will vote against the greens' amendments. i also think that the system is acceptable and i thank the commission and the rapporteur, mr seppänen, for this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have said on other occasions that unless we change the liberal option, we shall struggle to get out of the crisis in which europe is plunged. it is this option that undermines the social and environmental objectives that we are trying to achieve. let's take energy. it cannot be regarded as a commodity like any other, it is the central theme of the future, which requires that we go down the road of kyoto and far beyond, that we switch to renewable sources, that we abandon fossil fuels, that we do not run the intolerable risks of nuclear energy; that there is fairness, solidarity and not conflict, trade wars or even, as it happens, military wars; it requires a different vision of the economy, of society, of politics, of democracy. europe speaks of an energy community and that is a good idea, but this community, in order to exist, needs the above choices, made together with the others - from russia, to south america, to africa - and not against them. the g8 summit will be held in st petersburg in a few days' time, and europe - although the venue is highly questionable and unacceptable to us - will have to bring these proposals to you, which are summed up in the concept of energy as a common good of the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. i fully agree with the priorities of the finnish presidency and, in particular, with the emphasis on the revival of the role of our institutions, both at european and international level. on the first aspect, that is, the relationship between the institutions and the citizens, there are many strategies that can be adopted: the commission's proposal for dialogue, democracy and debate is certainly one of them, but i think that three actions in particular could really give europeans a strong signal of our political will: (i) to close the reflection phase in order to give a concrete boost to the constitutional process; (ii) to increase transparency in the decision-making process and, i would add, in the administration. in this connection i thank the finnish presidency for its efforts in this direction, which i hope will have concrete results; (iii) to try to find a convincing and workable solution to the question of the double seat of parliament, a problem which certainly does not contribute to the image of efficiency and attention we want to give our citizens. on the international level, as prime minister matti vanhanen has said, the eu is a community of values and its starting point is peace and stability. one of the commitments the eu has made to the international community is to promote these values beyond its borders. i hope, therefore, that the council will support parliament's requests in this regard, as regards the instruments to be used to finance international cooperation and the promotion of democratization and human rights. in this area too, it is important to ensure a strong, consistent and effective commitment and, once again, transparency in decisions and implementation to ensure that our actions have the credibility they deserve.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, latin america is the loquimur of europe. we speak latin in europe. as a citizen of rome and a citizen of europe, i thank finland for its decision to inaugurate this six-month presidency of the union also in latin. but mine is not just a formal thank you. the choice has a profound meaning: the first, fundamental element of european unification was the roman civilization, which inherited the greek civilization. the latin language, the great infrastructures, the law, the immense internal market and, finally, the pax augusta were the foundations on which christianity took root, a real bridge between western and eastern europe. a prominent european archaeologist and writer, valerio massimo manfredi, wrote: "rome was above all a great ideal". to paraphrase those words, we could say, "europe is above all a great ideal". we cannot afford to give up this great ideal, giving europe a fundamental law that will enable it to give 450 million citizens the answers to the problems that concern them most: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the president will have our support. finland has the important task of continuing the work of austria in preparing the next german-led six-month period, which will be decisive in bringing about finally the constitutional treaty that europe needs to be closer to its citizens. we shall be celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the treaties in rome. let us ensure that, just as those who became roman citizens in ancient times felt proud and secure in the guarantees they received from the institutions, so too tomorrow those who will be european citizens, from whatever part of the world they may come, will feel secure and proud to live in an area where human rights, peace, security and freedom are guaranteed and defended. only then will we have won our challenge and the great ideal become a reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, you, like commission president barroso, have often referred in your speeches to the need to give impetus to the europe of results in order to regain the confidence of the citizens, without, of course, setting this europe against the europe of values and the constitution. as rapporteur for reach, in the existing division of labour in this parliament, i am in the category of the sherpas, the results-oriented ones, like my colleague gebhardt. that is why i very much appreciate the fact that you have included the conclusion of the legislative process on reach in the priorities of your presidency and have done so by placing it under the heading 'competitiveness'. while reach is primarily about protecting human health and the environment, it is also a powerful stimulus for innovation. in this sense, both the council and parliament have done a very good job in the years of work that have gone by, because they have brought positions very close together and made this instrument much more usable, also for the purpose of encouraging innovation. i am sure that under your presidency an agreement will be possible at second reading. both lawmakers will have to walk, though. not much, because there has already been a very strong convergence, but we still have to walk. i say this because there will be those who will advise you to stand firm, to go wall to wall. i am willing to walk, and i am sure you will too.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a humanitarian catastrophe is unfolding in gaza at this very moment, involving more than a million civilians. the reports from the un, unicef and wfp speak of a desperate situation. gaza has become a prison where collective punishment is being inflicted on an entire people. the international community had finally agreed to send the palestinians the aid they needed to survive through the european union; but all this is in vain because gaza is virtually isolated and nothing reaches the exhausted and humiliated population. the palestinian question cannot become a humanitarian question, however, because it remains a major political question. the indiscriminate beheading of hamas itself was madness; firstly, because the members of parliament and the ministers represent the majority of the palestinian people in a legitimate way at the moment, but above all because prime minister haniyeh had given the green light to the so-called 'prisoners' document' and had in fact dissociated himself from the more intransigent positions of the representatives of hamas in syria, avoiding the referendum and paving the way for a coalition government in palestine. with these actions, the israeli authorities are faced with the objective risk of once again favouring the most extremist and violent factions in the palestinian world. corporal ghilad shalit must be freed, as a whole people must be freed from the grip of an army that tramples all legality. the european parliament has in the past pressed for aid to the palestinian people not to be cut off, and today it is calling on the european governments and the presidency to enforce respect for fundamental human rights so that life can return to gaza and political prospects can be reopened in place of violence and oppression. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are following with concern and anxiety the situation in the holy land, which is becoming more serious every day and is in danger of turning into an international crisis and, even more so, into a humanitarian tragedy. i think it is right to start with the words of the pope, who has called for the release of all the abductees and for the search for negotiations between the israelis and the palestinians, with the decisive contribution of the international community, and europe first and foremost, in favour of a return to peace. in this tragic moment, only dialogue and the cessation of hostilities on both sides can stop the unacceptable escalation of violence. we welcomed the agreement between fatah and hamas on the prisoners' document, which implicitly recognises the existence of israel, but we must take further steps, first and foremost by releasing the israeli soldier. europe has done well to launch a call for restraint and peace with one voice, but more courage and firmness are needed. the international community must really play a leading role and assume full responsibility for ensuring peace in the middle east, halting the violence and bringing israelis and palestinians back to the negotiating table. in conclusion, i would like to quote again the pope, who reaffirmed israel's right to exist in peace, but also appealed to the international community to really support the palestinian people so that they can overcome the precarious conditions in which they live and build their future, moving towards the establishment of a proper state. we are confident that if these words are heard, we can finally return to the path of dialogue and peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, do not imitate the italian government's equivocal 'equivocity': the gaza strip has become an institutionalized launching pad for terrorist attacks. the hamas militias have put the institutional choice on the back burner and have brought back the picture in the midst of terrorism. that's the whole point. we cannot equate terrorism with israel's military choices, nor with the human rights violations that we also condemn, but if the decision-making power of hamas is in the hands of the heterogeneous butchers from syria and iran, what can the soft invitations of the european parliamentarians to the hamas government achieve? our inspectors have failed to prevent the shameful trafficking of millions of dollars that have been smuggled into hamas's suitcases and are not intended for the needs of the palestinian people. but this problem must be dealt with by the european taxpayer.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this parliament is always called upon to a lofty and difficult task: the european union is a major player in the fight against terrorism. on saturday, we will remember, we will be standing with our british friends to commemorate the 50 people who died in london in last year's bombing. we have another goal, equally difficult: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is the reason for our commission, the truth about the rights denied to those who have been accused of being our enemies, but who, as human beings, as defendants, have the right to a lawyer, to a trial, to a judge, to a dignified and humane treatment. without rights, mr president, there is no law, there is only the manifestation of force, there is only arbitrariness. when we talk about extraordinary renditions - and this is the first subject that our committee has dealt with - we are talking about an arbitrariness, wanted by some countries and accepted by others, in the name of the fight against terrorism. extraordinary renditions are extraordinary renditions of terrorist suspects captured by the cia and handed over to compliant countries, willing to interrogate them by any means and detain them without trial. in these years, mr president, the rendition has been a fact, not an opinion or an illusion. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. we reserve the conclusions on our work, on what we have learned in these months and what we hope to learn in the coming months for the final report, but we have a duty, even now, to speak of a broad, generalized competition of faults, which affects several european countries with different levels of responsibility: some were complicit, some covered up illegal operations, some simply turned the other cheek. a few hours ago, the news from italy reported that the investigating judge in milan had signed a precautionary custody order against the deputy director of the italian military security service, sismi, for being an accomplice in the kidnapping of abu omar, the imam of milan who was kidnapped and for whom 22 precautionary custody orders are pending against as many cia agents. i would also like to remind you of the seriousness of the fact that the director of sismi, general pollari, came before our committee to say that his agency had never had any information about that kidnapping. we note that your deputy has been arrested for being considered responsible for this kidnapping. it is true, mr president, that we are not a court of justice, but this fact places an additional responsibility on us at the political and institutional level and it also places an additional responsibility on the governments, the member states to whom we are addressing ourselves, because the burden of proof - precisely because we are not a court of justice - is a burden that must be shared with the governments, from whom we will ask for full cooperation and the whole truth in the coming months. we would like to work, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the truth without adjectives, about the facts, about responsibility, and above all to ensure - and i believe that this is the ultimate aim of our committee - that these facts and abuses are never repeated on european territory or to the detriment of european citizens. thanks to the work of our assistants, the officials of the commission, whom i want to thank, we have reconstructed in detail a complex system of aircraft, of shadow companies, which the cia has used in these years for its missions; we have meticulously reconstructed the route of over a thousand flights, which we have made available to our colleagues in parliament. many of those flights, we know, were routine flights, used to transport material or officials, but not all: on those planes were brutally loaded and transported to their prisons abu omar, maher arar, khaled el-masri, mohamed algiza and many more. these flights have landed with impunity in our airports, used our skies and benefited from our silence, and only in one case out of 1,084 flights, has a police officer claimed to be able to identify the crew and passengers. mr president, we have given voice and voice to the victims of flagrant miscarriages of justice, but also to those who have enabled this committee to function. we now have a difficult task ahead of us, for which we ask parliament to be allowed to extend our work until the end of the mandate, knowing that the truth we have finally obtained and consolidated will be a treasure to be made available to all european countries and, of course, to this parliament as well. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the council has been asked to give an opinion on this matter, i am pleased to be able to take part in this debate on behalf of the council. first of all, i would like to say that the subject of the interim report is extremely important and i consider the initiative of the european parliament and the european council and its parliamentary assembly to be very important and significant in this respect. it is a question of the realisation of fundamental rights in europe and of action against terrorism. these things must not be in conflict. all counter-terrorism measures must be consistent with international law obligations and no compromise of international law obligations on human rights, refugees or humanitarian issues can be accepted in the name of counter-terrorism measures. however, with reference to the interim report before us, i would like to emphasize that the treaties do not give the european union competence in the matters under discussion, and national intelligence information does not fall within the scope of the treaty, since the member states have unanimously decided to reserve the monitoring of the activities of national intelligence services to themselves. this does not mean, of course, that the council has been passive on the issues raised by the report. since last november, public suspicions have been raised about the cia's prisoner transport flights and illegal detention centres in europe. the european union's foreign ministers discussed this information at the general affairs council meeting on 21 november. following this discussion, on 29 november 2005, jack straw, the foreign minister of the then presidency, wrote on behalf of the european union to condoleezza rice, the us secretary of state, seeking to ascertain the us government's views on these allegations. the us secretary of state, on 5 december, before his visit to europe, issued a detailed statement on the subject. the statement said the united states believes that international treaties are binding on its own actions, and the united states respects the sovereignty of other countries, and will not transport detainees to countries where they would be subjected to interrogation or otherwise torture. the european union foreign ministers and foreign minister rice discussed the matter later during foreign minister rice's visit to brussels. since the beginning of the year, there has been a close dialogue with the united states on the above issues at various levels and in different formations. human rights have been discussed on several occasions with the united states. the debate also focused on the need to respect international law in the fight against terrorism. the latest issue was raised at the us-eu summit in vienna on 21 june. the european union has repeatedly urged the us government to grant full access to the un human rights rapporteurs in quantanamo bay. the eu foreign ministers have stated that the european union remains seriously concerned about quantanamo bay and this issue has been discussed with the united states on several occasions. the eu believes that the us government should take action to close quantanamo as soon as possible. in this context, the union welcomed the remarks made by president bush at the vienna summit, indicating his willingness to close the detention centre at quantanamo bay. as the finnish presidency of the council, finland will naturally continue to raise human rights issues in its dialogue with the united states. it is very important in our presidency.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, certainly on the eve of the anniversary of the terrorist attack in london, the fight against terrorism must remain the main objective of the european security strategy and this is a good opportunity to recall this, along with the statement, which must be made clearly, that respect for the fundamental rights of every human being is the other element to be included in the european security strategy. it is clear that when we pay attention to the guarantees of freedom and the fundamental rights of the people, we unwittingly risk giving an argument to the propaganda of the very terrorists we have to fight. the search for truth is therefore necessary and i would like to remind you that this is a matter of historical truth, judicial truth and a search for accountability, and it is clear that the european commission's contribution in this respect has been, is and will be a convincing contribution. i would like to point out that the european commission has made a convincing contribution - and i believe that president coelho can attest to this - by helping and strongly supporting, from day one, the temporary committee's request to obtain eurocontrol data, which, according to the report, were among the most important elements in the identification of certain facts. i also strongly supported the requests of the temporary committee of parliament to have access to the european agency's satellite photographs. we have worked with our colleagues in the council to ensure that the request was granted quickly, and i believe that this too has been a useful element in the work of this first phase of the temporary committee. i have also reminded the ministers of the interior of the member states three times of the importance of cooperating with the temporary committee of parliament, of cooperating with the council of europe, in other words of developing national investigations and investigations in countries where this has not yet happened. i can tell you in advance that at the next council of ministers, the first under the finnish presidency, which will take place on 24 july, i will renew my invitation to the interior ministers of the 25 member states to continue to cooperate with the temporary committee of parliament. i note and agree that the temporary committee of parliament does not consider itself to be a kind of 'european super-court', and this is a very important element in the indication of institutional responsibilities. i do, however, believe that the elements set out in the report are useful tools, which should be evaluated very thoroughly. some elements have already been assessed as they were already available to the many national judicial authorities involved in investigations, sometimes very in-depth, which began long ago. i believe that the national authorities, also in the light of the data in this report, can and should now carry out these checks more vigorously, even in cases where they have not yet been carried out. and that they must do so with the guarantees of the trials, which are the guarantees of the rule of law, the full right for the victims - which you also heard in part - and for those who are accused, to prove elements until a judgment defines when and if there is responsibility for specific facts. that is the outcome that i think we all want: to finally get the full and satisfactory truth about these charges. i think it is important to have confidence in the decisions which the courts of the member states will take. i would like to make one final comment on the prospects for the future, which i find equally interesting. i would like to make a few comments on the reform of the so-called intelligence services, a reform which is a matter for national competence but which i believe could be the subject of a wider reflection. it could be considered whether, for example, the rules on transparency, in the sense of the relationship with parliament's bodies, could be improved at national level; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. if there is to be some sort of national parliamentary control over the financial resources of the secret services, because everyone knows that if you control the financial resources, you can have a significant impact on the functional activity. finally, i would like to mention the reference in the report to the need to define new rules on non-commercial aviation, including civil aircraft, that is to say, the definition of 'state aircraft' or 'employed for state activities'. i can tell you that the commission is ready to discuss this matter with the temporary committee in the next part-session, because finding a european definition, for example of state aircraft, could be a good step forward in a field which, as you know, is not sufficiently covered by national legislation. i therefore confirm my commitment to working with the president and the members of the temporary committee and i thank you.
i had hoped that mr fava would not have mentioned today's italian case, but since he did, i would like to say to him, as an italian member of parliament and not as the coordinator of the epp, that today osama bin laden is happy that in my country, instead of arresting terrorists, we are focusing on arresting those who hunt terrorists. as regards the report, mr president, i think it is not enough for the rapporteur to say that he can accept some of our amendments. it is a very biased report, which takes only critical views of the united states into account. two examples: the commission has so far refused to include two statements by solana and de vries in the report because they said things that were not to their liking, that did not satisfy the left and because they said that they were not aware of any breach of the law by the member states of europe in their cooperation with the cia. now, as a great concession, it seems they want to accept it. but they refuse to accept another statement because it goes against the so-called truth they are trying to impose on us, the statement of an expert from human rights watch, which, as we know, is not a pro-bush organization, who told our committee: "we have suspects, but we have no proof". we all know that the americans have made mistakes, for which we must criticize them and even condemn them, but if they have made mistakes, it is because they are doing something. i would like to see in this report an acknowledgement that if we are here today to talk about the cia problem, it is thanks to the american press, the american congress and the american people, and not thanks to them. there is no record of that in the report. for all these reasons we remain very critical of this report and also very disappointed. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank mr fava and mr coelho for the work they have done in this committee and for the fact that this work has shown us that extraordinary renditions are part of this wrong strategy, undertaken in the name of the fight against terrorism. this is a wrong strategy, based on the theory of preventive war and the restriction of the rule of law. this strategy has not weakened terrorism, but has, on the contrary, fuelled it, radicalized it and even helped it to achieve its own objectives. the united states supreme court explained to us just a few days ago, following the guantánamo ruling, that between 2001 and 2003, more than half of the prisoners at guantánamo were taken from afghanistan, and that means that europe was the transit point for more than two hundred prisoners, that european airports were used as checkpoints, that the us and nato bases in europe were an outpost. we have also found - and this has been confirmed by the work of our committee - that there have been safe abductions, one of which is the obvious case of abu omar. we have investigated the facts in depth and we have also found that - as john bellinger and condoleezza rice have explained to us - this activity of american intelligence was carried out with the involvement of national governments. john bellinger and condoleezza rice have explicitly stated that there has been no violation of national sovereignty. we should also mention this, mr grawronski, not just snippets of sinfton's speeches. i think what has emerged strongly is that european governments have been complicit in these actions of american intelligence on european soil. an italian policeman confessed; today, the number two of the italian intelligence agency, sismi, was arrested. i think we need to be clearer. finally, the head of italian intelligence, dr. pollari, either lied to our committee, or he didn't know the activities of his number two: both are serious. the same applies to commissioner frattini, who i think should clarify this point. commissioner frattini was foreign minister at the time of the events, or he did not know, as he told the committee, or he did not know the agreements of ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the practice of the cia in relation to what we are discussing today is not unlike a long-standing tradition of the us governments. from the civil war onwards, from the genocide of the american indians, to the collusion with the khmer rouge of cambodia. the fava report, which is supported by little evidence, thanks to the obstacles faced by the commission by many governments of the union, is not, in itself, sufficient to highlight the political dependence of europe. no one wants to defend terrorists, no one wants to make a demagogic anti-americanism, but we must not fail to take note of the violations of human rights and the repeated violations of the sovereignty of the eu's member countries as a whole. failure to do so would be serving anti-european interests.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are discussing has the important objective of holding individuals or organisations accountable for any crimes committed in violation of human rights. however, this report cannot and must not turn into an instrumental indictment of the united states and other countries at the forefront of the fight against terrorism. political ends can never distort the truth in defiance of the principles of law. as regards the events in italy, i would like to make a few points. firstly, the italian government and the security services have always declared, in all the parliamentary chambers, that they are totally unaware of the events surrounding the capture of abu omar and no one has been able to prove the contrary. i would also like to express my solidarity with mr frattini, who was attacked by mr catania. the institutions cannot be held liable for any personal liability. secondly, last monday abu omar was arrested again in cairo for being a danger to the security of the egyptian state. thirdly, the mosque in milan's jenner avenue, which is known outside italy for its involvement in terrorism investigations, was pleased today to see the arrest of the two representatives of the military secret service. i am also surprised at the one-sided guaranteeism displayed by the rapporteur in this matter, who, contrary to european legal culture, confuses arrest with conviction, a confusion which he never expressed in relation to abu omar. fourthly, the magistrate who arrested the two sismi executives simultaneously ordered a search of the offices of a newspaper and the homes of two journalists who had covered the abu omar case. this is a clear violation of press freedom, especially since the action was taken against a newspaper that is highly critical of the government and committed to the fight against terrorism. in conclusion, it is good to remember that during the five years of centre-right government in italy there have been no terrorist attacks, indeed many were thwarted. thanks to the sacrifices of the police, the armed forces, the security services, many lives have been saved.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, first of all i would like to welcome minister lehtomäki. i just want to say that i listened to what he said and i think it is necessary to remind him that the council of ministers or the summit of heads of state is our government. if he does not have the legal or political tools to make a decision about this scandal that follows the airplane scandal - i mean swift - nothing prevents him from asserting his moral virtue and publicly saying what he thinks about it, which, so far and to my knowledge, is not the case. the second thing i want to say is that i have taken note of what the vice-president, commissioner frattini, has said about his own ignorance and that of his services in this matter. i share the view of my two colleagues, mrs klamt and mrs roure, who have just spoken on this subject. we have gradually built up in europe, and more particularly in the union, a rule of law where any transfer of personal data to third countries must comply with national or european rules. the first of these rules states that any transfer must be authorized by a judicial authority and no one else. neither a state nor a bank owns the information they use. if this data concerns companies, it is the property of those companies; if it concerns individuals, it is their property. there's no way anyone else can use them in transactions, take them over, subcontract them and god knows what else. i would remind you that the legal instrument exists, and i would remind you of what mrs roure has just said: it would be a very important step if we were to manage to settle this matter under the finnish presidency. i would also like to say one last thing. there is a french proverb which says: "beware of my friends, i'll take care of my enemies!" the enemy is terrorism. our friends are the americans. after the hijacked planes, after the abduction of european citizens - wrongly or rightly suspected - after the illegal transfer of prisoners by planes landing on european soil, we now learn that our ally, and yet friend, is digging into our bank accounts! when are the blood tests? when are the birth certificates and everything? that's enough! it is absolutely necessary that this parliament put an end to this sort of thing. i will end by saying that terrorism is, if i understand correctly, the enemy of liberties. freedom is the enemy of terrorism. it is certainly not the enemy of the people. the united states must now choose its side in this matter too.
i think it would be wrong to regard the swift affair as an isolated incident. it is a matter that must be placed in a wider context, which speaks to us of pnr, of communication control, of data retention and is not a topic unconnected to that of which we spoke until a few minutes ago, that is to say, with regard to renditions. but i would say that the swift case of the other hand of rendition is perhaps a less violent operation, but with the same identical objective, which is to extort information. the systematic monitoring of the lives of european citizens has become a fact of life and we are faced with what george orwell called the 'big brother' who has now materialized in the name of the fight against terrorism. i think that the european central bank and the national banks should be investigated for their responsibilities, because i think that is unacceptable. a week ago, le soir, the leading belgian daily, ran the headline: "the cia called law in europe". i believe that this must be prevented in the name of the credibility and the very future of europe.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i think we should be alarmed by the red thread that holds together many of the arguments and many of the debates we have in this house. we could comment on the subject we are now discussing with a reflection we made a little while ago in the debate on cia flights, namely that the union is a space bound by the rules and principles of the rule of law and that, therefore, personal data, all personal data, including those relating to our current accounts, cannot be provided to third countries except in cases provided for by national laws and now by european directives and that no derogations are provided for, not even in the name of the fight against terrorism. anything beyond that is arbitrary and an abuse. what we are asking - and i join other colleagues in asking this question - is to know what the role and level of awareness of the council and the european central bank is on the secret agreements that have been made between swift and the us government, because the duty of transparency cannot belong only to our conversations and debates in this house, it must also exist outside this house. i also agree with the request to the council to examine and adopt a framework decision on data protection as a matter of urgency, because it is in the vacuum of the law that abuse and arbitrariness lurk.
the joint debate is scheduled for - the oral question by mrs doris pack, on behalf of the ppe-de group, mrs gisela kallenbach, on behalf of the green group, mr hannes swoboda, on behalf of the pse group, mr erik meijer, mr ignasi guardans cambó, mr jelko kacin and mr henrik lax to the council, on visa policy towards the western balkans (o-0063/2006 - b6-0315/2006) and - the oral question by mrs sarah ludford, mr jelko kacin, mr henrik lax, mr ignasi guardans cambó, on behalf of the alde group, to the council, on simplification of visa procedures for western balkans countries (o-0077/2006 - b6-0320/2006) and - the oral question by mrs sarah ludford, mr jelko kacin, mr henrik guardans and mr ignasi lax, on behalf of the pse group, to the commission, on simplification of visa procedures for western balkans countries (o-0021/2006 - b6-078/2006)
the debate is closed.
the agenda for the joint debate is the following: - report by mr richard corbett, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the interinstitutional agreement in the form of a joint declaration concerning the proposal for a council decision amending decision 1999/468/ec laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the commission [10126/1/2006 - c6-0208/2006 - 2006/2152(aci) ] (a6-0237/2006); - report by mr richard corbett, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amended proposal for a council decision amending decision 1999/468/ec laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the commission [10126/1/2006 - c6-0190/2006 - 2002/0298 (cns) ] (a6-0236/2006);
mr corbett, i have finally understood what comitology is, and when i am in yorkshire i will go to all the pubs and explain what it is.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the joint debate is scheduled to start on the report by mr gaubert, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision introducing a procedure for mutual information on member states' measures in the fields of asylum and immigration (com (2005) 0480 - c6-0335/2005 - 2005/0204 (cns)) (a6-0186/2006); on the report by mr lambrinidis, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the strategies and means of integrating immigrants into the european union (com (2006) 2056 (ini)) (a6-0190/2006), on the oral question by mr martin schulz and mr martine roure, on behalf of the pse group, to the commission on the introduction of a mutual information procedure on member states' measures in the fields of asylum and immigration (com (2005) 0480 - c6-0335/2005 - 2005/0204 (cns)) (a6-0186/2006), on the question by mr roberti, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the strategies and means of integrating immigrants into the european union (com (2006) 2056 (ini)) (a6-0190190/2006), on the oral question by mr veronline) and mr veron, on behalf of the committee on immigration, mr jean roult, on the proposal for a council decision on the proposal for a council decision on the establishment of a procedure for a council decision on the mutual information procedure for the exchange of views on the proposal for a joint debate on the proposal for a european parliament and information report by the commission on the proposal for a decision on the proposal for a directive on the adoption of the european parliament and the proposal for a directive on the
i believe that the problem facing europe is not the flow of migrants, the real problem is not the people who arrive on our territory, but the large number of people who cannot reach europe, those who die in the mediterranean and the atlantic. i heard commissioner frattini reiterate the need to patrol our coasts. i think that they should be patrolled exclusively to prevent people from dying at sea, because the numbers of arrivals are ridiculous: in the first half of 2006, 9 000 immigrants arrived in the canary islands, compared with the 8 million tourists who arrive each year. the impact of migration does not seem to me to be very high in terms of demography, so we should avoid talking about an invasion of immigrants and we should try to formulate a common policy for the entry of immigrants. europe has instead adopted a common policy of repression, setting up administrative detention centres, a common policy of mass expulsion often determined by the g5 summits, a logic of outsourcing borders which, it seems, will be the central topic of discussion at the next rabat summit. i believe that we should radically change our strategy, thinking about genuine integration, starting from the need to establish a mixed identity for europe, and also thinking about citizenship of residence, a residence permit to look for work, harmonization of the right of asylum and the right to vote for immigrants. i believe that this new way of thinking about immigration can help europe in its constituent process.
on behalf of the uen group. i am aware that the problem of illegal immigration in the mediterranean, seen from here, from strasbourg or brussels, from the heart of the european continent, may seem to many to be a marginal issue, a question to be tackled with the cold and formal language of the bureaucracy and with the complicity of community policy, which can sometimes be cynical and hypocritical. but if you live day and night in sicily, which is the furthest point of europe from the mediterranean, you have no difficulty in denouncing, within the walls of this chamber, what is a real human tragedy: last year alone, mr commissioner, over 20 000 illegal immigrants arrived on the coast of sicily, twice as many as have landed on all the mediterranean coasts of europe in the last two years. every day hundreds of arrivals, the same ordeal, the same way of the cross. the shipwrecks off the coast and then the corpses washed up on the sicilian beaches. it is a tragedy that sees protagonists and young victims, women and children fleeing their countries, in search of a dream that no one can ever realize: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. he's responding slowly and weakly. only last december did the brussels european council propose a set of generic actions to be implemented in 2006 and invited the commission to coordinate their implementation. but the financial resources are limited - it is said - and the additional resources cannot be provided before 2007. that is not enough, commissioner. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. you are known for being a person of decisive and concrete action, we invite you to give us yet another and further demonstration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am not a maltese, but while i am aware that the committee on civil liberties is doing a magnificent job, i regret that the finnish presidency is not here, which began its work today and is not here, perhaps because of the game, perhaps because of the timetable or perhaps because of inattention (since immigration is one of the subjects of the finnish presidency). i can therefore only turn to commissioner frattini, who is certainly the most important voice of this european union which is taking an interest in this problem. i have had the pleasure and honor of leading a number of tours in various countries. i would like to give a message to commissioner frattini tonight so that he can convey it, and i also hope that some council official will take note of it and report it to the finnish presidency. i don't want to make a programmatic or political speech: "i understand everything, i see everything". malta, commissioner frattini, is not what it is called, because rightly here our maltese colleagues make comparisons with germany, italy, spain, etc., while there are people unjustly detained there. we have spoken about many things in this house today, this great european union values the rights of everyone, including the bombers, except for the thousands of people who are detained in malta. i have so many of those letters and texts about these people that i could write a novel. commissioner frattini, if this european council, this european union, does not want to be truly hypocritical with regard to malta, it must take away those people who have been detained there for months, for years. malta is not in a position to solve the problem. the european union, the big countries, should take care of taking away those 2-3 000 individuals who are selling malta and making it a xenophobic country, which, by the way, is regretting having joined the european union. let's avoid that problem. let's see that those prisoners are transferred from malta to other countries much larger than the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i speak on behalf of the new italian socialist party. i thank the commission and the rapporteur for dealing with this subject. the proposed strategies, which are mainly aimed at facilitating financial transactions and the transfer of pension rights, are two feasible measures which would have a substantial impact on the precarious resources of many immigrants. but i also think that the proposal to channel the revenue generated to measures which promote the development of the country of origin is extremely important and reasonable. if it is true, as the report says, that better management of migration is conducive to development, it is also true that we should ensure that the most competent human resources can find interesting opportunities in their home countries or that they are encouraged to bring back their accumulated resources and experience for the benefit of their community. i am referring in particular to doctors, professionals, teachers and researchers. it is rather utopian nowadays to believe that after years of study and work in europe, a third country national can spontaneously decide to return to a country lacking adequate social structures and systems. this requires a very careful eye on the management of the funds that can be generated, so that the efforts of individuals and the international community are not wasted.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to stress the incompleteness of the report, which speaks of the rights of immigrants without, however, referring to their duties. the danger that certain forms of exaggerated religious evaluation bring to our europe is also completely ignored. i cannot forget that there have been murders - the latest is that of theo van gogh - and that our freedom, because of certain forms used by immigrants, has been considerably restricted, so much so that it has become dangerous or even impossible to wear a satirical t-shirt like the one i have here with me. there is no reference to this in the report.
i should like to amend the title before paragraph 6. instead of ‘most of which are alleged’, it should read ‘some of which are alleged’. there was a linguistic mistake in the original version.
i would like to make a few comments on the amendments tabled by the group of the european people's party. it was only yesterday, after the deadline for tabling amendments, that we learned of major developments in the italian investigation into the abduction of abu omar. we think it is logical, proper and necessary to update the text of the amendment. whereas amendment no 15 should be replaced by the following: 'since the organisation has been organised' must be added: "with the involvement of two senior sismi officials and carried out with the help of a carabiniere as evidenced by recent developments in the judicial investigation". i would ask my colleagues, even those who disagree with me on the substance, not to prevent the oral amendment from being tabled as we did with mr gawronski earlier, because it simply describes the current judicial situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that in voting in favour of this report we should welcome what is perhaps a positive fact, namely that the european parliament, instead of continually taking it out on the united states of america, is beginning to look at the respect of the law by the european union and the member states, because too often in the face of illegality and abuse that has existed, for example on the transfer of personal data, on air passenger traffic, we have in fact covered up the illegality of the united states, our own, our inability to respect our own rules. it is time to take responsibility for ourselves and i believe that the fava report is a first step in that direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fava report we voted on today, although some of our amendments were accepted, remains biased, partial and full of prejudice and tends to support hypotheses which are not supported by any evidence. it is a partial text whose contents differ even from the positions of the italian government. it was president romano prodi himself, with an official statement to deny mr. fava on the abu omar affair. while fava rejected my amendment, which argued that there was no evidence of the involvement of the italian government and intelligence, last night palazzo chigi confirmed its confidence in our intelligence services. fava's attitude shows how much bad faith exists in the italian left that does not want to give up an obsolete anti-americanism and the use of european institutions to attack opponents.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. when you make bank transfers in a foreign country, it's really a business transaction, and the personal data that comes out of that transaction is data that can't be used in a systematic way for security purposes. in confirming my vote in favour of this resolution, i would like to stress that this is not just a problem of illegal transfer of data to a third country, but also the problem of the use of data collected for commercial purposes which are used for security purposes. the european court of human rights has ruled that this is a case of general surveillance, which is against european directives, against the legislation of the member states, and that is another reason why we support the swift report.
, member of the commission. mr president, i should like to start by saying that this commission and i, as commissioner for trade, are fully committed to working very closely with parliament, in line with the framework agreement governing relations between the two institutions. as this question rightly points out, the legal basis for this measure – article 133 of the ec treaty – does not provide specifically for consultation of the european parliament on this proposal for an ‘origin marking’ scheme. however, in line with our commitment to keep the european parliament fully informed, on a par with the council, of the conduct and conclusion of international negotiations, as well as legislative initiatives, the proposal and the accompanying impact assessment were transmitted on 12 january 2006 to the european parliament via the committee on international trade. i should like to refer to paragraph 2 of the motion for a resolution that you have before you. the language of that paragraph is slightly unfortunate because it could, as it is written at the moment, be read as if the commission had not sent any document at all on ‘origin marking’ to parliament. as i said, we sent it as an article 133 document to the inta committee. i believe that it would certainly be fairer to me and to the commission – and more accurate – if an adjustment were made to the wording. our intention has been, and continues to be, to act in line with both the letter and the spirit of the framework agreement. to meet the commitment in that agreement, and in addition to the many formal and informal contacts that i have with you, the commission tries hard to share a maximum of information with parliament, just as i did last week in geneva. in particular we sent to the inta committee copies of all policy documents that are being discussed in the council’s 133 committee. if a more formal interinstitutional way to bring this issue to your attention should have been used on that occasion, the opportunity was certainly not missed on purpose. i very much welcome the interest you have already shown in this proposal through several questions on the subject, which we have answered. so let me now come to our proposal. we have proposed a mandatory origin marking scheme, to create transparency about the origin of certain imported goods according to a single standard by which origin is determined. this system will allow consumers to take informed decisions; it will reduce the incidence of fraudulent or misleading origin marking. we believe it will help improve the image of european goods and will help our competitiveness. while it is clear that ‘made in’ marking as such does not contain information on the social, labour or environmental conditions in the country of production, origin information helps the consumer to choose between different available alternatives according to their preferences and the background information they already have. as regards wto compatibility, the commission believes its proposal is in line with international rules, notably article 9 of the gatt. that provides that wto members may adopt and enforce laws and regulations relating to marks of origin on imports, notably to protect consumers against fraudulent or misleading indications. concerning the enforcement of the proposal, the commission considers that customs authorities are well placed to ensure that the requirements of the proposed scheme are respected, just as they do with many other rules on environmental, health and technical issues. that part of customs work is crucial to ensuring that our businesses can trade on a level playing field and that consumers draw the full benefits of globalisation. i should add that in addition to possible controls carried out before the products are released into the internal market, the regulation provides for member states to check origin marking on goods that are already on the market. that should enable member states to draw on other expertise in policing the scheme, for example by working with those who are presently involved in the enforcement of national rules concerning the voluntary use of origin marking. as you will be aware, mr president, the commission proposal is being debated in the council and i am of course ready to keep you informed as discussions on the proposal move forward.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the compulsory indication of the mark of origin proposed by the commission must be accepted because it has a twofold purpose: the commission's proposal is to inform the consumer more and to make the most of the industrial system of those european countries which are investing large resources in innovation in order to convert their production systems to excellence. we must seek to restore a minimum of equality of rules with those trading areas, china, the united states, canada, japan, which have already introduced the 'made in' system, knowing that this does not entail any risk of illegality. we need a more transparent market and more controls, we need to reduce legal uncertainty and curb counterfeiting and unfair competition. all this can be achieved, directly or indirectly, by making imports 'made in' without additional costs for european producers, exporters and consumers, thus creating a level playing field with trading partners who have already implemented the standard, in line with the political and cultural choice which has been and is intended to create, extend and strengthen an ever larger and freer market in the world. it will also make it possible to develop a quality manufacturing industry, and i emphasize quality, which in many european countries is wrongly considered to be a light industry, which is also a major social issue that europe cannot forget, so that the lisbon objectives are pursued in practice and not with abstract claims. finally, this is an opportunity to put a few questions to the commission. what is the commission's strategy for strengthening the external aspects of european competitiveness, given the very close relationship between industry and trade, between production and promotion? what means does the commission intend to use to achieve this? why has the commission confined itself to incorporating the products of those sectors which have requested it into the proposal and not extended it to all industrial products, as the united states of america has done? these are questions which seem natural to ask in an increasingly globalised world, which must grow in freedom, without protectionism, but also in compliance with the rules that govern the general interest, first of all that of citizens and consumers.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate allows us to make two opposite points to the commission. on the one hand, we criticise the fact that the commission has not informed parliament of the initiatives taken in the field of indication of the country of origin. this is a breach of the interinstitutional framework agreement of 26 may 2005 and i do not think that it can be justified by reference to article 133 of the treaty. on the other hand, however, the content of the proposal, on which parliament is still able to give its opinion today, allows me to express the approval of my whole group for an initiative which has been awaited for a long time and which has already been encouraged by the italian centre-right government in the past. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the products it produces. the indication of the country of origin for certain categories of products of major importance, from footwear to clothing, is wrongly seen by some and in some sectors as a measure having an effect equivalent to trade barriers. it is not so, just remember that famous article 133 of the treaty establishing the european community, article 9 of gatt and the recent opinion of the council's legal service. in addition, important trading partners and competitors of the union, such as the united states, china, japan and canada, have legislation in this area. the adoption of a regulation on trade marks of origin would finally put europe on an equal footing with the above countries, avoiding unjustified differentiation which would result in heavy penalties not only for european producers but above all for all consumers, including non-european consumers. the indication of the country of origin of the goods is a guarantee for the consumer who is finally able to associate with his choices safety and quality assessments, in addition to those on the social and environmental conditions in force in the country of origin of the goods. we must proceed with transparency and clarity, criteria which are all too often ignored. we call on the commission to ensure that all member states take a firm stand on consumer protection, which can only be guaranteed by the rules in force in the union, which protect quality and safety, and by the mark of origin which ensures that no one, whether inside or outside the territory of the union, can bypass these criteria. we ask the commission to ensure that the rules are applied, both in respect of the trademarks and the composition of the products, and we thank it for its speed, because the faster the speed, the better the protection of our fellow citizens.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has not given sufficient support to the efforts to restore peace and the democratic structure of the institutions that were established at the national reconciliation conference in nairobi in september 2003. conference which adopted the transitional federal constitutional charter. the inauguration of the federal parliament, the election of the president of the parliament and his deputies, the election of the president of the republic by the parliament on 10 october 2004 in the person of abdullah yusuf ahmed and the appointment of the prime minister of the federal government were important steps; but the aid and support of the union has been too weak, and the lack of timely intervention on behalf of the population has left the way open to the resurgence of fundamentalist radicalism, which is increasingly dangerous because it is allied with terrorism. since 1991, the civil war has been raging in mogadishu and the surrounding areas, with devastating effects on the population. in the past, global and regional terrorism, with training bases in somalia, has produced the attacks in nairobi, dar es salaam and mombasa, and in recent days in mogadishu, the union of islamic courts has led to the death of at least three hundred and fifty civilians. for many years we in this parliament have been stressing the need for europe to pay greater attention to the problems of somalia and its aspiration to return to being a democratic state. the federal parliament has recently approved by a large majority the intervention of international peacekeeping forces in somalia as part of the national security plan. this is to answer the islamic courts. we must be aware of the danger of the plan of political destabilization being implemented by the galaxy of international fundamentalism throughout africa, and of the danger of osama bin laden's message, in support of the supreme council of the somali islamic courts and against the legitimate president of the republic. the union and the international community must support and protect the role played by president abdullah yusuf ahmed in his country through the constant dialogue between institutions and civil society, in order to bring about a somali federalism, respecting the identities and rights of minorities. we call on the security council to partially lift the arms embargo on somalia to allow for the legitimate strengthening of the national security forces and for the international community to consolidate the east african presidents' counter-terrorism initiative, which was set up in 2003. the measures to counteract the dangerous domino effect of terrorism throughout the horn of africa must be made effective. the union must appoint a special envoy for the horn of africa and formalise the opening of a somali diplomatic representation in brussels. it is urgent to accelerate support for the presidency, parliament, government, judiciary, security forces and the defence of the health and life of the somali people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to avoid the radicalisation of the conflict in somalia, it is useful for the islamic courts to participate in the transitional federal institutions of the country. it is essential to strengthen somali institutions by recognising that the courts have, at least to date, replaced the system of harassment of the so-called warlords, tolerated and then supported by the us governments. the european union should take up a leading role in africa, as italy has in somalia and throughout the horn of africa for its historical precedents. for example, the blockade on somali immigration to italy, which dini wanted to see removed. it has only weakened good italian-somali relations and has caused somalis to disperse throughout europe except in italy, where affinities and historical responsibilities would advise it. italy hosts immigrants from many countries with which it shares neither colonial historical responsibilities nor cultural affinities, while ignoring somalia. it would make much more sense for each european country to take on the needs of its former colonies, and of course each country should also be given an international mandate to protect these countries.
in writing. the indication of the country of origin of a product in the trade mark represents the strength and transparency of the product, a guarantee for the consumer and a duty to defend national work and enterprises. the defence of european products (at least by relying on the clarity of the brands, the production processes and all the guarantees on them which a consumer has a right to know and which, if you will allow, ethics also imposes) is also indispensable to the 'fair competition' which the dominant criteria of the 'free market' (which is therefore free, but correctly competitive) require. the trademark of origin is not in itself a sufficient guarantee of the above, but at least it represents a first step. the compulsory application of the trademark as provided for in the provisions we are discussing here is only a first indispensable measure of defence against those products which are invading the european market, unfairly competing with our products and harming our undertaking and our work. the traceability of a product and, better still, the absolute transparency of the production process, a fair recognition of quality and research and also of the artisanal and industrial tradition of the nations of europe, are also guarantees for the protection of consumers, as well as of european enterprises and industries. that is why i voted for the new regulation, even though i believe it is only a first step.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the realisation of a people's europe is one of the main aspirations of us european socialists. what is about to be approved by parliament is a concrete piece of action for the other, equally important objective, which we can call the europe for women and for citizens. as we know, the european parliament is only consulted on taxation matters, and the final decision is taken by the council, which must act unanimously. we hope that national governments will support this proposal. the committee on economic and monetary affairs voted overwhelmingly in favour of the proposal because it aims to phase out the registration tax on cars and to identify common european standards for national road taxes to be linked to polluting emissions. this is an important measure, only apparently specialised and limited, but it affects most people. of course, it is not yet optimal and much more could be done, but it is moving in the right direction: it is a step forward on the road to convergence, if not to the actual harmonization of legislation within european borders, going beyond national ones. at present each member state has its own taxation system in which the two taxes of very different amounts are often combined. this situation creates distortions and hinders the proper functioning of the internal market and poses problems both for the automobile industry and for european citizens. finally, it is a step forward on the road to social and environmental sustainability of development, which includes the fight against pollution and the protection of the environment to ensure a future for the generations that come after us.
europe, a constant promoter of an evolution of international maritime law to protect the environment, has already achieved the phasing out of single-hull oil tankers on a world scale and increased compensation for victims of oil pollution, has supplemented existing international standards by introducing stricter inspections in community ports, more effective controls of classification societies and more extensive monitoring of maritime traffic. the strict and effective application of international standards by a large trading bloc such as the european union, the world's leading area for the interchange of goods, representing 24% of the world fleet, helps to strengthen the credibility of the standards also vis-à-vis ships flying the flag of a third country. the proposal to equip the european maritime safety agency with additional instruments to support the member states in this battle without frontiers must therefore be supported.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is sad to note that civil protection has only been discussed in this house for a few years and that it is always discussed according to the type of disaster: the earthquake, the day before yesterday, the marine pollution yesterday, the fires and floods today and so on, fragmented topics, fragmented skills, fragmented resources. this alone would justify the tenacity with which my group has for years proposed in this house and to the commission the creation of a european civil protection agency, that is to say, a flexible, lean body, equipped with the skills and human and material resources provided by the member states and capable not only of drawing up a plan for the anticipation and prevention of risks but also and above all of directing and coordinating emergency management in the event of disasters with the necessary speed. the creation of a civil protection agency, commissioner, is all the more necessary after the sad experience of recent years in which so-called community cooperation has proved useless and ineffective, if not even harmful. what good is the experience acquired by individual states in the field of civil protection if europe is not in a position to intervene immediately to manage the emergency, to reduce the damage, to provide relief, to coordinate the volunteers? we want to make sure that if there is one area in which the principle of territoriality does not apply, it is civil protection. has the sad experience of the prestige oil spill or the forest fires this summer taught us nothing, or the bad image when, in the face of the tsunami tragedy, brussels decided to leave the 300 experts of the european task force at home after years of training and preparation? but then let us get out of the misconception of good intentions, commissioner, and try to coordinate our actions, our skills and our resources firmly and formally, so that europe can also play a leading role in protecting the right to life, which is a physiological rather than an institutional right.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the consequences of the results achieved so far in the doha round, such as those of the trips agreement on access to medicines, are having disastrous effects on the living conditions of millions of human beings. it is clear that the slogan "free trade = poverty reduction" was just a bait to convince the poorest countries in the global south to subscribe to the expectations of the industrialized countries. the real reason for the suspension of the wto negotiations was the impossibility of reaching an agreement between the six major nations committed to defending the interests of their agribusiness, the other 143 countries were excluded from the negotiations. the reason for the failure, according to the fao, is that the whole debate has been centred on free trade rather than fair trade. rather than a bad deal, no deal is better! the suspension of negotiations may provide an opportunity for a review of the commission's negotiating mandate which focused on: 1) reform of the wto to make it more transparent, more inclusive and more democratic, integrated into the un system and bound in its decisions by the framework of international law; 2) a review of the three main agreements on the agenda today: agriculture, intellectual property and services; (3) a binding framework for the activities of transnational enterprises; (4) a hierarchy between respect for the rights of peoples and free trade, which requires respect for the human rights clause as voted by parliament on 14 february; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr gröner and all the other colleagues who have worked on this report. i also thank the commissioner for his support and for his words this morning. i am convinced that with the cooperation of all, important results can be achieved, and in this case they have been achieved. first of all, the continuity of the daphne programme has been guaranteed, an important and valuable programme for preventing and combating violence against women and children, which has already achieved significant and partly unexpected results in the past. in addition, an ad hoc budget line has been set aside for the programme, which is properly separated, as the rapporteur has also said, from the programme for the fight against drugs. it is worth noting that some important priorities have also been set as possible daphne objectives, including the fight against domestic violence, a phenomenon which is constantly and worryingly increasing, and the plague of genital mutilation. it was also important to clarify that the term 'child' covers the age range from newborns to 18 years old, although clearly actions can be taken for young people up to 25 years old. it was also agreed that prevention of violence should be directed not only at children, women and groups at risk but also at newborns. in fact, maltreatment of newborns or the abandonment of newborns are phenomena that are growing exponentially, often linked to situations of psychological and social degradation. these are phenomena which could be prevented by assisting and supporting mothers and families in extreme difficulty. it is clear that these are ambitious objectives for which, unfortunately, insufficient financial resources are available. in conclusion, i hope that in the medium-term budget review more resources will be allocated to daphne than at present. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too welcome this measure. i am glad to hear that many of you have expressed a request which i fully share, in the light of the debate i heard in the chamber this morning: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children. the time has come to harmonize legislation on this subject and, pending this, the commission, with the instruments which we are told it is working on, must already now define a very clear and very rigorous position on the policies which the union and its member states must apply, with which we want to distinguish ourselves clearly in relation to these issues. it is true that much has been done in recent years on the subject of equality, the individual states of the european union have legislated on many subjects, but there are still some black holes, which concern this very issue. we must have clear and defined policies in this area because, while we all agree on the need to propose zero tolerance for violence, we do not all agree on the means to be used to achieve this. so, precisely to avoid this risky policy, the programmes to be financed under daphne must respond to clear and rigorous policies defined by the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to express my satisfaction at the agreement reached between the femm committee and the libe committee, an agreement made by the commission itself and for which i thank commissioner frattini, to divide the content of the programme we are discussing into two specific programmes. that said, i would like to express my full support for the gröner report, which i welcome, and in doing so i would like to stress an amendment which i consider particularly important, namely the one which indicates that the national, regional and local authorities are the target groups for awareness-raising. i'll tell you why. in the past few days, there have been cases of violence against young women in milan. the violence has naturally aroused outrage, but there have also been some comments which confirm once again a belief, quite widespread even among the authorities, that there is a sort of co-responsibility of the victims in the violent action. you all remember, i believe, the so-called jeans ruling, and i quote from the comments of the prefect of rome who said that the latest incident, two french girls raped after accepting a ride from two strangers, was mainly due to imprudence. this statement reveals a way of thinking, beyond the prefect's certainly good intentions, according to which if a woman is raped, it is at least partly her responsibility. but is recklessness a crime? i don't think so, and i wouldn't want it to go back to the days when women were asked to stay home at night so they wouldn't be reckless. i would like to remind you that we are talking about programmes to ensure the development of the european union as an area of freedom, i stress 'freedom', together with security and justice.
in writing. i abstained on the final vote because amendment no 67 was adopted. the document is otherwise acceptable and excellent in many respects, but i cannot allow the fight against violence against children to be carried out also by 'adopting new family models' and that the european union should 'add value' to the actions of the states by also promoting new family models. in fact, common experience and a great deal of psychological and sociological research prove that the greatest violence against children consists in the breaking up of the parents' affective relationships, the stability and certainty of which is guaranteed - to the maximum extent possible - by marriage. it is also well known that children need a male and female reference. it is therefore unacceptable that encouraging same-sex unions and disempowering marriage means fighting to protect children from violence.
in writing. the report by mrs gröner and the amendments to it, which stress the need for a more effective fight against violence against women and children, certainly put us in a favourable position and we shall vote in favour of it. mr president, we would like to stress that the problem cannot be tackled solely in terms of financial resources for projects to combat this terrible phenomenon, but that it is necessary to spread a culture of respect for the weakest sections of society. this can only be achieved through a constant and effective information campaign and through internet regulation, which protects children from the risk of pedophilic violence and pornography transmitted through sites, which without limits and controls, disseminate violent messages and images. in this context, i have submitted a written statement (39/2006) to illustrate a new system, based on a differentiated childkey sim, which is suitable for protecting minors using the internet and mobile telephony because it allows providers to identify whether the user is a minor or an adult and to filter calls, blocking anonymous or unwanted ones.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss with you the social future of europe. it is clear that this is a very important issue for the citizens. the heads of state or government of the european union have repeatedly reaffirmed their commitment to european values and to the development of the european social model. a european model of society, able to combine economic growth, high employment and social cohesion, provides a sustainable basis for finding answers to the challenges of globalisation and ageing. the european social model must also be constantly renewed. we must increase the capacity of citizens to adapt to change. we must support europe's competitiveness and employment development and also fight poverty and exclusion. we must ensure the long-term sustainability and adequacy of social protection systems. these objectives can be mutually supportive. the relentless implementation of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs is essential for the future of a social europe. the preservation of european welfare societies requires greater competitiveness, higher employment rates and better productivity at work. one of the objectives of the finnish presidency is to strengthen the foundations for economic growth in europe. we expect the commission to issue a communication in the coming weeks on the demographic changes in europe. these issues were discussed by eu ministers for employment, social affairs and health at their informal meeting in helsinki in july. one of the presidency's conclusions from the discussions was that the change in the age structure of the population is not only a challenge but also a demonstration of the effectiveness of the european welfare model. large groups of people have the potential to live longer and healthier lives. while the conclusions may be less positive in terms of growth potential and fiscal sustainability, a long-term and proactive reform policy is essential. the social dialogue is an essential part of the european social model. the european council welcomed the progress made in the implementation of the lisbon strategy and the commission's new strategy for growth and jobs. the social summit is intended to continue the debate on the management of structural change in europe. a balance between flexibility and safety must be sought and a strong investment in know-how must be made. by creating better opportunities for men and women to reconcile work and family life, we are also creating better responses for europe to the challenges of globalisation and ageing. the reconciliation of work and family life is also an essential element in the implementation of the lisbon strategy. this was underlined by the european council in spring 2006 when it adopted the european pact for gender equality. the union is a key global actor with the objective of promoting democracy, human rights and sustainable development. the commission has just published a communication on decent work. cooperation between the eu and the international labour organisation (ilo) is of great importance in this respect. promoting decent work globally also increases labour productivity in less developed countries. finland's presidency aims to strengthen the european union's ability to adapt to the pressures of global competition. improving europe's competitiveness is about preserving european welfare societies. europe can be both competitive and socially strong, but this requires our continuing efforts and our willingness to change. as prime minister vanhanen said here in the european parliament in july, we must also take seriously the fear that europeans feel about global competition. shared values and social justice play a key role in alleviating these fears.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr silvio peneda and mr de ross for their report on the european social model for the future. it is a useful and stimulating contribution to the discussions launched at the european council in hampton court in october 2005. above all, it reiterates the importance of a social europe and the need to preserve and develop the european social model. ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the european social model can be complex, and we can approach this model from a number of angles. i think that the parliament's report, as it is drafted, is comprehensive in its approach and sets out the basic and main lines. let me just highlight a few things. the first, as the report itself says, is that the european social model is built on a set of values. the technical implementation of these values may of course be different. when we talk about values, we are talking about something worthwhile, i.e. when we are convinced that values are at the heart of the european social model, we are also saying that we are willing to make a great effort to preserve and develop these values. when we talk about the european social model, we use adjectives, and one of them is european. i think it is clear that the european social model has its basis in european integration. without european integration, it would have no hope of making its mark in the global world, no matter which nation state it was. for this reason, european integration is the constitutive essence of the european social model and, on the other hand, the european social model is one of the constitutive essences of european integration. because european integration is a complex concept from a geographical point of view, we can have a lot of different debates, but in principle, where there is a european social model, there are the limits of european integration. it's where the set of values that have been adopted by individual member states is. of course, there are others who can deeply and seriously subscribe to this set of values, and this is certainly a question that will be much and very lively discussed. but these are, in my view, the basic elements and the basic meaning for which the debate now taking place in parliament is so important. i fully share the view expressed by the rapporteur that social policy or social policies should not be seen as an expense but as a positive active factor in creating jobs, promoting growth and strengthening social cohesion. europe cannot be competitive without being socially strong. it cannot be competitive without its social policy. it is a mistake to think that by rejecting this basic idea, we will gain some amazing competitive advantage. this view is very clearly expressed in my judgment and i am very pleased to confirm it. i am also pleased that the european parliament and the commission agree on many points, such as the assessment of the situation. europe must reform its policies if it is to preserve its values. the status quo is not the solution, the status quo is always a loss in the long run. we must also remember that in addition to an innovative and open europe, we have a europe with some 20 million unemployed. the situation on the labour market is gradually improving and the current figures speak of 18 million unemployed, an improvement of 2 million, which is not insignificant. we have a europe with poverty, we have a europe with child poverty, we have a europe with stagnant growth and a europe with too high a level of social exclusion. the challenges to be faced, such as an ageing population that threatens the financial viability of our social systems, globalisation, which is a source of concern mainly for countries with high unemployment rates, and which at the same time confirms the need to embark on structural reform if the european union is to remain active and economically strong. i thank the european parliament for its proposals, which i would sum up in one word: modernising and perhaps improving. we need to modernize to maintain quality education and health systems, to ensure that everyone has a satisfying job and an acceptable pension. both the commission and the member states have embarked on modernisation and reforms under the renewed lisbon strategy. i thank the rapporteurs for having stressed the importance of balancing the economic dimension with the employment and social protection dimension. while member states are striving to modernise, the european union has a set of individual instruments to help them do so. these are legislation that promotes economic change while setting standards to protect our values and quality of life, the power to oversee the application of community law and, finally, the budget, which is essential to promoting the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the union. most of the proposals contained in the report are reflected in some form in the commission's current activities. firstly, in the field of demographic change, which will be covered by the follow-up communication to the green paper on demography which i would like to present in october, then in the field of flex-security, which the commission has started negotiating with the interested parties and which should lead to the adoption of common principles by the end of 2007, and in the field of services of general interest, which will be covered by a communication which the commission will draw up by the end of this year on the basis of a report from the european parliament. also, in the follow-up to the commission communication 'a citizens' agenda for results for europe' of may 2006, in which the commission committed itself to carrying out a thorough assessment of the reality of european society in 2007 and launching a programme focusing on access to rights and solidarity, it is also exploring the possibility of establishing a list of rights of the european citizen. finally, let me thank the rapporteurs once again for this forward-looking report which presents useful suggestions. the commission will respond to them in the coming months through the main initiatives i have mentioned. ladies and gentlemen, let me take you back to the very beginning. the european social model is based on the conviction that political democracy, economic efficiency, economic performance and solidarity can be linked.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months, in the debate on the process of increasing political integration in europe, we have often said that europe must define its project, its purpose, its indispensable role: the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to achieve the objectives of the single act. but today we must also relaunch the social dimension, alongside growth, knowledge, the objectives we always declare, together with research into what europe should become, in order to be able to tell the european citizens clearly whether the future of europe, and not just its past history and that of the 20th century which we all know and have lived, will still have this priority, this distinctive sign which has characterized the different models and the different systems in the various member states. it is at european level that this leap is necessary: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. of course, i would like to say this to those who fear that brussels will decide everything: the how is a single model. it is clear, it is obvious, it is indisputable that the responsibility for social policy lies with the member states and it is at national level that the choices will have to be made as to the quantity and quality of our income to be allocated to social systems, whether more welfare or more education or more repair. these are national choices, there is no doubt, i too support my country deciding what kind of social state it wants to be, but i also believe that a common approach at european level is necessary on certain fundamental rights to be safeguarded, on social rights which, as i would remind my colleagues, we have included in the rights section of our draft constitution. we must start from here, from a shared approach which defines some guidelines, precisely because national social systems are confronted with the worst of challenges: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. we want competitiveness and social cohesion to go hand in hand, to be two sides of the same coin for the integral development of a society. that is why i think today's debate is important, that is why i think it should be on the european agenda, even if some people may question it because it is only an own-initiative report on this subject. it is not enough to talk about institutional models, it is not enough to talk about what governance is necessary, it is indispensable, to also discuss the competitive model for our free economy. the citizens also want to know this, when they choose the political response, when they agree or disagree with the economic choices we will be asking for in terms of increased employment or otherwise, they will ask whether these social rights are still a distinctive feature of all the welfare systems that the various countries will implement.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the european social model must be accepted by all, at least in principle. who can object to a common set of values, to peace, social justice, freedom, equality, etc.? there are many fine principles and guidelines in eu policy, but there is a harsh reality in everyday life. short-term profit-seeking and often reckless exploitation, competition, etc. many times we see or ignore the enrichment of a few and the increasing poverty of a growing population. the most serious social problems - extreme poverty, discrimination against immigrants, the plight of the longterm unemployed - are only hinted at in the document. inequality and injustice are not shown with the necessary sharpness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if the so-called harmonisation in the economy is taken for granted, then the eu would also have to say yes to harmonisation in the social field from the harmonisation of taxes to the debate on minimum income, basic income, citizens' wages and in particular the pension system. justice can only be a valid principle in the eu if european law fully protects the weakest members of society!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, social security systems appear to be in increasing difficulty. the recurring economic crises and demographic changes, the processes of immigration, force us to rethink the european social model, also because the richest and most developed areas of the world live side by side with others marked by poverty and pre-industrial development, so we are looking for a model capable of guiding development and wealth to the benefit of many. what are its features? at the heart of the relationship between the individual, society and the state, there must be the concept of subsidiarity, whereby all european citizens can express their freedoms guaranteed by non-oppressive institutions. social solidarity must be revived so that the progress of society and the increase of wealth become processes governed by respect for the dignity of each individual and by the help that social groups can offer to people in difficulty. it is not based on the exclusive role of the public institution or on the mechanisms of market self-regulation, but on a threefold solidarity: individual solidarity by spreading positive values among people; solidarity of self-organised social groups in social networks; institutional solidarity with a few essential and universally shared rules, for a state capable of harnessing all the energies of society. european enterprises are also part of this design, because full employment is a key element of the social model, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises as the backbone of a system combining the capacity for economic enterprise with the solidity of the social fabric, towards a new european social model that in the diversity of forms and organizational systems achieves the well-being of all.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to take part in this very intensive debate on the european social model from a variety of perspectives. i think i can sum up my view by saying that the voices that rejected the european social model were in a very significant minority in this debate, and that the voices that considered the european social model to be an essential part of our lives were predominant. that is also the general view of the commission. let me return, ladies and gentlemen, to some of the elements which i consider to be of particular importance as they have been raised in the debate, in order to emphasize what i consider to be the most essential at the moment. i think it is necessary to realize that the european union itself is a very original product, a very original political work, which can be very difficult to describe in the conventional words and terms that we know from political science. it is not a description of an international treaty, nor is it a description of the ordinary concepts of political science. the same is true of the european social model, it is far more complex than can be contained in a completely simple thematic description. i would therefore like to express my appreciation to the two rapporteurs who have tabled a text which, in my view, deals with this difficulty in an extremely profound way. i think that another important line in the debate, which was more than profound, is the awareness that the european social model is not a static entity and that it is generally based on active participation and that it is, as has been said here, in several cases based on work, because work, ladies and gentlemen, is more than an occupation, it also has a certain ethical character and the ethics of activity, the ethics of solidarity is one of the foundations and in the discussion this was clear. ladies and gentlemen, i shall be interested to see what you come up with in your vote, and as i have already indicated, many of the commission's approaches and positions that have been developed are more or less in line with what is being discussed here. so ladies and gentlemen, distinguished reporters, thank you for the opportunity to participate in this discussion.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the council and commission statements on the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme: national allocation plans (2008-2012).
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. we are very critical of what may be a mere buying and selling of the right to pollute, to the detriment of the underdeveloped countries, which is even ineffective, as we have heard, in actually reducing emissions. we must be very clear, especially on the eve of a conference between the parties, the 13th on climate, which will be held in nairobi, symbolically in africa. we must not make a market out of pollution but promote new environmental development through cooperation policies which must enable the richer countries to produce much less polluting products and the poorer countries to be helped to develop by giving them access to new environmental technologies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on equal opportunities has had a passionate debate on the strategy for mental health. it is difficult to sum up the richness of this report in the short time i have, but i am pleased to highlight the unanimous vote, a vote which, in the extreme summary, suggests three fundamental issues. the first question: strong support for the proposal to deinstitutionalize psychiatric services; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step forward. question number two: a strong emphasis on the different modulations in relation to the need for prevention and the active involvement of users and territorial services at all levels in the overall strategy, which the theme of prevention must incorporate even more strongly. question number three: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include women and men. we affirm the need for the proposed measures to include a systematic search for specific studies on women, since phenomena such as eating disorders, neurovegetative diseases, schizophrenia, depression, suicides have not been studied in the gender dimension so far, and this makes the progress achieved in prevention and treatment less relevant than it should be. let's move on, though. good luck.
i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a report on the situation in the european union, which is a very important one, and i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a report on the situation in the european union, which is a very important one. a year ago a group of so-called 'madmen' came here to strasbourg, arriving by bus from rome with their workers and families. they had come to tell us about their italian experience: a law named after a psychiatrist, franco basaglia, who unfortunately is no longer with us, who fought with them, with the "crazy", for the dignity of patients, closed the asylums and built an alternative care on the reintegration territories for which, today, in italy it is better. these 'madmen' have come to ask us to make it happen in europe too, because then they would feel more like citizens of this europe in which they have all too often been, and still are, discriminated against and deprived of rights. today, with this report, we are beginning to respond to this need and we are saying to them: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause) i would like to thank
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the oral question to the commission by mr giuseppe gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on european contract law (o-0074/2006 - b6-0326/2006) is hereby taken to the next item on the agenda.
member of the commission. mr president, the fact that this is a late night debate does not mean that we do not place great importance on this issue. the lateness of the hour is of no relevance here. we take note of, and indeed, we take into serious consideration parliament’s position on this issue. i regret that we still cannot give a more definite position as to how we will proceed or be more specific, but we are now in the process of clarifying and determining what is to be done next and the commission’s position on this. as i said earlier, we have parliament’s position. my two colleagues and i will hold a debate on a joint paper within the commission over the next few weeks and then we will consult with the council. so, to take an optimistic view, i expect we will have a clearer picture by the end of this year. we will not be wasting any time, because we will know how to proceed by the time we finish the first part, which is the consumer acquis, so there will be no gap there. once again, i can assure you that we will keep you informed of developments and discuss our future approach with you, once we have formulated it.
i have received a motion for a resolution. under article 108 (5) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the oral question to the council by mr joost lagendijk and mrs gisela kallenbach, on behalf of the green group, mr hannes swoboda and mr jan marinus wiersma, on behalf of the pse group, mrs doris pack, on behalf of the ppe-de group, mrs elizabeth lynne, mrs sarah ludford and mr jelko kacin, on behalf of the alde group, on the state of preparation of the eu for its future role in kosovo (o-0082/2006 - b6-0426/2006).
i would point out that the services confirmed that, in any event, before the council's reply, it is the authors of the question who submit the question they have formulated to carry out the question.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement with the republic of albania should be considered with great care and with great optimism. i would like to announce the favourable vote of the union for a europe of nations group and the warm appreciation of the italian delegation to the national alliance. it is well known that italy is watching with attention, interest and favour the progress of the young republic of albania, especially after the clear and reassuring victory of president berisha. this agreement promotes ever stronger and more extensive contractual relations between albania and the european union, will certainly promote the political, economic and institutional stability of that country, will promote albania's transition to a full-fledged pluralistic democracy, respectful of the rule of law and a market economy. the main benefits of the agreement are the creation of a free trade area, a serious commitment to cooperation in areas of common interest and, above all, the promotion of a more stable and reassuring legal environment for foreign investors. it is well known that in the previous period between 1997 and 2005 a suffocating and omnipresent presence of a political-economic power contradicted the market economy, it has imprisoned the social fabric where tolerance and connivance have been mixed with corrupt and sometimes mafia methods. much more needs to be done and albania has done much more, for example in stopping and prosecuting the divers and in stopping the trafficking of human beings between albania and italy. we must continue to fight corruption and organised crime. albania must focus a lot on infrastructure, transport and tourism, but the commission must also do more, it must give more resources, especially for transport and for corridor 8, since it is not useless to recall the importance of infrastructure networks as a necessary condition for development and cohesion, they allow potential accessibility between all its parts, there is the possibility for each area to exploit its resources, transform and exchange its products.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new socialist group, which supports this motion for a resolution. for years in italy, the image of albania has been linked to the boats and motorboats full of desperate men and women who, driven by misery and grief, reached the adriatic coast in search of a future impossible at home. in 1995, i participated in an international volunteer and solidarity camp, in the most critical and difficult period, and i still have the blinking and distrustful eyes of the people in my mind. today i hear that albania is changing, i had the opportunity to visit the country in recent months and i found an extraordinary willingness to redeem; i met so many young students at the university of tirana who, first of all, are in love with their country. but above all, the new generations also have a clear desire for europe, a need, a desire and a conviction to belong to a larger family, to bring an end to a historical phase in which albania has been isolated from europe and the world. i believe that albania, the country of the eagles, is an organic part of europe, and not just geographically, and that it is our precise duty to continue to promote the democratic construction under way and to implement more generally concrete interaction and cooperation with the community institutions.
mr president, commission representatives, council representatives and honourable members, the council's decision on the agreement between the european union and albania is a very positive step. i welcome the fact that the agreement will open up a more direct political relationship with albania, with a view to establishing a free trade area, the free movement of workers, capital and services, freedom of establishment and the prospect of a lasting stabilisation of the area of south-eastern europe as an area of peace, democracy and security. this agreement calls on albania to bring its legislation closer to that of the european union, not only in areas such as the internal market but also in the areas of justice, security and respect for rights. it is precisely because of the conclusion of this agreement that albania has made significant progress and is, in my view, today more bound to overcome the many problems that persist in that country with regard to electoral laws, media freedom and corruption and organised crime. for us, this is part of a broader vision, first of all the relaunch of a euro-adriatic strategy which also includes the resumption of infrastructure projects such as corridor 8 and more generally to pursue the objective, the historic mission, of enlargement of the european union. it is strategic that the project of reuniting the continent, in accordance with the principles of democracy, peace and development, should include albania and the balkans as protagonists of the new europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted in favour of the report on the stabilisation agreement between the european union and albania presented by mr ilves and we believe that only further integration, until albania's urgent accession to the european union, is the best answer to the problems of the balkans and of course also of albania. the events that shook the balkans in the 1990s should teach us that nation-state selfishness is never part of the solution. after the kosovo issue, the cham issue is the last major national issue concerning the albanian-speaking peoples, and on the cham issue, as in the case of kosovo, we radicals are among the first to denounce in this house the violations of the rights of that people. this agreement lays the foundations for a dialogue on the issue of cultural rights and the restitution of property of the cham living in greece which is not based solely on the logic of confronting opposing egoisms but on the involvement of europe and the international institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report on the recognition of the importance of mental illness in europe, drawn up by my friend mr john bowis, who alone ensures that this important subject will be dealt with in the best possible way. the fame of mr john bowis has spread throughout europe, from italy, specifically from the town of salsomaggiore (the town where miss italy is elected), an admirer of his named moggi silvana is here in the gallery because she wanted to be present when her great idol john bowis was discussing his very important proposal, so that everyone in europe is treated in the best possible way even when we have the misfortune of having mental illnesses and not just physical illnesses.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how many intellectual inaccuracies and dishonesty in many of the august reports on the crisis in the middle east and in the statements of so many politicians! the attacker was often confused with the attacked and it was almost never specified that the real reason for the provocation unleashed by hezbollah with the launching of missiles towards israel and the kidnapping of two of its soldiers, is what was stated several times by the president of iran: "the wiping of israel from the map". if this is the aim of certain governments and the terrorist fundamentalism they are fuelling, then we must have the courage and the loyalty to say that europe's first duty is to support and defend the existence of the state of israel and its people, and to demand recognition of it even from those who, out of myopic folly, continue to deny it. only under these conditions and by returning to the road map can we have a recognised, free and secure palestinian state and peace in the middle east. these are the objectives which we must achieve by all possible efforts and convergences, but the objectives of hezbollah, which wants to destroy the democratic state recognised by the international community and a member of the un, are different. hezbollah is a religious ideological movement represented, albeit in a minority, in the parliament of a neighbouring state, but also has an autonomous armed organisation outside the state structure and is supplied with arms and money by two other states in the region, both of which have the primary purpose of destroying israel. how can one be equally close to these two contenders, so opposite and different in their aims? the first is to defend the legitimate survival of the democratic state, the second is to be the armed arm of the struggle against democracy and the west! we express our agreement with the unifil force which will have to ensure that disarmament is verified and that the lebanese legal government is supported, and we hope that the lebanese authorities will not fall into the ambiguities of the past few weeks. the only interlocutors for unifil must be the israeli and lebanese governments. the union, which is finally moving together, must ensure that un resolutions are respected and devote all its efforts to humanitarian aid, to re-establishing dialogue and to fostering a culture of mutual respect. i still believe that if israel were part of the union, peace in the middle east would be more secure and i renew here today my call to the council to declare that the embassies of the countries of the union throughout the world will from now on recognize israeli citizens as european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my support for the union's initiative in the lebanese affair, which is the resumption of a central role in the middle east, as we have not seen for a long time, and of course also coincides with the failure of the unilateral initiatives of others. but everything will depend on the results and we must be aware that the military mission and the aid for reconstruction are not an end point but a starting point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is what our debate in parliament should be focused on. the context will be that of the un security council, but the initiative will inevitably have to come from here, from europe, from the european union, in conjunction with the united states, with the arab league, but with a central initiative from us. we must discuss the implications of this initiative. the experience of the last few years and months has taught us that unilateralism alone does not lead anywhere, that attempting to solve the problems of the middle east piece by piece does not lead anywhere. we must go beyond the road map, beyond the individual specific resolutions of the security council on iraq or lebanon, and understand that the time is ripe for an all-inclusive approach, capable of bringing together somehow all the interested states in the region around the table for a formal discussion on all the open issues, crisis points or elements of cooperation. we in europe should know something about this, because 30 years ago in helsinki we succeeded in laying the foundations for the transformation which astonished the world a few years later. such a solution would be a solution for all: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and i would like to thank the commission for its work in this area.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, as you have said, the success of the ceasefire is already an important achievement in a war which in a few weeks caused a great many casualties, destruction of infrastructure and the environment, and which threatened to spread throughout the region. this first result was the result of a european initiative in close cooperation with the united nations. let me remind you of the active role played by my country, italy, but also by the finnish presidency and by france, which will be leading unifil at this stage. the challenge is much more difficult, however, and involves a political and diplomatic effort, as well as a military effort, by the whole of europe, which for the first time could demonstrate a clear political will and determination to play a constructive role in the mediterranean and the middle east by equipping itself with the necessary instruments. it is a question of supporting lebanon in the difficult process of independence and sovereignty by continuing the democratic process which had given rise to so much hope during the spring in beirut. the lebanese army must regain control of all the territory, including the south, it must exercise the monopoly of force vis-à-vis hezbollah which has meanwhile built a parallel power. this result requires the responsibility of all, starting with syria, which has a role to play in the region, just as israel must convince itself to abandon the idea of the indiscriminate use of force because this is not the way to ensure its security. it has also been said that the palestinian question is at the heart of the middle east. the task of europe is to assume fully the responsibility which all the parties to the conflict now recognize: support the difficult internal process of the palestinians in forming a new government that will allow them to break out of isolation and to obtain the resources that israel must return to them. it could be the beginning of a new climate between the parties, but first of all we must stop the spiral of violence. the years that have passed have shown us that the two countries cannot do it alone, the international community must be present, and so the mission that is in lebanon today, which we can deploy to gaza and the west bank tomorrow, could be the beginning of the resumption of that agreement in the perspective, as the president has reminded us, of an international conference leading to a stable and lasting solution for the whole area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the signal given by a foreign minister of a country which is a founding member of the european union, by the foreign minister of my country who went for a walk with a leading member of hezbollah, is not a positive signal from europe to the citizens, to those who seriously want peace, to those who want to contribute to the solution of the very serious problems in this area and especially to a martyr country like lebanon, poor lebanon. france has the undeniable merit of having immediately brought the most important issue to the table, by asking that the un mandate include an embargo on the entry of arms into lebanon from all borders, and therefore first of all from syria. however, even after the words of commissioner walder, who is also credited with speaking very clearly about the need and the right of lebanon to return to being independent and therefore not dependent on syria, it must be criticised that he did not speak clearly on such fundamental issues. we want to know, europe must know: what are we going to do with this mission, what are the tasks, what are the means we will have? if someone tells us, for example, that disarming hezbollah will mean transferring these noble guerrillas to the lebanese army, we will reply that this is not the solution to the problem and above all it does not correspond to the objectives which europe must pursue, and with it also the member countries participating in the unifil mission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. on this fundamental point we must have the courage to speak out clearly and to demand strongly, and europe must do so, adequate guarantees, because our soldiers are there and europe's role is there, of course.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a pacifist i have never thought that peace can be built by arms, so i am not shouting enthusiasm for the mission in lebanon, but i realistically accept that we are facing a damage-reduction intervention, which is the only possibility of obtaining israel's withdrawal from lebanon. however, the more neutral the peacekeeping force is, the more credible it will be. that is why it is necessary that italy, as well as the other nations involved in the unifil mission, immediately break all military assistance agreements with israel, such as the one italy concluded two years ago. if the objective is lasting peace, the military is not enough, i ask that the european union organize the presence on the border between lebanon and israel of civilian peace-keeping forces, with a mandate and management separate from the military mission. the call already made by humanitarian organisations for a un-led commission of inquiry into possible war crimes committed by israel against civilians, including the use of cluster bombs and the bombing of social infrastructure, should be supported. i share the council's view that there will be no lasting peace in the middle east without respect for the rights of the palestinian people, and for this reason the european union should formally propose the deployment of an intervention force also between palestine and israel and demand that it respect all un resolutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the president of the council and commissioner farrero waldner for all the information they have given us. i do not hide, mr president, my frustration as a member of this parliament in having to see once again that it is impossible for the european union to move quickly, with determination, with the authority that would be its due in such circumstances. in the mediterranean region we have embarked on a partnership policy which is not only economic, not only commercial, but also political. i agree with your line and the most decisive role you have played. italy and france have taken an important initiative: the european union has not yet established its own diplomatic and military capability, but there is ample room for manoeuvre to play a leading role in many of the developments in the region. the european union must be much more decisive in finding a solution for the stability of the region and must take action to help the lebanese democratic authority to strengthen its institutional structure, the organization of the state. for true sovereignty and independence, it must provide humanitarian aid and the means, it must guarantee a qualified, very qualified diplomatic presence of our institutions in lebanon, it must activate the association agreements with lebanon, the association agreement with syria. in this connection, the council should tell us why the agreement with syria has not yet been signed, since we consider syria's role in the region to be very important. it is good that the european parliament also takes the appropriate initiatives to make the dialogue between the european union and lebanon a reality. the problem of the many refugees in lebanon, who have been unresolved for many years, are stateless, live in emergency conditions and constitute a potentially dangerous reserve for destabilizing actions. they must be given a political answer finally, i would like to mention the conference proposed by the council: the peace conference is an important moment which must be seized at the right time and the european parliament will certainly give it its support.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, unilateralism has long since shown its limits. the union has finally taken the initiative and promoted a courageous intervention together with the united nations, thus allowing us to gain some time to settle the conflict. the scenario is the whole of the middle east, of course, but the priority remains the relationship between israel and palestine, and that is where we must start. the union has demonstrated the validity of the approach based on positive interaction between different cultures, the primacy of politics and the refusal to use force, these are the values that have led us to live for two generations without war in europe. the european union can and must promote the same principles, the same transparent and balanced multipolar approach, and conflict prevention through political dialogue throughout the world. for all these reasons, i am proud to be a european and even more proud to be an italian, given the role my country has played in this context.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has finally made its voice heard and has been able, albeit with some delay and not a few difficulties, to play an active and leading role in the middle east crisis. but this is only the first step in a long process which must lead the european union, together with the un, the united states and the arab league, to the stabilization of an area from which all the dangers to world security arise. the unifil mission is a tool, the ultimate goal must be the birth of a sovereign lebanon free from foreign influence, including through hezbollah. we ask the council and the commission: what is the disarmament of the armed militia that attacked israel? it should be remembered that this parliament, when it said last year that there was irrefutable evidence of terrorist activity by hezbollah, urged the council by a very large majority of its members to take all the necessary measures to put an end to the group's activities. in this respect, syria is called upon to play an active role without hesitation, contributing to the blocking of the flow of arms to terrorists. in the context of the protection of human rights, the unifil soldiers, who deserve our solidarity and support, must also be entrusted with the task of protecting the lebanese christian community, without any fault between two opposing parties. we must not only pursue the lebanese objective, but also a broader objective: the solution to the israeli-palestinian crisis, "two peoples, two states", this is the solution designed to cut the grass under the feet of terrorism and islamic fundamentalism. to achieve this we need a europe that plays a leading role, but how can we have a union that brings peace without a constitution that gives the necessary powers to those who are to carry out this action? the debate on the constitution is therefore back in the spotlight, and it is not a matter for lawyers, it is the central question, namely how to export the most important achievement of 50 years of europe beyond our borders: peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i just wanted to announce that at the end of the meeting with the un secretary-general, kofi annan, the israeli prime minister announced that the israeli air-sea blockade of lebanon will be lifted from 5 p.m. tomorrow.
the current conflict in lebanon puts on the table of the international community, five years to the day after 11 september 2001, the possibility of reviewing and correcting the clearly inappropriate approach to resolving the friction between the so-called 'western world' and the 'islamic world'. for five years now, the ongoing conflicts (gaza, lebanon, iraq, afghanistan) and the most serious diplomatic tensions (attacks, the iranian issue, etc.) have all been revolving around the same knot and cannot therefore be eradicated exclusively by military missions, more or less legitimate, created ad hoc each time with different names. we must now seize the opportunity to create a genuine multilateral force, involving and committed to the participation of all the parties concerned, with the objective of resolving the problem at the root of each of these conflicts, namely the ideological clash between two different cultural blocs. we must seek and find as soon as possible a forum for dialogue, an opening which we, as 'democratic' countries, have the duty to pursue, which deals with the most divergent and urgent issues, from political and religious ideology to the economic system. i hope that the eu will not miss the opportunity to promote this dialogue and to become its promoter at international level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the answer is that the presidency does not intend to take any positive action on the matter raised?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a comprehensive report, approved by a large majority in the committee on foreign affairs, must be voted on by this house. i am aware of and also accept some of the remarks made by the socialist group, since we have tabled (as the socialist group is well aware) an amendment to fill in a possible gap in the report, namely the reference to the one china policy (exclusion of taiwan independence). the choice thus makes it possible to reach an overall agreement, a sign of relaxation and attention also to the demands coming from the socialist group. i think the report is complete, it can be examined and it is also in line with the wishes of several parliamentary groups to examine it and support it. i think it is right to debate this evening and to vote tomorrow. (applause) i would like to thank
i am glad that the commissioner has taken the opportunity to make a statement on the belder report, which is a comprehensive report, which deals with all the problems of relations between the european union and china and which is based on the important debate in the committee on foreign affairs, for which i thank mr brok, who has dealt with the subject in depth. we hope that there will be broad agreement on this report, and we therefore call on the socialist group to vote in favour of it, also because we are committed to supporting the one-china policy, which is the basis for respecting a peaceful solution to the taiwan question through constructive dialogue. the report certainly does not see china as an enemy of europe, but on the contrary as a very important partner in trade and industry, and many european companies find in china a welcome that allows them to discover new markets. but to improve relations between the european union and beijing and to proceed with mutual benefit, certain rules must be established and respected, as there are fundamental values concerning the individual which, when violated, can make cooperation between the european union and china less positive. we are concerned about the undemocratic choices of the chinese communist party, the violation of human and trade union rights, the freedom of minorities, freedom of information, the question of tibet. the parliamentary group, which is following this issue closely, has put forward and passed several amendments emphasizing the issue of religious freedom: we are concerned about the appointment of bishops by the communist party, it is as if the vatican were appointing generals in the chinese army, it is incomprehensible, it is the end of the freedom of so many chinese citizens. we are also concerned about the rules governing economic and commercial relations, and we are calling on the council and the commission to take a stand to protect european and other countries in europe's neighbourhood, particularly in the textile and footwear sectors. i am sorry that the finnish presidency is not here, as far as the protection of human rights is concerned. for all these reasons we shall vote in favour of the belder report, supporting certain amendments which also concern environmental matters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that in recent years the european union has become china's second largest trading partner, so it is essential to clarify the existing relations between our continent and china in order to better face the global challenges ahead, although in my view there are still too many critical points to highlight. china, although a member of the wto, has often shown that it does not respect the rules shared by other trading partners. as we have all too often pointed out, china is placing counterfeit goods on european markets, or goods which do not comply with eu rules, nor with quality and safety standards. china does not adequately respect the trips agreements on the protection of intellectual property rights and inventions and does not promote market access for foreign partners. the trade agreements in the footwear, textiles and clothing sectors must also be reviewed as a matter of urgency, as unacceptable imbalances remain. what is even more worrying are the problems of human rights, particularly those of women, girls and children, the absence in many cases of minimum standards of safety and health on the work logo and even the existence of work camps. unfortunately, these are all well-known issues, but it is time to identify solutions and, above all, concrete means to deal more effectively with unfair competition and social and environmental dumping by china. in conclusion, it is worth hoping that the finnish presidency, also at the next eu-china summit in a few days' time, will finally be able to promote the real interests of european citizens, consumers and producers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when huge business or financial interests are at stake, lobbying activities are very often seen and are seen to support these interests also in the political arena, also in the parliamentary arena (not only this evening, to be honest, but perhaps we have seen this kind of game this evening). we share the belder report because we believe that europe should not be afraid to ask the chinese giant, which is so powerful economically, for adequate answers on the various issues mentioned. but i would like the commission, too, to speak of the defence of human rights, and not to do so in the same way as when the old european offices in all the countries were filled with style clauses, things that were supposed to say: today we have to talk about tibet, just to look good and show that we care. after hearing here and being moved by the words of a high spiritual authority like the dalai lama, i think, and i say this with great generosity, that the responses we are giving to the drama of tibet, to the drama of a holocaust, to the cultural genocide of a people, are very tenuous and essentially ineffective. in the economic and monetary field, i am beyond the belder report and the criticism that in the monetary field it is time to call for a rather rapid, albeit gradual, revalorization of the renminbi if we are to defend our economies from the chinese onslaught. how is it possible that, even though we know that 70% of the counterfeit goods circulating in our countries are of chinese origin, we still have to deal with issues such as the functioning of chinese courts, the answers, the fact that there is a court here that gives us reason to turn to, in short we have to ask china to completely revise its system to meet the needs of democracy and development, etc. finally, let me remind you of the issue of religious freedom: it 's a fundamental theme: we have seen christians, catholics, protestants, but also members of the christian-protestant community, in front of our parliament, in front of the falung gong, that is, human beings who believe in their own ideas, in their own philosophy, and who are treated as criminals, tortured, imprisoned and probably also have their parts taken from them. this is a disgrace, the trafficking of organs by a country with which we continue to trade!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, congratulations to mr belder, it would have been a real pity if the very bizarre request for a postponement had been accepted, we have the opportunity to express our views just a few days before the summit. i think the request is a bit skewed by the idea that the debate on human rights and the necessary economic relationship with china can be separated, in fact it is the same thing: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say to the commissioner - and i would also like to say to the council, which is unfortunately not here - that the president has the light behind him, so he could be exercising himself in a chinese shadow exercise. freedom on the net. it's definitely a chinese problem, but it's also true that the technologies to oppress chinese citizens online are american and european. secondly: europol, it seems that the europol board of directors would even like to start negotiations to conclude a cooperation agreement with the chinese. that we're working with the chinese police is the ultimate contradiction. the third issue, which is also a campaign of the transnational radical party, is about the death penalty: the european union must also raise the question of a universal moratorium on executions at the forthcoming session of the un general assembly. it is all right to say these things to china, but we must try to deal with them ourselves as europe.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the current crisis. how do the many brands that exist today protect fisheries and allow us to say that fisheries are sustainable? the report states that the european union must address the issue of curbing the proliferation of different eco-labels and ensure the establishment of a community system based on the same principles and basic requirements. we share this choice, but it must be stressed first of all that the implementation of an ecological quality system has a strong impact on the production of the entire chain: the first step is to initiate and strengthen the dialogue with the operators in the sector in order to carefully assess the consequences for the sector of the choices to be made for this certification system. secondly, the specificities and peculiarities of the coast where the system will be applied must be borne in mind: the rules and regulations will therefore have to be adapted to the realities of the local ecological, environmental and socioeconomic system. thirdly, the application of the mark must be supported by socioeconomic promotion measures aimed at the operators in the supply chain in order to encourage them to enter the voluntary system and by information measures aimed at consumers. finally, attention must be paid to the fact that the implementation of an ecological quality label for fisheries products must be perfectly integrated with the existing recognised quality systems, in order to avoid overlaps and contradictions between the regulations, to avoid confusion among consumers, to create synergies between the systems and to save resources.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, as you know, the european court has stated that the council and the commission decision on the transfer of pnr data to the united states bureau of customs and border protection serves the purpose of protection of public security and concerns public activities in the area of criminal law. therefore, these activities are excluded from the scope of the european data protection directive and article 95 of the european treaty, even when the data being processed was originally for the supply of commercial services. the situation in general concerning legal bases underlines the need for a single system of legal bases for justice, liberty and security issues. this is what i call the ‘communitarisation’ of the so-called third pillar; therefore, i called upon the council of ministers for justice and home affairs to ensure a clear legal framework for justice, freedom and security by favouring the use of the so-called passerelle clause, article 42. i know that the european parliament shares the commission’s point of view on this very important matter, which i will raise again during the informal council in tampere in a few days’ time. i believe that this new agreement under negotiation with the united states should have the same content and include the same level of safeguards regarding legal certainty for air carriers, respect for human rights, notably the right to privacy, and the purposes for which the pnr data may be used. in addition, it could integrate the current undertakings, as requested in the draft recommendation attached to the annulled commission decision, and which the united states currently implements. as you know, these undertakings provide for rules and procedures, which effectively restrict the use of pnr data by the united states authorities. in order not to endanger public security, all efforts should be made to ensure that this agreement replaces the current one at the time when it expires, by 30 september at the latest. the commission is doing its utmost to start negotiations with the united states as soon as possible. in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 24 of the eu treaty, negotiations are led by the council presidency, assisted by the commission. the negotiations should start tomorrow in brussels. a draft text has been transmitted to the united states authorities by the presidency, which, as i said, is leading the negotiations. i am aware of your request to the presidency to make the text of the draft agreement available to you. i am personally in favour and i can assure you that for its part the commission intends to fulfil its obligations under the framework agreement between our two institutions and therefore i will keep parliament informed throughout the negotiations. it is indeed my intention to report to parliament regularly on this issue and, as you probably know, i shall be participating in a meeting of the libe committee next week, on 12 september. finally, i want to recall that, should no new agreement be in place on 1 october, air carriers flying from europe to the united states risk legal complaints from citizens based on divergent national legislation on the transfer of pnr data to the united states. for that reason, it is extremely important to ensure legal certainty through an agreement concluded at european level as of 1 october, whilst continuing to ensure a high level of security and at the same time privacy protection for our citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament is excluded from the debate on an issue which is affecting all european citizens. the first paradox of the story is precisely this. my group strongly agrees with the points made by mrs in 't veld, in particular the need to move to a push system as opposed to a short-term agreement and the need to avoid direct transfer to the judicial authority as opposed to a medium-term agreement. i understand the need to use the agreement rejected by the court as a basis, also because the united states of america is asking even more from europe. but we must also consider the absurdity of some of the proposals contained in the agreement rejected by the court. i think of the 34 pieces of data that have to be transferred to the united states of america, when we know very well that the vast majority of these data are useless, and according to direct testimony from the american authorities only seven or eight of these data are used by them. the need to provide real protection, legal protection for passenger data, and the duty of the institutions to protect the data of european citizens, should also be considered. the systematic control of citizens in the name of the fight against terrorism represents an authoritarian distortion of the rule of law and paradoxically in this way we are helping to achieve the objectives of terrorism. the systematic control of citizens has the same authoritarian vocation as the secret prisons of the cia. yesterday bush finally thought of announcing to the world that he would no longer hide this evidence, and we hope that the european countries will also avoid being more realistic than the king. we must avoid taking the same position on this matter, we must avoid being more extreme than the usa in controlling citizens in the name of this false war on terrorism! (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i am quite pessimistic about the outcome of this agreement, and i support the rapporteur's comments in particular, but the problem is that we have given up our negotiating power as the european union and as the european commission: that's why we have to be pessimistic. we gave up our bargaining power four years ago when, for a year and a half, passenger data was transferred to the united states in total illegality. an agreement was made, which was later found to be illegal and in fact served merely to transpose that illegality and correct it in a very small part. we would in fact have enormous negotiating power, it is a question of deciding whether we, as europeans, want our law to be respected on our land, which is a principle of the rule of law. we are not going to be able to negotiate with the united states on this basis, but if we give up, then the united states is clearly in the position of saying: "well, if we don't make a deal in 30 days, we'll do as we please". the small detail is that they, if we want, can not do as they please. the reasoning of the man who says: "we risk blocking airline flights to the united states" is a completely false reasoning from a legal point of view, our privacy laws do not protect according to the nationality of the airline's flag carrier, they protect according to the country where the personal data is collected. the data collected for commercial purposes cannot be systematically used for security purposes, neither in the united states nor in europe, even if we wanted to use our data in this way! so if we start enforcing our own law, we'll have the power to negotiate a deal with the united states. such an agreement means that only data relevant to security should be transmitted and not data which is absolutely irrelevant as happened today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i certainly share mr sifunakis' views, but i also believe that what is said in the first paragraph about european identity must be weighed against the fact that european citizens already share the same mosaic of cultures, and that they do not understand the union's complex mechanisms of action, which are too often designed to regulate and harmonize. the cultural, natural and architectural heritage - it would perhaps be more appropriate to speak of architecture, landscape and historical and landscape assets, terms which together better define the integration to be sought in the synergy between natural and anthropic landscape - is certainly fundamental to spreading social, economic and environmental well-being, especially in those areas of our europe which present landscape fragility, but also the socioeconomic and demographic fabric. i would also like to see a more precise definition of the concept of small traditional communities, because the term 'traditional' is too generic and lends itself to a possible indiscriminate use of resources and commitments. rural communities are not only part of our collective memory, they are the cradle of values, the forge of social relations which are often much more balanced than those of urban communities, and they are absolutely essential for the preservation of culture and the environment. this cultural heritage is not only threatened, as the colleague warns, but in many parts of europe it is even at risk of functional survival: in addition to the instruments for the conservation and safeguarding of the territory and cultures, the union should, together with the states, provide for appropriate policies against rural depopulation, especially in the mountains, otherwise there is a risk of investing money to restore abandoned architectural configurations, to paint old houses that will remain uninhabited, to care for cobblestones that will not be trampled again.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the maastricht treaty the european union became a union of peoples, it acquired its own cultural identity in respect of regional and local differences which, in contrast to an ever-increasing cultural globalisation, constitute the real basic wealth of a common heritage. the island and rural areas are the cradle of this heritage, with their traditions, architecture, local craftsmanship, natural and landscape beauties. it is therefore a matter of priority to protect this enormous heritage, to develop a local development project aimed at activating and encouraging the valorisation of culture and environmental resources, to make them an instrument of growth for an economy that is currently in difficulty. this means first of all an overall improvement of the territory, in which - alongside the recovery and conservation of architecture, both from the monumental and landscape point of view - it is also necessary to consider the people who live and share the reality of small rural villages. this means combating rural exodus, encouraging the training of young people, recovering local crafts and traditional agricultural practices, giving new impetus to old trades and new professions, including by financing research and the use of new technologies, and ensuring the maintenance of the landscape, not only as a means of conserving green spaces but above all as a means of using native species and species in order not to alter the culture of the places. the people who live in these territories must be given all the tools they need to carry on their traditions in their villages, towns or islands. the specific programmes need to be strengthened and enhanced. the overall strategy for the european union's cultural heritage must become a genuine cross-cutting element of other policies, as must environmental sustainability, and all policies must complement each other in this respect. i am convinced that a balanced, rational, coherent and coordinated use of resources, and above all a more efficient use of resources, also at the financial level, will be the key to overcoming this double challenge. preserving the local and regional cultural heritage means allowing for a balanced socioeconomic development of the rural world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the rules of procedure provide that explanations of vote are to be made after the vote and not before. if we have to change the rules of procedure, i am in favour of it, but the rule must apply to all groups and not just to some.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i simply wanted to point out that, despite having supported the resolution on lebanon, all too often in this chamber, including by high commissioner solana, the terms 'european union' and 'european union member states' are used as synonyms and it is said that the european union is playing and has played a major role in the crisis in lebanon and also in the dispatch of the unifil mission. this is not the reality, some member states, some national states are playing a role. the european union has unfortunately also refused to use the few foreign policy instruments at its disposal. the role that the european union could play is to open up the prospect of accession to the states on the other side of the mediterranean, to turkey, to israel, but also to the other democracies on the other side of the mediterranean; the policy of nation states for israel, for palestine, is a losing policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while i fully support the unifil 2 mission, i would like to express my reservations about the actual mobilization of the european states, which, with the exception of italy, france and spain, will only make a more or less symbolic contribution. so far europe's appeals have been feeble, the words of the high representative for foreign affairs, mr solana, who called for a strong response from all the countries of the union, have dissipated in the air of brussels. if i were to overlook the veiled pro-palestinian orientation pervading the european institutions, which sometimes seems to lead to anti-semitism, i could not help but reiterate once again the inability of europe, which, driven by the usual search for political correctness, has not wanted to take a clear and distinct position. i wonder, however, how it is possible to speak of equidistance. (the president cut off the speaker)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on sri lanka.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the agenda includes five motions for resolutions on asylum seekers from north korea, in particular thailand.
author of the book. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a very serious incident, a sign of a situation of a very wide scope, as has already been pointed out by my colleagues and as is stated in the text of the resolution; i therefore have no choice but to ask the commissioner, vice-president frattini, what ways and means there are of raising the problem, particularly at the asem summit. the problem concerns north korea, of course also thailand, and of course concerns us as the european union and the un high commissioner for refugees. i have the impression, i do not know what the commissioner thinks, that too often in that region of the world, and not only in that region, the un high commissioner for refugees tends to be afraid of taking positions which may result, as it were, in policy - the case for example of the 'mountain' minorities in vietnam - and there are many other cases in which the un seems cautious in guaranteeing, in ensuring, the effective respect of refugee status, because it is afraid that this may be understood negatively by the governments or regimes in the area. the european union can play a major role in this respect by giving encouragement to international institutions, and in particular the un; to grant, grant, allow refugee status where the conditions are met. of course, in the case of north korea, i agree with what my colleagues said earlier, it is clearly not just economic migration, it is the result or product of one of the worst and most violent dictatorships still left on the face of the planet.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
the debate is closed. the vote will take place immediately.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was suspended at 4.20 p.m.)
member of the commission. mr president, once again, i would like to thank mrs prets, the culture committee’s rapporteur, for her commitment and constructive work, including several long meetings with my services and those of the council. for similar reasons, let me also express gratitude to the employment and social affairs committee, and especially the rapporteur, mr kusstatscher. thanks to their political will, flexibility and negotiating skills, we have been able to agree on a reliable compromise text. let me first refer to the main objectives of this proposal from the commission. the aim of the charter is to lay down common principles to make all types of mobility for learning purposes more efficient and more effective. these principles include quality information and guidance for the candidates; a sound learning plan; preparation, especially linguistic preparation; adequate logistical support and mentoring schemes in the host country. we also want to make clear what the responsibilities of all stakeholders are and to ensure fair recognition and evaluation of the study and training on return. we expect the charter to bring significant benefits to users. first, it should help make citizens more confident that mobility is useful and is being carried out in the right conditions. additionally, it should make it easier for the large category of people learning in another country to exercise the right to move and study freely within the european union. it should have a positive impact on the employability of those concerned. indeed, the charter responds to the important components of the social dimension of the european union: mobility, education and training for the acquisition of new skills and employability. i come now to mrs prets’ report, which i welcome very much. i know that the european parliament’s amendments mean that the text now fits even better with the objectives of the proposal. for instance, you point out that mobility is based on common values and on respect for diversity. you have extended the scope of the proposal to the specific needs of disadvantaged groups and people with disabilities. you have invited the commission to encourage the use of a mobility charter by national agencies and other organisations. you have insisted on developing gender-specific statistical data and you have also mentioned the portability of government grants and loans to the host country. to summarise, of the 36 amendments voted by the culture committee, only four have not been accepted by the commission. that was not a refusal of the underlying ideas, however, but only because the matter was outside the scope of the proposal, or else covered by other parts of the text. all the remaining 32 amendments have been fully integrated, either literally or with slight rewording. finally, as you know, coreper last week agreed on the compromise text. not a single member state opposed the text or maintained a reserve. that should ease the agreement in the first reading. therefore, i ask this house to confirm the text in its vote. it should be an excellent conclusion to a most efficient cooperation between institutions. but, before that, i am open to your questions.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. a quality charter for mobility throughout europe for all citizens travelling for education and training in europe is a good and necessary initiative, especially in the year of mobility. however, this mobility charter is also an example of the halfhearted approach to the year of mobility. in the committee on employment and social affairs, when we were discussing this resolution, we attached particular importance to the fact that vocational training should be considered as equivalent to general education. the second particular concern was to emphasize that good education and training is the best way to combat unemployment and poverty. the negotiations with the council were disappointing and revealing. i cannot confirm that it was done there by consensus, as you said earlier. the council reversed the procedure when it noted the willingness to compromise of the rapporteur of the committee responsible. the council told us parliament representatives what parliament could and could not recommend. a democratic process was established by a rapid agreement.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon strategy aims to accelerate the process of modernising europe's education and training systems in order to make the european economy the most competitive in the world by 2010. the basic and indispensable conditions for this are greater labour market mobility and an effective system of lifelong learning. the lack of communication and cooperation between national authorities and between training systems at various levels hampers the efficient use of skills and knowledge already acquired. this requires a certain degree of permeability between the education and qualification systems of the various member states. as the commissioner has mentioned, in some respects, work has already been started on the recognition of professional qualifications through directive 36, of which i was rapporteur, and which finds its natural complement and continuation in the creation of a european framework for qualifications. this work will be instrumental in improving and strengthening mutual trust between the different systems, fostering mobility and lifelong learning. it will have to offer a flexible structure which can be easily integrated with the corresponding national structures, while respecting the different specificities. it will have to ensure the recognition, compatibility and transfer of qualifications in vocational education and training, as mr mann rightly claims. this will mean increasing and improving the exchange of information in terms of qualifications, qualifications, certifications and professional experience recognised in the member states. the european qualifications framework, as envisaged in the commission's proposal, is not entirely clear at present. it needs to be made more comprehensible by revising some aspects which now appear to be uncoupled. we therefore suggest that the commission should review and reformulate the proposal, while maintaining its objectives.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the council and the commission's concern to achieve the widest possible mutual recognition of skills, abilities and competences acquired at school, in working life and in leisure is certainly very positive. the proposals of the rapporteur, thomas mann, to whom i would like to pay tribute, are also to be welcomed, particularly the suggestion that vocational training should be given much greater consideration alongside academic training. in the one minute i have, i would like to say a few words about the difficulties in the recognition of qualifications. the main difficulty is that knowledge and skills, as intangible assets, are very difficult to standardise and measure. for example, very good students often fail in their everyday work because the qualities measured and graded in school are often quite different. to succeed in working life, a person needs above all emotional, creative and social skills, courage, enthusiasm, practical intelligence, perseverance, resilience - qualities that are unfortunately not particularly demanded or promoted in school.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to inform the house that this morning, a few kilometres from kabul, there was a terrorist attack in which an italian soldier was killed and two other european soldiers, two italian soldiers, were seriously injured and were taken to hospital in kabul. i think it is right that we should express our solidarity with these women and men who are engaged in peace missions in afghanistan, iraq and lebanon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if there is anything that marks the existence of a european social model, it is services, which must be guaranteed as an element of citizenship. we are called upon to say whether and how there should be services of general value due to all citizens. after the bolkestein directive, a certain confusion has emerged between commercial services and general services, so we must now clarify what belongs to the sphere of the market and what belongs to the sphere of rights. that is why, in a series of amendments, we have incorporated proposals put forward by the etuc, according to which all general services, including those which are economic, that is to say those for which citizens pay directly or indirectly - and that is almost the whole of it - must fall within the sphere of public authority, of public authorities, and must be universal, accessible, affordable and of high quality. in other words, they must be services and not goods, that is to say, they must be europe and not north america. we ask everyone to identify with these amendments, which welcome the trade union platforms, also to clarify what is meant by a possible framework directive, that is to say, to understand what europe thinks of its social model and what it proposes to its member states, as regards general, economic and non-economic services.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, what i can say at this stage, after listening to the opinions of all parties, is this. as i said, we will be presenting a communication by the end of the year which will be a step forward from previous reflections. as far as the legislative texts are concerned, i think the debate has made it clear that we are far from reaching a consensus on a framework directive. that said, there will of course be legislative initiatives in various sectors. that said, i think we must think, and i myself will think with my services - the commission is not just a set of services, the college and the president also have ideas - about what can be done on a more general level. i cannot, at this stage, prejudge our proposal but - and here i am anticipating without engaging the commission, because it is a question i myself must put to the college - it seems to me, from the debate, that it would be possible to adopt an approach which could bring together the principles we have mentioned here, taking into account the need, as many of you have expressed, not to divide the house and europe today on the question of whether regulation is appropriate, particularly by calling into question the principle of subsidiarity. i think it is possible and i would like to conclude with a political remark. i am speaking to you as europeans who are convinced that you are. it is essential, if we are to make progress on this matter, to avoid the kind of polarization we have seen with the services directive. it seems to me that, in the same way that parliament, with the institutions, has managed to find a positive political balance on this directive, we need the same kind of approach to this issue. if we are divided between two extreme positions - yes or no to a global regulation on the issue - it seems to me that we are heading for a confrontation which will not be in the overall interest of europe, as we agree. so let's focus on the substance. there is also a lot of agreement in the rapkay report. then we will find a solution on the decision-making instruments.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on employment and social affairs on the council's common position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision establishing a community programme for employment and social solidarity - progress (06282/3/2006 - c6-0272/2006 - 2004/0158 (cod)) (rapporteur: karin jöns) (a6-0300/2006)
member of the commission. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached in may on the financial perspective foreseen the possibility of a rapid and successful conclusion of the negotiations on the community programme for employment and social solidarity, progress, which is the main political instrument to support the ambitious social objectives set by the union in the lisbon strategy. the facts proved us right. and so today you are preparing to vote on the decision that will establish this program. on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank in particular the members of the committee on employment and social affairs for the quality of their work and the efforts they have made throughout the negotiations. i would like to thank in particular mrs karin jöns, who was the parliamentary rapporteur on this matter. i'd also like to thank all the shadow reporters involved, without whom such a good conclusion would not have been possible. this text uses the terms of the agreement reached between the institutions. the questions which the european parliament could have raised in 2005 when examining the proposal at first reading have therefore already been taken into account. the distribution of the budget between the different policy areas covered by our programme reflects your expectations. we have responded to your efforts to strengthen the importance of the gender equality section of the programme. the same was true of the section on social inclusion and social protection. parliament will also be closely involved each year in voting on the amounts necessary to implement the activities covered by the programme. it was a point on which parliament and the commission were in agreement. we felt that this should be done in a completely transparent way. i am pleased to note that the council has finally adopted this position, thus opening the way to a rapid resolution of these negotiations. finally, let me thank the honourable members of this house who, with their clear determination to reach a satisfactory agreement and with their efforts to that end, have made a considerable contribution to this very good result.
the debate is still ongoing because of delays in the voting.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for the results and other details of the votes: see minutes)
that concludes the voting.
in writing. the high number of respiratory diseases and loss of life due to high levels of air pollution shows the urgency and the imperative need for further community legislation on health protection, which will further limit emissions harmful to humans. the abnormal and high rates of congenital malformations in some industrial areas of the european union are of particular concern. the case of the petrochemical complexes in sicily is emblematic: in the period 1992-2002, almost one thousand out of every 13 000 children born in italy had cardiovascular, limb and digestive malformations, while the mortality rate for stomach cancer in males was 57% higher than the italian average. even in some urban areas, such as the city of messina, which absorbs day and night the vehicle traffic that is directed from sicily to the european continent and vice versa, the situation is now unsustainable. the support of the enu for the krahmer report is a further incentive for the fight against air pollution in europe to be strengthened in the years to come.
the gue/ngl group has voted in favour of opening negotiations with turkey, but we believe that the respect for human rights and democracy must be at the heart of these negotiations and that this respect must be inextricably linked to the political and diplomatic solution to the kurdish question. last week i was on the human rights subcommittee's mission to turkey and i came back with a very different picture than i had hoped for. we have found a particularly dramatic situation in turkish kurdistan, which is a totally militarized zone. it is one thing for all of us to condemn terrorism, it is another thing to consider an entire people as terrorists, it is another thing to imprison minors simply because they saluted "v" with their fingers, it is another thing to continue the logic of torture and to remove those magistrates who are investigating, for example, police officers who are thought to be responsible for an attack. as a parliament we must support the dtp's call for a ceasefire and we must call on the pkk to respond positively to this call. we must ask the turkish government to enter into direct talks with the dtp to find a political solution, there is no other alternative. however, the problems are not just about the kurdish issue: we all rejoiced at elif shafak's solution, as pamuk did before, but this may be a mirror image of the west's only allodle: there are at least 80 other writers, journalists who are on trial for article 301. and at the same time the turkish parliament approved the original anti-terrorism law, despite the opposite opinion expressed not only by europe but also by the united nations. we have also seen how in the hakkari region, also in the kurdistan region, there are seven thousand village guards out of two hundred and fifty thousand people, a situation of a police force which answers directly to the government for which the european union has long called for its dissolution. the commitment we ask of parliament, the commission and the council is to continue negotiations with turkey, but to put human rights at the centre and not just ideological debates or economic interests. we believe that the future can be a multiethnic and multi-religious europe, but always with respect for the human rights of all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to focus on one aspect of mr eurlings' report, namely interreligious dialogue. it is a subject which is in the spotlight these days all over the world because of what has happened, because of the controversies that have been raised, because of the attention that has been paid to the words spoken by benedict xvi in germany and because of the reactions of the islamic world. there was a very important meeting yesterday which showed how important it is for all of us that there should be constructive and positive dialogue between representatives of different religions, that is to say between christians and muslims. the meeting was based on the principle of reciprocity, according to which each party has the right to defend its own position, to defend its own values, to be able to express its own beliefs, for muslims where christians are the majority, and for christians where muslims are the majority. the turkish ambassador was also present at castel gandolfo yesterday for the meeting with the holy father. these issues have been discussed at length and i believe that the visit to turkey by benedict xvi is therefore of fundamental importance. it will be an important visit because, in our view, it will promote dialogue between christians and muslims, between a muslim majority and a christian minority, whether catholic, protestant or orthodox, living in turkey. that is why we have tabled an amendment with the rapporteur, mr eurlings. i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to speak with mr tannock and to draw the attention of the whole house, including the other political forces, to the fact that, through a strong message from parliament, we can encourage dialogue between christians and muslims, between christianity and islam, we can leave extremism out of the equation, we can isolate the fundamentalists and we can have dialogue between those who really want to build peace in the middle east and africa. in conclusion, it is in turkey's own interest to help reforms and to encourage dialogue between christians and muslims. the progress of this country on its way to the european union is measured above all by the results achieved in interreligious dialogue, respect for the rights of minorities and respect for the civil rights of all those living in turkey.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, turkish prime minister erdogan has strongly criticised the pope's lecture at the university of regensburg: a religion-based class with a theology foundation, not a politics foundation. the fact that it was the prime minister and not a turkish cleric who criticised the pope shows that there is still an unacceptable mingling of the sacred and the profane, of politics and religion in that country, not the separation we are used to in our european union. this confusion means that turkey should not join the european union for this reason too, although the main reason will never be eliminated, namely that turkey should not join the union because turkey is not geographically in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the assessment of turkey's progress in the process of accession to the union should focus more on the merits of the assessments of the criteria set out in copenhagen and the files relating to the acquis communautaire. i would avoid introducing new criteria which are diverting and which do not help an already difficult process which requires transparency, consistency and objectivity on our part. i agree with paragraph 50 on the armenian genocide, as proposed by the rapporteur. the role of this country is crucial in a geopolitical area that goes from the mashrek to southeast asia, to the caucasus. all this leads us to encourage the efforts of those who are working for a democratic and peaceful turkey. that said, we must be punctual in our judgments and call on the turkish government, on the whole of the apparatus and institutions, on turkish society, to commit themselves fully to issues where progress must be more significant and consistent. they concern civil, political and social rights, freedom of expression, and in particular the rights of minorities, primarily the kurdish minority and women, who are the majority. we hope that terrorism will be firmly condemned and that the ankara protocol will be implemented in due course. in conclusion, let us try to remain worthy and credible and effective in continuing to positively influence the internal developments of this country and its external role of peaceful stabilization in an explosive area where the most serious threats to peace are concentrated.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, those who voted in favour of opening negotiations with turkey have already explained many times the good reasons for reaching accession tomorrow, so there is no need to repeat ourselves. this annual debate on the state of progress is, instead, the thermometer that concretely records the reforms made and the mood of public opinion, and i think we can all see how the coldness on both sides has increased in recent times. we are against arranged marriages: to marry, you have to know and love each other, and this is also true for the ambitious turkish goal. the turkish government must therefore make greater efforts in its reforms and also in its dissemination to society. the report is very tough in that sense, but it is fair and it is right that the negotiation should be tough and fair. however, there is also growing scepticism in europe about further enlargement beyond bulgaria and romania if the rules are not changed. this is a scepticism which is likely to engulf the western balkans as well. that is why we must not block enlargement but rather relaunch the reform of the rules. the question of turkey is, in fact, also a question of ourselves and of what we want to be.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this report and this debate are signs of a europe that is closing in on itself. some of my colleagues, if they dare to say so more openly, consider europe to be a religious fact and space and therefore the death of political europe. i believed that the dream, the inspiration and the reason for the birth of the european federalist dream, was precisely to expand the area of the rule of law and democracy. this is the great offer we should be making to turkey and at a time when islamic fundamentalism is on the rise in the world, we should have the need and put it into a report to speed up the accession process. then even the harshest criticism might make sense. in reality, there are openly divergent solutions here, not political accession and full membership for turkey, but rather enhanced cooperation agreements, all of which do not have the strength of the political message and full membership. if we follow this path, which president barroso unfortunately also indicated in his statements yesterday, we will have the responsibility not only to push turkey away, but also to push political europe away.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my favourable opinion on the council decision of 30 january 2006 amending and extending decision 2001/923/eec establishing an action programme on trade, assistance and training for the protection of the euro against counterfeiting, of which i am the shadow rapporteur. the decision also provides for the extension of the programme to non-participating member states. the main objective of the programme is to ensure, through exchanges, assistance and training, the protection of the euro in a uniform manner for all member states, while taking into account the specificities of each. in may this year the commission presented an overall favourable evaluation paper, given the major contribution the programme has made to the protection of the euro and the fight against counterfeiting. the pericles programme has identified geographical areas, such as colombia, where there is a tendency to produce counterfeit banknotes, by creating better facilities through the establishment of national centres to combat counterfeiting. it is therefore important to continue to ensure cooperation between the european institutions, namely the commission, olaf, the european central bank and europol, in order to identify those areas where the incidence of euro counterfeiting is highest. the extension of the programme allows the continuation of surveillance, training and technical assistance activities, which are essential to maintain the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. the programme also makes it possible to increase efficiency by extending technical assistance to include, thanks to the participation of europol, financial assistance for cooperation in crossborder operations. particular attention should be paid to the new member states, especially those which will introduce the euro as the single currency. i conclude by expressing my support for both the continuation of the programme, as proposed by the council, and its extension to non-participating member states so that the necessary measures can be taken to ensure the same level of protection of the euro also in the member states which have not yet adopted it as their official currency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the community's strategic guidelines define the principles and priorities of cohesion policy and suggest ways of enabling europe's regions to make full use of the 308 billion euro allocated to national and regional aid programmes over the next seven years. i would like to focus on one factor which is decisive for the effectiveness of cohesion policy: the quality of the partnership between all local and regional actors involved in the preparation and implementation of the programmes. strategies designed at the level closest to the citizen must be an integral part of efforts to promote growth and employment. the role of small and mediumsized enterprises, the need to meet local skills needs, the importance of clusters, the need for local innovation centres are so important that it is often necessary to start from the bottom. involvement is not just about the economic agenda, but also about the more direct engagement of citizens through partnership and governance mechanisms at various levels, within which cohesion policy is managed, in order to achieve the union's growth and employment objectives. closer cooperation between the commission and the authorities of the member states is essential to define a cohesion strategy that addresses community priorities in a national and regional context and also for its benefit to the territories through an operational programme. i would also like to congratulate mrs krehl on her keen and competent way of stimulating the debate on a subject as important as that which is the subject of this recommendation. i am pleased to note, madam commissioner, that the text of the strategic guidelines reflects the considerable work done by parliament over the last two years. it's a result that we think is very significant and important. the commission has already taken account of the relevant issues which have been raised by the honourable members and which have been the subject of reflection by the committee responsible and debate here in the house. i would like to conclude by expressing my hope, but i am confident that my colleagues will be able to reward the efforts made in this legislative resolution by voting in favour.
statistics show that between 1988 and 2001 the gap between the poorest regions and the eu average has been reduced by one sixth, thanks to the results achieved by cohesion policy. 2005 was a record year for cohesion policy in terms of resources invested, with a total of €38.3 billion committed to the european regional development fund, the european social fund, the cohesion fund and the fund for pre-accession policies for the candidate countries. in the same year, the reform of the eu's regional policy achieved significant results, including its official recognition as an instrument of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. for the period 2007-2013, recent research indicates that the additional gdp growth of the new member states will be in the range of approximately 7-12% and that 2.5 million jobs could be created. the new strategic guidelines adopted today in this chamber place a greater focus on growth, indicating that in future cohesion policy will have to put emphasis on the knowledge and information society, entrepreneurship, the environment and employment, in order to promote an even more balanced and sustainable development of the community.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the green group in the european free alliance has always been in favour of moving these issues to the community procedure ever since the maastricht treaty invented the pillar procedure, which was supposed to be temporary in theory but which in reality proved to be quite definitive. but procedures are not the end of the matter and i wonder what the policy is today in these matters by parliament, the council and the commission. the priority seems to be to reduce, repel, coerce and eliminate and it is curious that this debate has been started by the commissioner speaking of terrorism and saying that security must be the top priority. i think that also says a lot about the sense of priority that many of our leaders have. despite the borders, the terrible risks, the growing tolerance for violations of international law, we will not be able to stop immigration and this must be something we should all be clear about! i do not like, frankly, commissioner, when you use the word 'solidarity' too often, especially when you mean 'helping member states to turn back at the frontiers people who are arriving desperate and without rights'. i would also point out that we have not eliminated the risk that the rejection of people arriving by boat at the border does not seriously violate the right of many to seek asylum, because they are rejected directly at the point of origin. the regularisations, condemned by mr klamt, but also by commissioner frattini, are a direct result of the policy which says 'zero immigration is possible', but which hides a factual reality, namely that we need immigrants. mr commissioner, mr president, i do not know whether it is true that the majority of illegal immigrants who come to us are unqualified people. i know cases of history professors, electricians, people with qualifications who come here but can't find qualified jobs, because they obviously enter a circle with no qualifications at all; i think that to say that the problem is to get people out of developing countries who can help those countries to get out of their underdeveloped situations is a wrong message that the european union must not send! finally, mr president, commissioner, i would like to hear your views on the subject of agreements with third countries. i am very concerned about this, and so is my group, because we know that some of the member states, for example france, spain and italy, are negotiating agreements with third countries in secret and only through police agreements, which do not guarantee respect for the rights of the individual. we know very well that these countries often and willingly violate the rights not only of their own citizens but also of migrants. in particular, this is the case with libya, to which the commissioner has just said that he wants to give a large sum of money, and i would personally like to hear a few words from him about what kind of democracy and publicity there should be in such agreements. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems that exist in the european union, and that it is not only the european parliament that is responsible for these problems, but also the european parliament. the debate today also has this feature: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. only when it is understood that the issue of immigration must be separated from repressive policies, from the criminalization of migrants and from the fight against terrorism and organised crime will it be possible to seriously discuss a common european union policy on immigration. we also need to banish the topic of invasion from our debate: the category of invasion is false and unfounded, we all know that only 15% of illegal immigration comes by sea from africa and then all the rest comes by land or by air. this is also the case in spain and italy, even taking into account the figures for migrants arriving in the canary islands or lampedusa. we must start again through legal channels, as the commission said in its green paper: "we need 20 million migrant workers by 2030" and then we get activated to let them in, instead people are forced to die at sea. we didn't understand what frontex did this summer to prevent people from dying. europe cannot be the land of mass rejections, nor can we tolerate the atlantic and the mediterranean as open cemeteries! i would like to make a proposal to commissioner frattini: we are setting up a monument, a perpetual reminder of the slaughter of migrants at sea. in a few months, it will be the 10th anniversary of the first recognized massacre of migrants at sea: the sinking of a ship with almost 400 migrants off porto palo between malta and sicily. let's make a human gesture here! we're building a monument, a symbolic mass grave for unnamed men and women who died at sea in search of a better future. a great latin poet would have said: "we rebuild a collective memory that is more durable than bronze". this is probably the strongest and most concrete action that europe can take today to seriously discuss immigration.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have already spoken on several occasions in this chamber about the urgent need for a common immigration policy and i note with satisfaction the recent initiatives taken at community level and the recent release of funds for states in emergency. the member states have now realised, perhaps belatedly, from the numerous tragedies in the mediterranean, that migration phenomena no longer concern the peripheral states of the eu and that the general objectives of economic growth can only be achieved in a climate of general security. this awareness may finally convince them to share equally the responsibilities and financial burdens of border management. this will be a real commitment, as evidenced by the increased financial resources that the eu will make available over the next seven years as part of the consolidation of an area of freedom, security and justice. another positive element is the creation of a specific programme to regulate migration flows with ad hoc funds for returns, refugees and integration. the creation of an external border agency is also important, but unfortunately it does not yet have the necessary staff, but i hope that it will gradually receive more attention and more funding. i hope that this step will lead to the creation of common minimum standards to combat illegal immigration and regulate legal immigration and that a credible policy respecting the rights of the individual can be implemented. but a credible policy can only be rigorous, there can be no european policy which favours mass legalisation and which extends the rights of citizenship indiscriminately. it is now well known that the health centres not only do not solve problems without improving the conditions of immigrants, but that they almost always make them worse, only fuel marginalization and widespread crime that often leads to terrorism. finally, credibility means reaffirming the eu's ideals of solidarity and the protection of its own freedoms, while ensuring that the law is respected. the eu will never refuse to help those in need and those who really want to integrate, but for those who want to export violence, culture, values and religions, the principle of 'zero tolerance' will have to be applied. it is not desirable, but sometimes it is indispensable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a situation where in italy the first decision of the new prodi government was to regularize five hundred thousand illegal immigrants, then with the policies on family reunification they will easily become at least a million, and in zapatero's spain the same operation leads to the regularization of seven hundred thousand illegal immigrants, well, the other countries of the european union have a good right to ask what are the aims of such measures if not political demagogy. it is a question of why the european institutions do not have the courage to call these governments to account. but in italy the prodi government has gone further, it has even amended community law by linking the possibility of applying for political asylum also in situations which are independent of the serious reasons, which we share and which constitute the legal prerequisites for the recognition of political asylum, a fundamental institution of the freedoms linked to human rights. the privileges of political asylum are also granted to immigrants who do not come from countries at risk, where human rights are not respected, or from war zones! even if only by submitting the application pending examination and then, in the event of rejection of examination, pending the resolution of the long appeal procedure. these policies are contrary to what is being described today by the european institutions as a serious immigration policy, including when it comes to adjustments to the principle of asylum. it is not possible to argue that this can become a pretext for breaking the rules which are intended to regulate the phenomenon. so i say: thank you switzerland! thank you, blocker! long live the swiss! the european union must not allow itself to be overwhelmed by the immigration crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we avoid a dialogue between deaf people on such a sensitive subject, but it is useful to start by establishing some firm points. the first major issue is immigration, which is a commitment by all and for all. just think about what happened over the past summer: once again, tens of thousands of people have landed in lampedusa, in the canaries, or rather, they have arrived in europe. spain, italy, sometimes cyprus and greece, have often been just the entry doors because these people come in, they don't stand at the door. that is why, as president borrell, commissioner frattini and now the president of the council have also said, this is not just a humanitarian emergency, it is not just an exceptional event, it is above all a structural phenomenon which calls into question the whole of the european union and its ability to finally put in place a european immigration policy. i am not doing this to do a favour to some member states, but because the whole union is involved. second point: we must not, even if we have a responsibility, make the mistake of confusing immigration with terrorism, because this is what first causes fear and timidity among the people of europe. if so, perhaps we should introduce another paradigm, that of immigration and slavery, with which many of these immigrants are beginning to be associated in some member countries. the third positive point is: we must say that we are facing a new challenge of civilization. this awareness is at the heart of the cultural and political leap the union must make on immigration. this is not a problem of a few or a marginal problem, it is a new commitment which the union must take on as one of the new tasks of the millennium, and we have said concretely what this means. now, commissioner, mr president, we know how much resistance this is encountering in many governments, but if this parliament can play a role, then that role is to push, to commit, to send a message: "let's do something", because we say this to those governments who are afraid even so we rebuild trust between the union and the citizens, that is, by showing that the union exists and is present.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. immigration is happening whether we like it or not. the question is how we deal with it. a fortress europe with wealth inside and poverty outside cannot be held. europe also needs immigrants. the present proposal is well-intentioned, but unfortunately it is not good. it is a partisan compromise, it lacks political vision. the current practice of rejecting foreigners in southern europe and northern africa is brutal, inhuman and ethically irresponsible we have forgotten the words of the programme: "liberty, equality and fraternity". we have a very ambiguous approach to human rights and we are not in compliance with the geneva convention on refugees.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a minute is very short, so i shall confine myself to one point. we are faced with policies which make clear what europe could and should do: the european union has a common asylum system, common rules on legal immigration, and common management of the external borders. it is clear that national efforts are no longer enough, because they simply do not work. it is clear that public opinion would support this different idea of effective sovereignty, as a european one, although i must say that there were too many speeches this morning by italian or mediterranean members of parliament, as if the problem of immigration were exclusively a problem of ours, that is, of the area of the mediterranean countries. the title of the press release which closed the tampere summit is also unclear: "ministers call for greater solidarity and cooperation". i'm sorry, mr. president, but who should they ask if not themselves? i want a european constitution which does not yet exist, does anyone in the council have any other idea than the rapid application of the catwalk? and who benefits from this institutional surplace? i think that a large majority of parliament has made its views clear on this point, at least today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many new developments threaten our security and our freedom, uncontrolled immigration being certainly one of them. but the greatest and most recent danger, and vice-president frattini spoke of it earlier, comes from terrorism; as coordinator of my group on the temporary committee on the cia, i and my colleagues have addressed the problem, we have all worked together to find solutions. i have come to the conclusion that we can do very little and unfortunately we have done very little to discover new truths, new responsibilities, new culprits. we must therefore concentrate on the future, on the means and instruments to prevent the recurrence of illegal situations which put our freedom and security at greater risk. what can we do? i find one element in the question to the council at the origin of this morning's debate, namely when it comes to initiatives to remedy the lack of confidence between member states. this is an important point, an essential one! we need more information to combat terrorism within the union, including with our main allies, first and foremost the united states, with whom we have recently had some problems. an exchange on a basis of equality and mutual trust. we also need greater control over the activities of the intelligence services of one country in the territory of another. the secret services must remain secret to operate effectively, but within a certain limit. our cia committee has no investigative powers and so we must insist that it is the national parliaments, which in many countries have the appropriate instruments, that investigate any violations of human rights, threats to our security and freedom. we will then have to coordinate research to find solutions that are compatible at european level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, progress in the area of security and freedom has so far been meagre and insufficient to deal with a fundamental problem. on the subject of freedom, the council has for years decided to base its action on mutual recognition, as if the justice systems, the police systems and the intelligence services of individual european countries could necessarily cooperate on the basis of mutual recognition. the facts show that this principle is not enough, but that it also takes courage to harmonize certain policies so that they become european policies, particularly in the field of freedom. we are still united on certain points: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. it is on the subject of freedoms that we lack common guarantees as the european union, on this subject cooperation between the national states is not enough.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this summer too we have witnessed every day landings and shipwrecks that have caused and are causing hundreds of deaths in european waters. the flow of vessels trying to reach the union's shores is not decreasing, but increasing. the situation is now an objective and genuine emergency, to be dealt with seriously. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. we have heard it and said it many times in this house: malta, italy and spain are putting their forces at the disposal of the whole union, suffering in total isolation. it is the entire european union of 25 countries - soon to be 27 - that must face up to the extreme gravity of the situation once and for all. national selfishness must be abandoned! it is time to start looking at the immigration emergency as a problem of the 25 member states and not just those which, because of their geographical location, have to recover corpses from the sea on a daily basis. the commission, through commissioner frattini, whom we applaud objectively, not just because he is a friend, is preparing concrete proposals for action and is trying to implement the programmes already in place. but it is for the council to decide how to deal with what has already become a human tragedy. but, mr president, the council is still making fun of europe. it is the council which must assume the responsibility for giving a strong and effective signal to make the problem community-wide! in this connection, mr minister, i would like to take this opportunity to renew once again the call for an extraordinary council on home affairs to be convened on the island of malta, which is one of the countries most exposed and most in difficulty because of its size. i also renew once again the request to discuss the dublin agreement. mr. minister, no more talk! the european union, through the council, must prove that it actually exists!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, opening up legal channels of entry, taking account of the market demand of the individual member states, is one of the priorities, along with the fight against illegal work, in order to tackle the complex phenomenon of immigration in a pragmatic way, with common european action, a concerted effort, a collective effort. but if these are not to remain empty words, we must get rid of the hypocrisy of the grand and theoretical declarations of principle at the council's summits and renounce the exploitation of immigration for internal policy purposes, which is an unacceptable and irresponsible practice! in this context, it is crucial that the 'passerelle' clause be finally applied! only then will we be able to act effectively where we have already accumulated too many delays. i agree with those who said "you have to ride", but i add "otherwise you fall". but in this case, we'd all fall together, in a chorus. in case you haven't noticed, we're all on the same bike.
achieving a common european policy on immigration and asylum is clearly a priority, although member states have shown different sensitivities to the issue so far. but i think it is even more urgent to tackle the problem of illegal immigration, which, despite repeated calls for cooperation from the institutions, has so far been the main burden on the states on the eu's natural borders. it is therefore urgent to find practical solutions to contain and regulate this phenomenon. coordinating the border forces of the different member states is useful but not sufficient. the proposal to set up a joint border intervention team is certainly the most appropriate solution, and i thank the finnish presidency for bringing it to mind. last but not least, dialogue and support with the countries from which flows originate and those which are bridges to europe is absolutely the basis of any lasting and effective solution. i hope that the next presidencies, and germany in particular, which receives a large part of the immigration flow from the southern borders, will be able to tackle this issue with firmness and to reach a consensus on an issue which affects all european citizens and the delicate social balances of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize to the president, but on amendment no 29 i have been informed of an error in the french translation, so that, according to the wishes of the authors of the text, the words 'taxes libérales' should be corrected in the spirit of the french text in 'tarif différencié'. we have a mistake in the translation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted consciously and with conviction for the first part of paragraph 69 and against the second part. i believe that the good work of mr eurling and many other colleagues is a list of issues and situations which do not favour turkey's accession. this is one reason why accession should not be the aim of the negotiations. that is why i voted against the report as a whole. we should concentrate on paragraph 71 by trying to find a way for turkey to be integrated into european structures. this is also true of other neighbouring countries, which should not be promised membership, and which are already considered to be unlikely to become a member.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in discussing and assessing turkey's alleged progress towards european union membership, after having adopted an important resolution on the armenian genocide, i wonder what we can ask for but a clear commitment, finally, from turkey on this front, precisely on the subject of respect for human rights and adherence to the values on which the european union is founded. the vote today has once again demonstrated the hypocrisy of political correctness, and it is intended to show the need for a clear position on the questions which europe has the duty to put to the turkish rulers, to the turkish institutions, to those who have greeted the pope's words and the prospect of the pope's visit with vulgar, violent and mafia-like phrases. europe is watching, while turkish children are still being taught in schoolbooks that the armenian genocide is a false history. so those who say that we must be very careful about the words of criticism of those who want to revise history are right. this is a disgrace! turkey refuses and continues to refuse, in the hypocritical and shameful silence of europe, to recognize the rights of the peoples, of the armenians of course, but also of the kurds. it is no longer the europe of human rights, it is the europe that does not care about human rights!
in writing. mr president, on behalf of the transnational radical party i voted against the report on turkey by mr eurlings because with this report our assembly is sanctioning yet another closure of the european union to the mediterranean and the middle east. instead of expressing a desire to speed up turkey's european integration process, parliament envisages alternative ways of bringing ankara closer to brussels that have nothing to do with serious accession negotiations. the eu cannot close itself off to itself and concentrate solely on its own constitution, as president barroso explained to us a few days ago. and it cannot even hope for the holy father's good offices to establish a dialogue with the islamic world and the middle east, as stated in the eurlings report. josef ratzinger is not javier solana. we must, instead, take up marco pannella's call for peace in the middle east and revive the federalist and democratic aspiration for a europe capable of including as many women and men as possible in a political project of freedom, democratic reforms and peace.
the humanitarian and political situation in darfur is worsening day by day. according to the un humanitarian coordinator jan egeland, the humanitarian situation has also worsened since 2004: the whole of darfur is without humanitarian personnel because the khartoum government is blocking access to international agencies. the persecution of the civilian population by armed gangs financed and supported by the central sudanese government, the notorious janjaweed, is now taking on the contours of genocide. the international community cannot stand by and watch, the mission of the organization of african unity to protect the civilian population has practically failed. his lack of political and military credibility is now beyond question. we therefore support the un intervention described in security council resolution 1706, which the sudanese government has consistently denied. it is necessary to deploy the peacekeeping mission envisaged in 1706 to protect the hundreds of thousands of women, men and children who have been suffering for too long from the janjaweed, whose dismantling is rightly called for in previous un resolutions. of course, it would be even better if the sudanese government approved the deployment of such a un force; i hope and i also believe that the arab league states should exert the most appropriate pressure on khartoum to accept the un resolution. at the same time, however, any sudanese veto at the un is unacceptable: there are hundreds of thousands of innocent lives at stake and we have to do something about them. the whole credibility of the international community will be called into question if we do not. it is therefore necessary that un humanitarian personnel be able to be present throughout the darfur region, otherwise humanitarian aid cannot be distributed properly. the sudanese government must know that its full integration into the international community will depend on cooperation with the united nations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is intended to remove the last vestige of hypocrisy from the attitude of the khartoum government. in 2000, with the members of this parliament present at the acp assembly, we conducted a mission to sudan and with mrs kinnock we had the opportunity to speak to ibn al-turabi, then in prison, the former comrade-in-arms of omar al bashir, one of the leading figures of sudanese islamic fundamentalism, one of the men who had organized the hospitality in sudan of osama bin laden. and he told us in plain letters since then, since 2000, what the strategy of "arabization" of the khartoum government consisted of. a strategy of arabisation, and i say this not by chance, not of islamisation, but of arabisation of a part of the country where, according to many official documents of the sudanese government, the so-called "darfur apes", that is to say the inhabitants of darfur, lived. well, to be aware of this for europe today means once again not simply asking and playing the game of the khartoum government, to intervene between hypothetical parties involved: there are no parties to the conflict, there is no civil war in darfur, there are only murderers and victims. there are only murderers with a double-edged sword to their khartoum masters, through whom a mad ideology is being pursued that risks not only leading us to genocide, but ratifying a genocide that has been going on for a very long time. it is therefore essential that the european institutions, by taking urgent measures such as those described by mrs carlotti, should be able to support those who care about the life of a generation.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr karim and the entire committee on international trade for their excellent work on this report. the rapid economic development of india, the world's most populous democracy with a growth rate of 9 per cent in 2005 alone, also represents, given the country's geopolitical characteristics, yet another, in many ways fascinating, challenge to the european union on international markets, a challenge that will have potential benefits for europe, but also possible risks. in india, four hundred million citizens live on less than a dollar a day. the agricultural sector employs 65 percent of the population with outdated facilities and means. nuclear energy is used only as a deterrent in the long-running war with neighbouring pakistan, it is not used to the full for the purposes of environmentally friendly development, and this makes the country dependent on foreign energy and forces it to look to the world for the energy sources needed for its development. india is a country of great wealth and great poverty, and even today it is difficult for women to find work, even less if they are qualified, except for the most humble tasks, or it is difficult for women to be accepted as entrepreneurs. talking about india is not easy given the vastness of its territory and all the variables that this entails, but india is also a great hope for a better distribution of international trade. india is also a large country with a continuously growing, high-growth gross domestic product, with a highly skilled class able to meet new international challenges in high-tech sectors. the economy is improving in many regions and the door has been opened to foreign investment, from which europe seems to be excluded. india accounts for only 1% of europe's total trade. we therefore feel that a strategic partnership between these two great blocs is necessary in order to create a more favourable climate for cooperation, with better mutual knowledge, which will make it possible to reduce the barriers between them in accordance with common rules. the recent disagreements in geneva in the doha round have created some difficulties, but india and the european union must take responsibility for relaunching a multilateral framework. the asian giant, which is a developing country with deep social imbalances, needs a stronger european presence to help it achieve balanced growth. there must be a fair and open approach on the european side to strengthening the european presence in india by giving the appropriate support to our initiatives in that part of the world. what is needed, and what must be done in the face of china's growing economic expansion, is to find a strategy for europe towards the rest of the world. we cannot, however, fail to mention the scourge of child labour, which in many cases affects children at a very high level in the indian economy, the lack of minimum standards of social protection for the weaker sections, and the division of society into castes, which makes life and growth difficult for a part of the population. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the children of the poorest countries are not forced to work, and that the children of the poorest countries are not forced to work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi and i congratulate mr karim on the agreeable approach he has taken to the report. as a representative of the european parliament and as a member of the committee on development, i can only be satisfied with india's commitment to the millennium development goals and with the work of the indian government, which has long since shown that it can be a reliable partner for any future interactions and collaborations, including trade. however, i believe that the efforts made so far to combat child labour, dumping, especially in the textile and footwear sectors, piracy and the creation of environmentally friendly development are insufficient and weak. the union has a duty to support and encourage india to solve problems of this magnitude through the large and long awaited structural reforms. the largest democracy in asia has a responsibility to develop a well-defined social reform that allows the overcoming of today's caste society which has a wide negative impact both on access to education and services and on the more general condition of women; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the improvement of the system could and should, also through the strengthening of trade with pakistan, lead to the development of lasting peaceful relations with the neighbouring countries and, as regards the internal market, to the development of trade and synergies between the different regions which are today characterized by enormous socioeconomic disparities. on this basis and in this framework we can only guarantee our full and convinced support for a country which, after having been on its knees for a long time, is ready to rise up and play its part.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the indications given in mr guerreiro's report have the strong merit of responding positively to the needs that have been put forward by the fisheries operators in recent years and should therefore be clearly reflected in the commission's decision. the report is a decisive step in defence of employment levels in a sector which in europe has 90 000 vessels and employs some 180 000 people. the previous fisheries directives have caused a sharp reduction in jobs, with the level of european imports now reaching 40% of its needs. in the last ten years, 35 per cent of jobs and 20 per cent of vessels have been lost in a sector concentrated mainly in regions with weak economies and particularly disadvantaged. one of the most important elements of the report to which i would like to draw attention is the request to the commission to ensure and support the operation and adoption of measures to remedy the high volatility of fuel prices, by creating a guarantee fund for the sector co-financed at community level on the one hand and activating the financial instrument for fisheries guidance on the other hand to minimise the operating costs. rescue aid should be extended to 12 months, with an increase from eur 30 000 to eur 100 000. the european fisheries fund must continue to provide aid for the renewal and modernisation of the fleet, in particular by allowing the replacement of engines, in order to ensure safety and protection for workers and the environment. nor can we forget the role of research, which must be carried out and developed in order to increase energy efficiency, reduce costs and ensure the protection of fisheries and fisheries systems. only by taking these indications into account can we help the areas of the weakest regions of the european economic system, closely linked to the fisheries sector, to defend their employment levels and european consumers. (applause) i would like to thank
we all know the difficult situation in the fisheries sector, given the progressive and sometimes severe depletion of fish stocks, the reductions imposed on fishing activities and the increase in the cost of certain factors of production. in our view, to support and promote the sector as a factor in the economy of development, in the sustainable management of marine resources and in the full employment of coastal communities, it is essential to invest economic resources in the modernization of fleets, in the training of personnel and in the improvement of living and working conditions for seafarers. it is not possible to push for a mere downsizing of the sector without taking into account the disastrous consequences for full employment: the measures requested by the european commission are reasonable but insufficient. finally, i agree with the precise and detailed proposals in the report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that europe needs a coherent system of state-of-the-art infrastructure, research and development to remain competitive in the field of nanoscience and nanotechnology. they can play a positive role in achieving important economic, social and environmental goals and i hope that they can meet the needs of citizens and thus contribute to the well-being of nations. there are undeniable facts we cannot ignore: a whole series of technological advances are just around the corner, thanks to the aggregation of atoms and molecules to form new materials. increased funding for this branch of research is essential to ensure the competitiveness of the european industrial system, while respecting inalienable ethical principles and public health and environmental criteria. i agree with some of the amendments tabled by mr hammerstein and mr breyer, namely: amendment 1 to paragraph 2 is a useful and prudent recommendation on the assessment of potential risks to human health and the environment and the further social and ethical implications, which does not take anything away from the original text; amendment no 6 to the proposal that research aid should be granted only to projects which use at least half of the resources for risk assessment; amendment no 8, which stresses that risk assessment must be carried out throughout the life cycle of nanotechnology products, from design to disposal. the fact that the toxicological risks of nanotechnology seem high, even according to many experts interviewed by mit's prestigious technology review, cannot be overlooked, and the report nevertheless considers this side of the coin as well. i think it is right to be cautious about the new paragraph 5a, which is about proper risk assessment and ensuring traceability, labelling and liability for products based on nanotechnologies. however, while i agree with the limitation of research, i think the text is a bit generic and i shall therefore abstain, as i did on the proposed new paragraph 17. in conclusion, nations and europe must be competitive in the field of nanosciences and the proposed effort appears minimal, a timid undertaking, to try to bridge the gap already existing with both the usa and the far east. the report rightly considers both the economic and strategic prospects of the knowledge triangle and the needs of sustainability and health. i therefore vote in favour of the excellent work of mr ransdorf.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr ransdorf for his report and i would also like to thank commissioner potocnik for his presence. nanotechnologies are extremely important, starting with nanoelectronics, which allows us to achieve increasingly high efficiency with less energy consumption than current microelectronics, as confirmed by the activity of the platform. nanotechnology means the intelligent use of common materials, for example for filtration and catalysis, materials which can allow us to circumvent the difficulties sometimes associated with the scarcity of rare elements. i would like to remind you that there is no basis for fears about the health consequences. the nanometric size of the particles imposes considerations on the risks related to a new toxicology, according to the available evidence there is a direct transparency of the cell membranes to these particles and therefore a possible attack of these particles on nucleic acids; i think it's only right that we put resources and energy into this. i would like to end by saying to the commissioner: we need to reform the european patent office, as it is currently lacking in proper oversight. parliament must be able to have its say, and the work can no longer be merely intergovernmental, it must become a work of the union. the general problem of the advancement and safeguarding of science is indeed a problem of the union!
in writing. the relationship between gender issues and trade is not only economic but also, unfortunately, reflects a culture in many parts of the world where women are still on the margins of society. the report states that the expansion of trade has facilitated and accelerated the entry of women into the modern industrial economy. let me make a point . the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the introduction of new technologies. in fact, more economic aid, but also more structural aid, is needed to support women in the world of work and enterprise by vigorously combating the pseudo-culture which sees women's social and economic rights, enshrined in the beijing platform for action, as being ignored or even labelled as obstacles. despite our vote in favour of the report, i would like to remind you that the task of the union's policy and action is to make bold proposals to tackle the negative aspects affecting large sections of women, especially in the poorest countries, but also in the member states of the union.
the agenda includes the discussion of the commission's statement on the asem summit (helsinki, 10 and 11 september 2006).
the debate is closed.
the next item is the commission statement on future action in the field of patents.
i would like to inform you that the deadline for tabling motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure is monday 9 october 2006 at 12.00 noon. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 october at 11 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
your comments will be forwarded to the conference of presidents.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was suspended at 4.00 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that as the european parliament we can only join in the unanimous condemnation of the nuclear tests which are allegedly being carried out by north korea. the european union and the entire international community have firmly condemned this situation and are committed to seeking a negotiated solution to this very serious situation. we must bring this dictatorship into line with the rules of international coexistence. the international community must nevertheless take the nonproliferation road seriously: i would like to say to mr brok that it is not a question of blaming anyone, but i think it is impossible not to recognize that the weakening of the npt, which is clearly also attributable to the failure of the 2005 conference, was a fatal mistake. i therefore believe that any emergency and prospective solution must be based on the resumption of negotiations for the revision of the non-proliferation treaty. this is a duty which the international community must carry out consistently, because only in this way will we have the strength to force the dictatorship in pyongyang - or in any other situation - to comply with this line of conduct. it must be said that the pre-emptive war on iraq has perversely convinced the dictatorships that possessing nuclear weapons is a kind of lifeline. it is our task to convince the world's rulers that this is not the case at all, even the rulers of authoritarian countries, otherwise we will not stop the rearmament. finally, mr high representative, i would like you to explain the differences between korea and iran, because too often the two issues are linked together, whereas i believe that there is even a possible solution in the differences.
mr president, in view of the very large number of speakers and people present at this debate, i shall try not to tire you any further. i agree with much of what has just been said on a very serious subject. i would like to thank mr frattini publicly for his efforts to inform our committee. i am speaking as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, since my group has already spoken through mrs sophie in 't veld. i would like to make two observations, the first of which concerns the political climate. it seems to me that in the next negotiations we will have to work more on the concept of reciprocity. i am talking about the reciprocity of the information we agree to give to the american services: what can we hope to get in the other direction? i am right to ask this because if it is true that we europeans need to be able to land in the united states, particularly for business, we should not underestimate the same need on the part of american companies because a lot of business is done in europe. we are therefore in a relatively balanced position. the second observation concerns the future. this interim agreement expires in july 2007, so preparations will have to be made for the next one, probably as early as the end of next winter. given the many questions raised by the shadow areas of this agreement, including - which i am a little concerned about - the interpretative letter to which sophie in 't veld referred earlier, does it seem unreasonable to you, mr vice-president, to hope to build some sort of compromise by the next us/europe summit, that is to say by april 2007? can we hope to build a kind of transatlantic schengen on the basis of which the united states on the one hand and the european union on the other could define a framework for addressing both the problem of security requirements and the problem of protecting citizens? we are now entitled to a new political basis, since we are going to start negotiating a new agreement in a few months.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think the most honest position we can take is to say that we have accepted blackmail, because unfortunately europe was being blackmailed by the united states in this matter, because the united states was already negotiating with individual member states and individual airlines, which is why we were virtually forced to conclude the agreement in question. this is - i repeat - the most politically correct position to be expressed by parliament. instead, it is as if we were defending an agreement which is actually damaging to european citizens: it is true that nothing has changed, but the agreement that the court of justice annulled was already a bad agreement. we should hand over to the us authorities 34 pieces of personal data, of which, according to the us testimony, only 7 or 8 are normally used. if that is the case, i don't see why we have to hand over all this information, including in the hands of american intelligence services - a novelty of this agreement - unless someone wants to argue that we can trust the cia. i do not think i speak in my own name, but i do think that this parliament has every reason not to trust the cia. what happened in europe is right in front of everyone's eyes: the european parliament even set up a special committee on the activities of the cia in europe and discussed what happened with swift, discovering that our bank accounts are being controlled by the americans. i am therefore perplexed and i continue to believe that we cannot trust the activities of the us intelligence agencies. i believe that the agreement in question was not negotiated on behalf of the european people. it is not the case that the commission has not been consulted on this matter. i think that the european parliament must be involved, as must the national parliaments, if this agreement is to be concluded with the rights of european citizens as a priority and, above all, with the protection of our personal data from being handed over to people who will certainly not make good use of them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question raised by mr barón crespo is not about the footwear sector, because it is an entire production system of the countries of the union that is being put into crisis, and not just today, by unfair competition, or rather by the financial greed, without restraint or restraint, of the so-called free market. a market which would be better defined as having no rules, which 'vampirizes' the existence of individuals, exploiting workers without regard to their age and without any social guarantees which are even remotely comparable to those in force in the countries of the union. a market and its shocking financial interests that impoverish companies and nations, aimed at the exponential enrichment of anonymous transnational corporations. the trade defence instruments such as anti-dumping, and therefore the maintenance of duties, are a first indispensable minimum instrument, but they are not fully satisfied, because unfair competition, which manages to flood the markets with products at enormously lower prices, is the result of enormous advantages in terms of factors of production. unfair competition can therefore be combated not only by means of defence: you can't try to win a war by fighting in the rear, and defense doesn't guarantee victory in war, as strategists before von clausewitz noted. if the union is to safeguard its production, it must therefore impose control measures on the products it intends to market on the internal market. it is not possible to counteract the price of production as long as the factors of production are so unbalanced in favour of asian industry, unbalanced also in labour costs but, for example, in administrative costs. at the beginning of the legislature i tabled an oral question under rule 108, with dozens of signatures in support from colleagues of various nationalities and political persuasions. it was obviously not included in the debate, perhaps because it was contrary to the interests of those who, in the name of profit, disregard the social interest and the deep meaning of work. i asked then, and i still ask, that in addition to restrictions on imports from countries which do not give guarantees in this respect, it is time to set up a control body which certifies how products imported into europe are made, from whatever non-european country they come from, and accordingly authorizes or prohibits trade in them. let's put a label on ethical, work ethics and environmental, more generally, production process ethics. karl popper, unquestionably a libertarian, has perfectly summed up how freedom cannot be considered... (speaker is interrupted by the president)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if this debate were limited to weighing the arguments for or against anti-dumping measures on leather footwear from china and vietnam, it would be really pointless. the european countries are divided on this issue because the interests of producers are opposed to those of distributors. it's a finding, not a cause for scandal. the real question is something else. is there a common european interest? what's the word? i believe that we can and must try to do so, because a divided europe is a weaker europe. but this can only be done by starting from a strategic and realistic view of europe's position in the market and in world trade and by remaining anchored to principles and figures. one of these principles is the protection of the european consumer: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a european principle. secondly, because it appears that a drastic reduction in the import costs of leather shoes was not accompanied by a reduction in retail prices at all. on the contrary, it is clear that there are position rentals in europe and that the danger also arises from these. the duties introduced for two years are a reasonable and compromise measure, which also establishes a correct method of respecting the interests of all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago a website linked to al qaeda declared holy war via the internet, calling on all muslim hackers in the world to bomb christian religious sites, and in particular the pope's. i think this is a very serious matter, which affects the fundamental principle of religious freedom. when you attack - above all at the top - the freedom to speak to the world through the media, when you target a religion, even an entire religious denomination, you attack one of the founding values of the european union: the principle of religious freedom. europe cannot remain silent. we are facing an escalation of measures and initiatives designed to attack the fundamental principles of our freedom. we must defend ourselves against such arrogance and such a totalitarian escalation of islamic fundamentalist extremism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, less than 24 hours ago i was in moscow and for a moment i was about to wear the european parliament's armband as i stood among the thousands of people who paid their last respects to anna politkovskaya. then i thought it would be an insult to the eyes of that woman, who couldn't see me, to see our emblem unveiled. the journalist anna politikovskaya told us what you didn't want to hear or see. on page 6 of today's le monde, we read of people arrested in moscow for saying: "georgians, we are with you"! georgians, not chechens. and the symbols worn by the detainees belong to the transnational radical party. we, as radicals and liberals, brought to this parliament the members of the chechen government in exile, who were coming to announce their non-violent choice. he didn't do anything. mr president, allow me to make a request. let's not call our buildings schuman or adenauer anymore, let's call them daladier and ollenhauer! we shall remove these names which we have no right to use... (the speaker is interrupted by the president).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ten billion euros is the amount that the italian government, when presenting the 2007 budget, concealed and cancelled from the debt. i am very pleased to thank you for giving me the floor so that i can inform the commission, through this parliament in particular, that the budget which the italian government has sent to it does not contain the 10 billion euro debt item. debt to whom? the italian pensioners who have worked in switzerland and are waiting for the payment of these ten billion euros, which the italian government has no intention of paying and - what is worse - which it has deleted from the budget. nobody knows that the italian state budget contains a debt of ten billion euros. i hope everyone knows that by now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we had stressed how untimely the statement by commission president barroso was, before the european parliament's vote on the eurlings report on turkey, when president barroso influenced the vote with his negative statements, aimed at excluding the prospects of turkey's accession. moreover, in view of the subsequent statements by commissioners rehn and verheugen, it seems that president barroso has been unpredictable, not only in relation to our parliament, but also in relation to his own commission. i fully support the statement by commissioner verheugen, who reiterated the objective of full membership of turkey in the european union, stressing that it is in our interest to have a turkey linked to the west, that is to say, democratic, with a state of law that respects human rights and protects the rights of minorities. that is the objective which i believe we must keep in mind: i would like to see a european union which is capable of promoting democracy and the rule of law and - and i would like to say this, mr president - a european union which should have had the courage to send representatives of parliament, the commission and the council to anna politikovskaya's funeral, which did not happen.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs elisabeth jeggle, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the protection and welfare of animals in the period 2006-2010 (2006/2046 (ini)) (a6-0290/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the report (a6-0272/2006) by mr jan christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the follow-up to the report on competition in the professions (2006/2137 (ini)).
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank dr ehler and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for this report. the commission welcomes your support for the work that needs to be done in the sector. your assessment of the importance of professional services to the eu economy is welcome and pertinent. reform by member states in this sector must be an integral part of delivering the lisbon and better regulation agendas. the commission fully supports your call for us all to work together constructively. we agree, too, that is important to learn from the experience of member states which have already taken steps to modernise. we think you are right to insist that member states eliminate special advertising and business structure restrictions and ensure fair and equal access to the professions, including eliminating geographic and demographic rules on entry. your call for more economic evidence is a fair one, but let us not forget that we are not proposing harmonisation of regulation in the professions. member states remain free to determine regulatory solutions based on national needs and circumstances. so our experience is that the best way to add value is through historical and international comparisons. and that is why we have commissioned another piece of external comparative research to look at the eu property services market – selling and buying property. that study will evaluate the impact of professional regulation on consumer choice, price, quality and other important indicators and, where feasible, the effect on jobs and growth. national authorities can also play an important role in evaluating the impact of reforms already undertaken. they, along with key stakeholders, such as professional bodies, are likewise well placed to evaluate the current state of regulation of the professions in their countries, explore what can be modernised and evaluate the impact of possible reforms on growth and jobs.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the professions are one of the areas of excellence in the provision of services. in most, but not all, european countries, the basic regulation is the codification of civil law contracts. this is obviously the case, especially in civil law countries. over time, the liberal professions have become the flower of civil society, but often also a place of preservation and closure, risking losing the quality of their work in order to maintain privileges. the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty and has been a party to the maastricht treaty. the european parliament, called upon to reflect on the issue of services in the internal market, is setting the stage, as it has never done this year, with tomorrow's vote on the report on competition in professional services, for finding a balance between opening up to competition on the one hand, and thus liberalizing access, with particular attention to young people at the end of the training period, and safeguarding the quality of service on the other, also to protect european citizens. it also lays the foundations for the definition of a regulatory framework of reference, identifying critical points to be removed, principles to be respected and consultation and verification procedures to be followed, a regulatory framework within which member states are free to take decisions, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity which has also been mentioned here before. the text is the result of the constructive work of the various political forces. i thank the rapporteur for his willingness to discuss and accept most of the amendments, many of which were tabled by us socialists. parliament is taking a clear position on services: the commission's intention is to gradually remove regulatory barriers and obstacles, not so much to pursue uncritical positions and a certain intolerance of the lax and rigid rules, or to dismantle the existing system, but to promote positive competition and openness to transparency and innovation, which are fundamental elements of sustainable economic growth and consumer protection. regulation and self-regulation in the field of professional services must be consistent with the lisbon strategy, in particular with the protection of the general interest, and must not produce discriminatory effects, with particular regard to discrimination on grounds of race, ethnic origin, nationality and gender. the report's recommendations are in this direction: promoting codes of conduct, with a decisive role for all stakeholders, including through representative associations; the importance attached to the removal of advertising bans as a genuine consumer information service, in particular with regard to the nature and cost of the service; supporting the creation of inter-professional and multidisciplinary services to facilitate innovation and competitiveness in an increasingly complex world; attention to creating conditions for smooth integration between university information systems and the exercise of professions. i hope that the amendment we are tabled in this house will be supported, which calls on the member states to move beyond the system of fixed or minimum tariffs and the prohibition of the negotiation of compensation linked to the result achieved, where they constitute obstacles to the quality of services and competition. i believe that there is still a long way to go and that the member states must find the best possible combination between respect for tradition and the innovative development of professional services, a fundamental factor in the development of the production system and of the social market economy which characterizes europe in a globalised world.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there has been discussion for a long time about whether or not it is appropriate to reform the professions in europe. there are conflicting views on this. some, including former competition commissioner mario monti, have long advocated liberalisation, which they say is needed in a wider reform framework to boost europe's economy. others, however, believe that the current system guarantees the citizen a certain level of quality in the service and that it should therefore be maintained. i personally recognise the importance of professional services as a driver of european economic growth and agree with the rapporteur that a reform process in the sector is needed to liberalise professional services. in fact, excessive regulation, rigid tariffs, few professional associations, and even fewer of them multidisciplinary, and restrictions in the field of advertising are hindering the revival of competitiveness in europe and often do not allow a high level of quality of services to be ensured. this is also seen in the context of greater attention to the protection of the citizens whom we are called upon to represent here: they are the users of professional services. in many territorial areas the interests of users are often sacrificed by the rents of position. oligopoly situations, when sometimes it is not even necessary to speak of monopoly, lead to an increase in the price of professional services and cause an additional cost which is inevitably passed on to consumers. i also agree with the rapporteur that it is appropriate to dispense with special regulations in the field of advertising, in order to enable traders to inform users about the services offered and the prices charged. on the other hand, i believe that a regulatory effort is obviously needed to strengthen the prohibitions on misleading advertising and to provide instruments for the practical protection of consumer users. in conclusion, in order to reconcile the need for greater competitiveness of professional services, through the liberalization of these services, with consumer protection, i find the rapporteur's proposal, which i welcome, on the adoption of codes of conduct and self-regulation very interesting. i therefore propose it, while congratulating mr ehler on his excellent work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report by mr daniel varela suanzes-carpegna, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on economic and trade relations between the eu and mercosur with a view to the conclusion of an interregional association agreement (2006/2035 (ini)) (a6-0302/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
the oral question to the commission by mr joseph daul and mr janusz wojciechowski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the situation in the sector of berries and cherries for processing (o-0085/2006 - b6-0435/2006) is therefore on the agenda.
i thank you for your information, commissioner. cherries are also my favorite fruit, so i can sleep better. i hope that applies to other colleagues as well. i have received motion for a resolution b6-0525/2006 the minutes shall be taken in accordance with rule 108 (5). the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i believe that today marks a significant milestone in the examination of a measure of great importance both to the commission and to parliament. the initiative in question, which was initially adopted in accordance with the formal rules of a procedure which excludes codecision, was subsequently politically reduced to extremely close cooperation with parliament. the trilogue method, which has enabled us to meet many times, is in fact a political solution: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs gál and mrs kovács, for their fruitful cooperation. we have reached agreement on a number of points and i hope that by the end of this year the few remaining issues will also have been resolved, so that in 2007 - as the european council and parliament have repeatedly said and as the commission itself hopes - the fundamental rights agency will finally be operational. what are the points which still need to be reflected on and deepened, even after the last trilogue, which was also extremely useful? these are the three basic questions which i have recently discussed with the ministers of the interior at the council meeting in luxembourg last week and recently at a meeting with the secretary-general of the council of europe. the first question concerns the relations between the future agency and the council of europe. it is the intention of the commission, my staff and - i am sure - the european parliament itself to avoid any overlap of competences between the new agency and the council of europe, which is already doing exemplary work in the protection and promotion of fundamental rights. i believe that it is possible to pursue the common objective of cooperation between the agency on the one hand and the council of europe on the other, each within its own responsibilities. the agency's primary task is to supervise, monitor and collect data on compliance with community legislation, without going beyond this area of competence. first point then: the council of europe is not a political body, but a political body. the second point concerns the geographical scope of the agency's powers and responsibilities. you will all remember that there was an original position which limited the geographical scope to the member states of the union alone. the need to extend the scope of responsibilities to the applicant countries, countries which are already, albeit to varying degrees, on the way to accession to the european union, was obvious from the outset. the serious problem of the countries in the pre-accession phase, which we call potential candidate countries, has also been raised. this is an extremely important concept, because it refers to a key geographical area for europe: the western balkans. these are countries which are negotiating, in some cases, or applying, in other cases, association and stabilisation agreements with the european union, which touch on, among other things, extremely sensitive matters as regards the protection of fundamental rights. hence the proposal, supported by the council and contained in the text under discussion today, to extend the scope of application to these countries. in this connection, some member states have raised reservations and the council of europe has expressed strong fears, which i have to report. i believe, however, that an appropriate compromise solution can be found, one which does not entirely exclude the prospect of these countries also coming under the agency's jurisdiction. a compromise solution which perhaps takes into account the fact that the agency in question, which will already have all the current responsibilities of the vienna observatory, and therefore racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism, to which new responsibilities will be added, could better concentrate, at least at the outset, on the member states of the european union and the candidate countries. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. this is a point on which there is still room for reflection. the third and final point concerns the inclusion of the so-called 'third pillar' subjects: judicial and police cooperation. the commission - and i personally - have been in favour from the outset of the strategy, which this parliament also considers to be the best, of including this matter in the remit of the agency in question. i think it would be rather difficult to explain to the citizens of europe that we are about to set up an agency to promote and protect fundamental rights, excluding from the scope of these powers the aspects of police cooperation and judicial activity, in respect of which there is an objective need to verify the full and absolute respect of the fundamental rights, for example, of an accused or on trial person. there is also, as you know, a legal basis problem, which i will not deal with at this stage, but for which there is a political motivation. if this agency is to be useful to the citizens, it must include, in some way, the subjects which fall within the scope of the 'third pillar'. it will be up to us to find an acceptable formula, but i do not think it will be to postpone the decision on whether or not to include matters relating to the third pillar until a later stage than the establishment of the agency. to postpone the decision would be to postpone the decision, and that would be wrong in my view. as you know, within the council, some of the major countries of the european union are showing a certain reluctance to accept this inclusion, raising internal constitutional problems. i personally believe that these problems can be overcome and that parliament can play a very important political role in this area. i hope that the council will accept a compromise text which, although not formally adopted in codecision, will represent a joint effort by parliament, the council and the commission. this is perhaps the first time, ladies and gentlemen, that we have, by common political will, abandoned the application of rules which do not allow for the formal codecision procedure, and have in fact reached a joint decision by political means. the agency, which would certainly have a stronger foundation if it had this result behind it, would also be a good example for many other areas, which unfortunately still do not have the codecision procedure.
i believe that it is right to extend the powers and activities of the european observatory on racism and xenophobia. the figures for the last few years are worrying: the report also calls for the establishment of a european drug control system. the establishment of the agency in question can therefore help not only to monitor these serious phenomena but also to combat them vigorously. it is strange that the european people's party, as mr pirker has said, should be concerned about bureaucracy and increased costs when it comes to defending fundamental rights. the value of human rights cannot be economically quantified. the protection of fundamental rights is an identity element, which represents the way, perhaps the only way, to make europe strong. i would have expected an attack on the agencies also in relation to frontex - which did not happen - an agency that this year has not performed any function, nor has it contributed to improving the lives of the citizens of the european union. i believe that the work and the future of the fundamental rights agency must be strongly defended. the problem of duplicates does not exist, and even if we did create one, i would not be concerned about it, because i firmly believe that the existence of more agencies, more structures, more institutions dealing with the defence of human rights can only contribute to improving the lives of european citizens. i am concerned about the absence of the council: the minister left the chamber yesterday and today there is an important summit. i think, however, that in a debate of this kind, in which two different positions - ours, that of parliament, and that of the council - are being compared, it would have been desirable to have at least representatives of the council in this house. i think it is good that parliament has a strong role to play in the establishment of the fundamental rights agency, and i also think it is good that mrs gál and mr kovács and commissioner frattini have taken this action, and that he has reiterated his favourable position in this house. but we also need to build a strong involvement of ngos and european civil society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. the proposal for a council decision to extend the powers of the existing european monitoring centre for racism is an important step in the right direction. at a difficult historical moment, when the needs of global security and stability are at odds with the rights of citizens and when discrimination in the western world is still a major source of friction between communities, ethnic groups, religions and disadvantaged groups, it is essential to monitor these phenomena through a body with a strong and broad mandate. i therefore welcome the proposal to extend the powers of the new human rights agency to the 'third pillar' and thus to intergovernmental cooperation, in the areas of police, justice and immigration and terrorism, as these areas are increasingly integrated into the daily lives of citizens and consequently the respect of the fundamental rights enshrined in our treaties. i also share the approach of this parliament to promote dialogue with civil society and to work with all those entities, including and especially non-governmental organisations, which at local, national and european level make a substantial contribution to improving the human rights situation in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am used to seeing members of the european parliament leave the chamber when i begin to speak. i thank those who remain to hear this important statement on the report on the establishment of the fundamental rights agency. i voted for referral back to committee, but i would like to say that pensioners' right to receive a pension is one of the fundamental rights. the socialist-communist government, currently in power in italy and led by president prodi, is cutting the pensions of 500,000 italian citizens who have worked abroad in switzerland by two thirds of what they are currently receiving. it's like we're getting a third of the compensation we've collected so far. this is not the way to treat pensioners, who have the right to live and to have a secure pension. what security is there for those who find out at the beginning of the year that their pension has been reduced by as much as 66%? shame on the centre-left prodi government in italy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the resolution on the future of patents because i believe that the european parliament should have sent a clear message that we are calling for community rules on european patents. the commission's middle way is to add some european elements to a system which is and will remain essentially intergovernmental. the european patent office has already demonstrated its capacity to cause harm in the area of software patentability. i hope that the commission, instead of exploring the hybrid route it proposes, will take up the idea of the community patent with courage, even against the trend towards renationalisation which is now prevailing in all areas of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted for the jeggle report with conviction and reason because i believe that it is one of the initiatives to take forward the debate on the subject of animal research, namely to limit research on live animals as much as possible. i think that every opportunity should be taken to do so, and we have done so in this own-initiative report. i am aware that the legal basis for other areas is not the most obvious but i still think we have made a step forward and i hope that others will follow in this direction.
mr president, without prejudice to the positions of those who are for or against nuclear power stations, as my colleague has asked, i think it is appropriate to discuss these accidents, whether they are serious or not.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. i think the big mystery is this huge technical delay in preparing the sis. it would seem to be politically motivated by the fact that the sis, as a tool for ensuring free movement, is in danger of becoming increasingly a tool for security purposes, which are of course legitimate. i think, however, that the mark is being crossed if - as the german government apparently wants to do - these databases are to be made accessible to the secret services as well. this and the increasing use of biometrics are likely to be the result of, let us say, technically necessary, closure policies on free movement and immigration. i therefore believe that the reason for these technical delays can only be an eminently political one.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that behind a laudable objective, that of free movement of citizens of the countries of the union and the abolition of internal frontiers, there is an unacceptable instrument. the second generation schengen information system introduces new forms of social control and the excessive use of biometric data is actually undermining the protection of personal data. we are concerned that this data has been misused in recent times, in a real form of control. as we have said many times, we believe it is unacceptable that this data should end up in the hands of the secret services. we are concerned that an administrative function is being transformed into a tool of police control. while we appreciate the praiseworthy work of mr coelho, our group will therefore vote against it, because we believe that instead of discussing the free movement of citizens of the union, we are discussing total control over them.
i am happy to support mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou's report, albeit with a little bitterness, since this weekend we have had yet another tragic news concerning the world of women, namely the stoning of a woman in baghdad on saturday 21 october. i think everyone is aware that only through equal dignity for women around the world can there be a change even within the great problems that the world is facing today. it is in this spirit and with this conviction, that is, with the conviction of the value and role that women can play today and tomorrow in enabling this world to move towards a solution of peaceful coexistence, that i have appreciated the work done by my colleague, mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, in which she takes into account above all the fact that women are somewhat special migrants. we wish it wasn't, but it is. in a world where the division is still so clear - and for much of the world it is still a division of rights and duties - i believe that treating migrant women and men equally would probably be wrong, as it is always wrong to treat different situations equally. the union must therefore pay particular attention to female immigration, taking account of aspects which are not characteristic of male immigration, and i believe that this attention can be found in the report by mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, which i therefore intend to support.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work, and in particular on her highlighting important priorities for ensuring immigration as a means of achieving a two-way integration, and hence social, linguistic and cultural integration, that is, integration based on mutual respect for rights and duties. among the first rights to be guaranteed to migrant women is the prevention and combating of crimes against honour, forced marriages, genital mutilation or any other form of violent coercion and exploitation. i have tabled an amendment on behalf of my group in this connection, which stresses the need for comprehensive information campaigns directed specifically at migrant women, so that they can be informed of their rights and of the structures to which they can turn in case of need. finally, the european union must finally adopt specific provisions so as to encourage member states to draw up laws explicitly prohibiting some of the crimes and issues we have already discussed. in conclusion, i would like to thank commissioner frattini for the commitment he has underlined again this evening, a commitment which the commission intends to make in tackling these problems.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou for her sensitivity and for her positive proposals on the role and status of immigrants in the european union, both legal and illegal. these are migrant women who are discriminated against in employment, violated in body and mind, used as sex trafficking goods, deprived of their freedom and passport, blackmailed by patriarchal practices and killed for honor killings. i would like to remind all of us, however, that in reality these women are being used and exploited by european families and european entrepreneurs. very often they are alone, with the pain of having left their children in the places of their birth. they work as caregivers, relieving the pains and loneliness of the elderly and infirm, and they have no security. i think we have to do a lot about that. these women represent a large percentage of the immigrant force and a great resource for european countries. they are not just victims, but they are women of all kinds who, over the years, have organized themselves into associations, sought relationships and networked with indigenous women. they are demanding access to information, health services and housing. they want to be the protagonists of their lives, and we have to help them. that is why we must ensure that the fight against discrimination is mainstreamed and that the guidelines that the european union has set itself - as mr frattini also said - are applied in every member state, from reception to active citizenship. the experiences of migrant women and their criticism of inequality help to chart the way to the democracy of not many differences.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i share the report by mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou and i agree with her that the implementation of the family reunification directive in the union is unsatisfactory and that the directive needs to be amended in order to reduce the time taken for the spouse, almost always the wife, to acquire an autonomous status and to guarantee that she retains her status in the event of separation, divorce and death. i would also stress the importance of certain instruments of community action, in particular the daphne programme, because they fill in the gaps in national policies, which are too often lacking in terms of the gender dimension both in terms of policy content and in the collection of data. the report also calls for the risk of female genital mutilation to be included as a reason for seeking asylum. i agree, but i think it is time to include other factors of repression of women's sexuality, such as homosexuality and so-called adulterous behaviour, in the grounds for asylum, for countries where such behaviour is severely sanctioned. i am thinking in this connection of the stoning in iran.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the hard work of the rapporteur has already produced remarkable results at the first reading. however, the resources allocated to life+ for the period 2007-2013 are not sufficient to meet the environmental challenges of the coming years and thus risk undermining the positive achievements already made. it is therefore particularly important to support amendment no 3 by the rapporteur in order to be able to ensure more adequate funding at least after the 2008-2009 revision of the financial framework, in order to adapt life to the necessary changes and to ensure a high level of community co-financing. i would also like to stress the importance of the use of european environmental funds, which must not be used to make up for the financial deficits of the member states - it has been pointed out on several occasions that they are often used to pay civil servants - but to implement european projects that give substance to the sustainable development strategy of gothenburg. finally, i welcome the fact that the new life+ programming is paying greater attention to the problem of energy efficiency, providing financial support for new technologies, and i agree with the rapporteur on the need to involve civil society more in the preparation of both multiannual and annual national programmes.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive areas.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate my colleague mr papadimoulis on his excellent work. the report translates into operational terms what is already provided for in the report on the solidarity fund, which is the legal and financial basis for civil protection operations. the european union now has the financial means and new knowledge based on the experience of the community civil protection mechanism, which was set up in 2001, which will make it possible to improve the operation and effectiveness of the instrument. it is true that the emergency response to a disaster must be first and foremost at local level, with prevention and reconstruction actions, but it is also true that there is a need for crisis management interventions, which can and must be coordinated at european level, if we are to achieve significant economies of scale and, above all, greater efficiency. moreover, when the scale of a disaster exceeds local or even national response capacities, it would be desirable to be able to provide additional assistance quickly from other countries, using their expertise and resources. it should be borne in mind that in many cases disasters of particular importance have cross-border effects, affecting the territories of neighbouring countries. i also agree with the rapporteur that proper and appropriate land use planning and disaster prevention and management are important for risk reduction. there is a need to strengthen the european civil protection system so that it can provide coordinated responses to emergencies and to contribute to a european union that can instill confidence and security in its citizens. i believe that we must be able to meet these legitimate expectations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. the written declaration (article 142)
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights on the council's common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european order for payment procedure (07535/3/2006 - c6-0227/2006 - 2004/0055 (cod)) (rapporteur: arlene mccarthy) (a6-0316/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, more than 2500 tanks were used against an unarmed people, 75,000 red army soldiers, thousands of victims, more than 2000 shot by the kadir government installed by the soviets, 12,000 prisoners sent to the gulag, 200,000 refugees: these are some of the terrifying figures that sum up the tragedy of a nation, but also the beginning of the end of a party and a power that dominated, following the ignominious and unfortunate yalta agreements, half of our continent. the first mentions were made in berlin in 1953; then the cry of freedom in poznań, poland, in 1956. stalin had been dead for three years but his political heirs, despite khrushchev's report to the 20th congress of the communist party of the soviet union in february 1956, which denounced the countless crimes of the georgian dictator, used repressive and criminal methods, fearing that power would slip out of their hands in hungary. the uprising dissolved into an immense tragedy. nagy's reformist government was swept away and he was assassinated. it was only with the collapse of soviet communism that the victims of those years, who were called "lazy" by the hungarian communist leaders and the kominform, could finally be rehabilitated, but they were and are the symbol of human dignity, oppressed by one of the most brutal and violent dictatorships in history. it is an immense tragedy which should remind us today of the negativity of an ideology and a political practice which have caused millions of victims in the regions of the world where they have established their regime. today, some of those who backed the tank and gun reasons in those years are self-critical and, as always, talk about mistakes. but they fail to speak of the rejection of those ideas which led and lead inexorably to dictatorship and oppression. only the rejection and condemnation of these ideas, which are already frank, can guarantee us a future of freedom. the european union is a stronghold against any attempt to undermine the dignity of men and peoples. we also recall that there are still regimes which exercise a tight control over the lives of their citizens and which pose a threat to free peoples: from north korea to iran to cuba, the many dictatorships that exist in the world, but we are also reminded of the dangers of new fundamentalisms. the west must never again choose silence and europe must be the guarantor of freedom and justice.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the celebrations of the 50th anniversary of the anti-communist uprising highlight the crisis in the socialist government in gyurcsany. the new hungarian elite has recovered the '56 uprising and the symbols of communism to justify liberalism. the strategy aims to give legitimacy to the current government, given its membership of the communist intelligentsia, and to reassure a population that, socially, is beginning to suffer seriously from the effects of liberalism. communism means, in fact, "false social alibis for the exploitation of man", as china still demonstrates today. hungary has its place in the european union because it brings to its experience of resistance to totalitarianism its new political sensibilities and, as in 1956, its popular capacity to generate hope. today, far-right protests against prime minister gyurcsany, who admitted lying about the state of the economy to win last april's election, saw 100,000 people marching in budapest for the 50th anniversary. protesters and police have been clashing for hours with arrests and injuries. supporters of the main right-wing opposition party claim for themselves the role of true heirs of '56. i do not think that we are trying to repeat history, which is known to everyone or is not known to the european socialists and communists. it is too easy to appeal to emotion by evoking the corpses of men, women and children who fell under the blows of the soviet union in the name of communism. the italian communists, hungary and the communist party leaders sided with the ussr against the hungarian rebels. secretary togliatti and later longo repeatedly declared, even in the following years, their solidarity with the re-establishment of internationalist justice. the current president of the italian republic, giorgio napolitano, condemned the rioters in the newspaper "l'unità" as thugs and despicable provocateurs. fifty years later, in his autobiography, he does not portray but merely explains what is known to all, namely that in those years the cp and all european socialism were inseparable from the fate of the socialist camp, led by the ussr. we must not condemn the imperial act of the ussr, but we must strongly condemn those who then enthusiastically chose to support that invasion in the name of communist and socialist internationalism.
i speak with great pride on behalf of nuovo psi, a stubborn bunch of italian socialists who have always chosen the path of identity and have sent back to the sender the offers of those, on the right and on the left, who called for desisting. this thread of autonomy, which has been running to this day, had its crucial moment in 1956: the psi, with pietro nenni, strongly condemned the violent attack by the communists who had drowned in blood the aspirations of the hungarian people and massacred the insurgents. it was the national uprising of a proud people who were struggling not only against the physical and moral suffering inflicted by communism, but also against the political and cultural grey that had stifled the tradition, the identity, the patriotism of the hungarian people. as the misfortunes of the following years proved, talk of communism and freedom has always been a stark oxymoron: the socialists of the npsi will never tire of reiterating this truth, denied for too long in italy by the pci. so honor the 5,000 hungarian martyrs who did not bow to oppression and fought to the death to assert their right to a better future, to a prospect of freedom, democracy and peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate has returned to the issues of prevention, the quality of health care, the urgency of research and the right to dignity and to work. these are issues that form an integral part of the lisbon strategy. the political objective of parliament is therefore to signal the urgency of coordinated action, which the commission must carry out by assuming a stronger and more visible leadership role vis-à-vis the member states. it is not enough to set targets for 2008, but we must monitor them, make corrections and know how far we are progressing. there are no prizes for the virtuous countries in this area, nor are there any sanctions for those who do not make progress. i therefore propose that the commissioners introduce a sort of black list, as we have already done for airlines which do not guarantee safety, for national situations which show no progress. we use the power of public opinion, allied with the scientific community, to support community policies.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we already appreciated the excellent work of our rapporteur a year ago at the first reading, and i would like to congratulate her again today on her most recent work. in addition, last september, my colleague mrs hieronymi, myself and other members of the european parliament discussed these issues with members of the italian government and with industry during a long and interesting debate in the context of the 57th edition of the prestigious venice film festival. we know there's been a delay. the european parliament, with a great sense of responsibility, has acted with great speed and today brings to the attention of the house the final text of the media programme, which has naturally been considerably improved, making resources more accessible to potential beneficiaries, strengthening cooperation with other community programmes in the field of education, training and research, and facilitating access to credit for the audiovisual industry in order to remedy the chronic undercapitalisation of the sector. the use of new technologies is also an essential step towards cost rationalisation and the resulting competitiveness. i therefore propose that the commission should undertake an evaluation of the pilot projects carried out and their dissemination if successful experiences are found. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate the proposal i made in this very house last year on the report on the preservation of the cinematographic heritage, namely to set up a european thematic film library which would ensure a careful selection of cinematographic works relating to historical events and events relating to the evolution of the community project.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. the european cultural heritage is one of the greatest assets of our union and i am grateful to the three institutions for the efforts they have made so far to protect and enhance it. the great value of the culture programme, which i hope will be preserved in the next programming period, lies not only in the promotion of the mobility of people and works in the sector within the community, but also and above all in the great opportunity it represents for the small operators and the small communities of the territory to keep their history and their identity alive. the promotion of individual cultures at local level is an enormous asset both for the european union as a whole, whose unity and strength are based on the diversity of its territory, and for the economy of the social fabric and of territorial realities at all levels. i therefore fully support the council's proposal to strike a balance between small and large-scale projects, to facilitate access to the programme for small operators and to allocate half of the available funds to this type of action.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with reference to the report by mr isler béguin on the financial instrument for the environment, i would like to express my extreme concern about the environment of pensioners in italy. i voted in favour of the report, but i would have voted much more willingly if this directive had not only protected the environment but also protected italian pensioners. i take this opportunity to protest against the centre-left government of president prodi, which is introducing an amendment to article 85 (6) of the finance act, which deprives 500,000 italian workers who have worked in switzerland of three quarters of the pension to which they are entitled under the judgments of the court of cassation. it is not a good environment to deprive pensioners of their right to a fair pension.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr romagnoli for his technical support so that i can present this statement of vote on the report by mrs graça moura establishing the culture programme. i voted in favour, hoping for the future of this european union, but i would like to stress that there is no culture in italy if the socialist-communist government of president prodi has decided, by means of article 85 (6) of the finance act, to take a part of the pension of 500,000 italian pensioners who have worked in switzerland, ignoring the judgment of the court of cassation, according to which these same pensioners would be entitled to receive a pension four times higher. this is not fair and i hope that 'culture' also means respect for the rights of pensioners.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr papadimoulis' report is slightly different from the previous ones, because it deals with the establishment of the community civil protection mechanism. i voted in favour of this report, although i would have preferred that it had not only provided for civil protection but also for the protection of pensioners. i am referring to italian pensioners, who must be protected by the president of the italian council, mr prodi, and his socialist-communist majority, who have decided, by article 85 (6) of the finance act, to deprive 500,000 italian pensioners who have worked in switzerland of as much as three quarters of their pension. this decision violates the judgments of the court of cassation which obliges the italian government to pay the right pension to these pensioners.
in writing. as is well known, civil protection in the event of natural disasters in europe is a matter for the member states. unfortunately, some of them have been subject to worrying delays and lack of response, due to a lack of coordination. it is for this reason that i have been advocating for years the establishment of a european civil protection agency, whose purpose is to harmonize the different national laws and which is competent not only for the prevention and forecasting of risk but also for emergency management. it is interesting to note that in the proposal for a council regulation establishing a rapid response and preparedness instrument for major emergencies and in the proposal for a decision establishing a community civil protection mechanism, the set of activities aimed at studying and determining the causes of disasters, identifying risks and identifying the most vulnerable areas of the territory subject to such risks, in other words 'forecasting', is not fully taken into account, although it is a fundamental activity for dealing effectively with natural disasters. this agency, modelled on the federal emergency management agency in the united states, should not only repair the damage caused by natural disasters but also, and above all, finance measures to eliminate or reduce the causes of disasters in a preventive manner.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, can there be any transparency in europe when in one of the 25 member states, namely italy, 500,000 pensioners who have worked in switzerland and returned to italy are paid pensions equal to 25 per cent of the amount paid to italian workers working in italy? it is true that switzerland is not yet part of the european union, but it is part of the european economic area. it would be good if a member state of the european union treated its own citizens who have worked abroad and are entitled to the same pension as its own citizens who are resident in the country in question fairly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted against the kratsa-tsagaropoulou report because i believe that legal and illegal immigration are being mixed up here, that the two are not being separated sufficiently and that this is, in the end, a call for illegal immigration. i think that's politically incorrect. it's the wrong signal. we should better organise and regulate legal immigration and fight illegal immigration at all costs. finally, i believe that we in the developing countries should address the problems on the ground and engage here much more directly than we have done so far in order to resolve difficulties of a human, economic, social and religious nature.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wish you a good appetite, because i believe this is the last statement of vote for today. i voted in favour of the kratsa-tsagaropoulou report on the role and position of immigrant women in the european union. i would have preferred that the report also had something to say about the situation of the approximately 260,000 italian women who have emigrated to switzerland to work and support their families and who, when they returned to italy, received a pension equal to 25 per cent of the amount they would have received if they had worked under the same conditions in italy, despite the reciprocity treaty between italy and switzerland. i think it is not right to treat women in general in this way and especially elderly and retired women. long live the pensioners, long live the pensioners!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteurs elles and grech and i greet the commissioner and all the members. i would like to make two very brief remarks. the first concerns what mr guy-quint said. those who wanted proof that the financial perspective 2007-13 was inadequate were served. the first budget of the new financial framework clearly shows that the envelope is too narrow. the rapporteur has made a number of deadly leaps, some of which have been rightly corrected by the political groups, but he has been unable to do anything about the narrow limits of the multiannual financial framework. after this first test it should be clear, even to those who say that 1% of gross national income is enough to feed the community budget, that a change is needed, a mid-term review. i therefore call on parliament to start preparing for this challenge today. the second reflection will be telegraphic. mr elles was right to propose a spending control operation, which we welcomed and supported. it is right to give maximum transparency, but it is also right not to compromise the fundamental policies of the european union.
the commission's vice-president mr president, the commission currently receives fewer complaints about over-reservation than before the increase in compensation rates by regulation no 261/2004. at present, only 8% of complaints received by the commission concerning air passenger rights relate to cases of overbooking or denied boarding, while 60% relate to delays or cancellations. this trend is due, among other things, to the development of low-cost airlines and the increasing use of charter airlines, which do not tend to integrate overbooking into their mode of operation. since the entry into force of this regulation, airlines have been more flexible in seeking volunteers who agree to give up their reservation in exchange for certain agreed benefits. this practice encourages airlines to immediately resolve the problem on the spot. that said, i would like to point out to mr evans that, in accordance with article 17 of the regulation, the commission will present a report to parliament and the council at the beginning of 2007 on the operation and application of this regulation. this communication will be based on a study carried out by an external consultant. a call for tenders has been published for the recruitment of this external consultant. overbooking is one of the points which will be dealt with in this study and the commission will of course wait until it has seen the results of the study before deciding whether or not to adapt the legislation. mr president, if there is one tangible effect of these new regulations on passenger rights, it is the reduction in overbooking, which in some cases - it must be admitted - has become a very harmful habit for passengers.
the commission's vice-president mr titley, it is absolutely essential that we ensure that these passenger rights are respected. i should also say that at the moment i am trying to call on all airports to display passenger rights, so that it is very clear that all passengers must be informed that they cannot be overbooked without being offered in return a significant compensation, as required by the regulation. the three keywords in this area are information, investigation and audit, as i have already indicated. secondly, we shall see whether there is any need to impose sanctions or, at any rate, to take states to the court of justice who have not really monitored the application of these passenger rights. there you go, mr titley. i thank you for this question, which reminds us of the importance of applying european law.
the commission's vice-president just a word to mr rack that we receive many complaints about unnecessary delays and that we wanted to carry out this audit precisely to determine exactly how we can get better enforcement of the new passenger rights. you're right, i know. as a european citizen, you have the right to demand that you be treated properly as an air passenger and tomorrow as a rail passenger. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i can confirm that complaints about overbooking have decreased. in 2001, it was over 16%, and today it is 7%. however, i am as convinced as you are that the victims of this practice should turn to the body responsible for examining complaints in each member state. and then, as i said, this audit will give us a much more complete picture of these problems. this will enable us to know which carriers are accustomed to this practice and which ones deserve a serious call to order.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the communication which the european commission adopted on my proposal last july deals with the general theme of a european strategy for the protection of children's rights. it is clear that this european strategy pays particular attention to the danger that young people and very young people may be victims of the actions of paedophile criminals using the internet. we support very strong action for prevention. in particular, we are in favour of the creation of an international database which will be able to collect all the main data on criminals and those who operate through the internet for the purpose of paedophilia, so that the dissemination of images which affect young people and very young people, obviously for reasons of sexual exploitation, can be blocked in the first place, and the perpetrators, that is, those who use the internet for such purposes, can be prevented and punished. we have also decided to finance a programme called 'safer internet', which consists of a european network of telephone lines and, above all, of internet communications, designed to enable internet users to cooperate with the police. through this safer internet system, called safer internet plus, internet users will be able to report to the police authorities or to internet service providers any dangerous visits, and thus the presence of those who use the internet for pornographic purposes. we have also recently adopted a communication on trafficking in human beings, which includes a chapter specifically devoted to children and violence against them. i am thinking of the application of the framework decision to combat the sexual exploitation of minors and children and child pornography. i believe that within the framework of the implementation of this framework decision, measures can be found to further strengthen the legislative framework and to deal even more severely with the sexual exploitation of children via the internet. i shall be referring to this subject before the end of the year in a communication from the commission. finally, the general theme of cybercrime will be addressed early next year with a strategy paper containing a chapter specifically devoted to the protection of children. mr ebner will know that we have refinanced the daphne programme. the daphne ii programme is dedicated to european initiatives against violence against children but also against women and will have a budget of eur 50 million for the new period of operation. through this system we plan to disseminate best practices in preventing violence against children and to implement communication campaigns aimed at promoting a more responsible use of the internet by young people and very young people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank commissioner frattini for his very comprehensive reply. i must say that his work in this area is very extensive and i believe that he will be able to bring the peace and the protection that we want for children. i hope that this programme and its activities will bear fruit and i hope that parliament will give its full support to its work.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the 2004 annual report on anti-dumping, anti-subsidy and safeguard measures taken by third countries against the community, presented by the commission's services, has revealed a fact which has caused a great deal of concern in our committee. it shows an abnormal increase in cases of trade defence, both by traditional users of such measures and by the more recently developed wto member states. in many cases, wto rules and case law have been partially or totally disregarded, causing injury to the community industry. the main problems for the developed countries, with the united states at the head, are the unilateral application of wto rules, which are not always followed. for some emerging countries, the application of countervailing duties is not intended to combat illegal practices but to provide local industries with additional protection against european imports. in many cases, the investigative standards are low and are such as to raise more than one doubt about their full compliance with wto rules. the commission report lists some of these significant cases, namely the 'zeroing' case with the usa, the indian anti-dumping cases, the south american and australian agricultural cases and, in general, the extensive and incorrect use of safeguards. in many of the cases brought against the european community, the latter succeeds in obtaining adequate satisfaction for the settlement of disputes in the wto. however, such success is often too late and the damage to european industry is irreparable. in view of the picture presented to us by the executive committee in its report, the committee on international trade could have suggested, in response to a reaction of instinct, that the same methodology and the same behaviour should be adopted by trading partners who are in breach of anti-dumping, anti-subsidy and safeguard rules, but it has not done so. we are convinced that respect for the rules of international trade, established in a multilateral framework, is a basic principle for economic growth and, more generally, for peaceful coexistence between nations. two wrongs never make a right. in this context, we would like to stress that the rules must be applied and that failure to apply them must be met with sanctions that guarantee the right within a short time. if there are no short-term measures, the damage is irreparable. in defence of legality and of the part of european industry which feels unfairly affected by unlawful measures, we call on the commission to pursue decisively the negotiations in the wto, aimed at making the application of trade defence measures by other wto members less arbitrary, by promoting action to make the application of the wto dispute settlement body's decisions faster and more effective. these points should be included in the doha development agenda should these negotiations - as we hope - be resumed. we therefore call on the commission to give due weight to this matter in the context of the initiatives to increase the external competitiveness of european industry which were recently announced by commissioner mandelson before the committee on international trade. finally, we recommend that the commission refrain from granting preferential treatment or favourable treatment to those trading partners who, repeatedly and with serious economic repercussions for european industry, do not act in line with wto rules and jurisprudence. the committee on international trade is of the opinion that in the face of serious situations one cannot remain completely passive. if we are to win the support of the public for the new rules of international trade, we must work for greater transparency, consistency and respect for the law by all actors, by implementing measures ranging from border controls to the application of common sanctions against those who trade in counterfeit or otherwise illegal goods on european territory. we cannot but link the conclusions of this report to the commission's recent initiative for a reform of the european community's anti-dumping and anti-subsidy policy, aimed at limiting the use of these instruments by the commission in the context of a more careful and wider consideration of the community interest.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the group of the greens/european free alliance supports the process which has begun in spain to defeat the terrorism of eta once and for all and to find a solution to the basque conflict. at the same time, we reiterate our profound solidarity and respect for all the victims of terrorism. we support the process because it rejects violence, is open to all options for the final solution, is not exclusive and also holds the basque political parties and basque society in general responsible for putting an end to the so-called basque conflict. debating this issue in the european parliament does not mean interfering in the politics of a member state, it is simply a matter of pushing forward a process already under way and reaffirming that terrorism and violence affect all europeans. as difficult as this process is and as uncertain as it is, we support and will support those who have decided to take the risk of taking a different path from that of the aznar government, which, as is evident, has not achieved definitive results. as gandhi's phrase said, "there are no roads to peace, peace is the way". we believe that it is appropriate to discuss this process here and we have always been in favour of this, even when it was the pp who, in a harsh and insistent manner, wanted to bring this conflict to the european parliament in order to obtain support for its policy, a policy which we have always considered to be wrong, because it was based on the idea that, in order to defeat terrorism, it was necessary to divide basque society, rather than contribute to its unification. the basques and most spaniards are tired of this policy of confrontation. we believe that the keys to the success of this process are dialogue, non-violence and respect for the right to decide of the citizens of the basque country. with these objectives in mind, we will accompany this process as friends and as firm allies in the fight against terrorism, against all forms of terrorism. (applause from the left)
the lahti council has shown with striking clarity that action on the international scene and domestic policy choices are increasingly closely linked. we believe that support for democratic russia and those who, like anna politkovskaya, fought and are fighting against the authoritarian drift of the putin regime is perfectly consistent with the attempt to ensure the energy supply of our continent, compliance with the kyoto protocol and the development of energy efficiency and renewable energies. the european union must not allow the soviet union to continue to be a party to the war in chechnya. our group congratulates president borrell on this, but we also warmly express our disagreement with him and the finnish government for their clear support for the revival of nuclear energy. whether we like it or not - and the iranian case clearly demonstrates this - there is a clear link between the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the alleged peaceful use of nuclear energy. there must therefore be no trade-off between rights and energy. events in ukraine and more recently in georgia show that appeasement does not increase putin's credibility, but only his determination to act in the exclusive interest of his power group. we have already lost a lot of valuable time on this issue, so we must not miss the important opportunity presented by the partnership agreement which expires at the end of the year. we are already saying that we will be completely opposed to any attempt to remove conditionalities and, in particular, the reference to the human rights clause from this agreement. we must develop a strategy that aims to reduce unsustainable consumption and the terrible inefficiencies in transport, construction and electricity systems, and that also emphasizes the excellence of our companies in the development of renewable energy. this is the best way to reduce our dependence and to support peace, disarmament and democracy. i would also like to say a few words about another very important subject that has been discussed, namely immigration. i think the blockage in this respect is in the council and between the member states, because they have not been able to deal with the issue of regulating legal immigration, to negotiate and finance at european level serious cooperation agreements that can really help developing countries not to be obliged to send their best forces to our countries, and to ensure that the policies of the european union, especially in the field of fisheries and agriculture, do not have a devastating effect, which only pushes more people onto those boats along the coasts of their countries and our countries. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard many words supported by the pathos of human rights, coming also from the benches of those parties which for decades were silent when the people in the east were in revolt in berlin, budapest and so on. at that time europe was silent and these parties were silent, while now they are all supporters of human rights and put putin's russia in the dock. if it is true, and i am absolutely convinced that it is true, that human rights must not be exchanged for economic interests, it is equally true that our attention and our firm defence of the values on which europe is based and which are today often trampled on in russia, but not only - by the way, i would like to hear the same pathos when it comes to human rights being trampled on, for example, in turkey, a country which some people would enthusiastically welcome, perhaps immediately, into the european union - we must not turn a blind eye to a need. it is clear that russia needs us for energy cooperation as much as we need an economic partnership agreement with russia. i note that putin himself has said that he does not reject the principles of the charter, but that he wants another document to be drawn up which takes them up and partly amends them. so this is a very clear opening. geo-economic and geo-strategic reasons make the question of the agreement with russia all the more important. that agreement is on our table and it concerns the economic future of our country. it is therefore necessary to have a sense of realism, without, of course, abandoning the defence of human rights, which are also a means of pressure in this sense, given that putin's policy is turning, in a way that is worrying for europe, towards economic nationalism, towards closing down cooperation and cutting off contracts with western companies. this is a policy of realism which must be supported with great force and with great responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk to china about trade, agriculture, the united states or energy, or when we intervene in crisis areas such as lebanon or the middle east in general, the theme has always been the same: the european union is not a country that is going to be able to cope with the crisis, to resist it, to achieve its goals and ambitions on its own. so even with energy and the issue of relations with russia, and with increasingly disturbing leadership, the theme is always the same: europe must be united and speak with one voice. if the lahti summit, as mr goebbels said, produced a virtual result, much remains to be done and for this we need an authoritative and courageous commission, which knows how to bend national egoisms and speak in the name of all, a parliament which knows how to be the most authoritative interpreter of community interests, and a council and governments which understand how interdependence between countries is the key to counting more. there are signs and examples of this, and i would like to mention, amongst others, the choice of the italian government, which, having been a member of the un security council since january, immediately said: "this will be a seat at the service of europe". this is a concrete act which constitutes an example of a contribution by a member of the council.
mr president, pursuant to rules 136 and 138 of the rules of procedure, i would like to ask for clarification as to why the resolution we are about to vote on, which is of great political importance, has been substantially amended in its title and paragraph 6 beyond the time limits laid down in the rules of procedure. i would also point out that the new text is not yet available in all the languages required by our rules of procedure. mr president, we want to know why the services accepted such an amendment, without the agreement of the political groups, and did not resort to an oral amendment, as is the practice and the rules of procedure. in accordance with the rules of procedure, it is not possible to vote on an amendment to the text tabled outside the time allowed and without consulting the political groups.
mr president, i shall refer to the rules of procedure and thank you for your prompt acceptance of my request to speak. the timeliness with which the presidency gave me the floor gives me the confidence that my voice can reach even where the microphones cannot. i have to say that, in the terms of the rules of procedure, following the decision and the subsequent vote, we shall immediately amend our rules of procedure in accordance with the practice which has been established in this house today. it is no longer necessary to have the texts in all the languages 24 hours in advance, but it will be sufficient to receive them at the time of the vote, and it will no longer be necessary to table oral amendments, since any of us can change the texts put to the vote at the last moment. mr president, i thank you because this means that democracy has once again been dealt a blow to the head.
mr president, i just wanted to say that today was a difficult day and that i think the decision to have the vote repeated sets a dangerous and completely unnecessary precedent.
the rapporteur. mr president, this is a very sensitive subject. i would just like to thank all the members of the committee on international trade, starting with its chairman, and the entire secretariat for the excellent work they have done and for the contribution they have made to the debate on a very sensitive and difficult subject, also for the future of our europe from the point of view of freedom as well as trade.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. the tensions in the south caucasus only reinforce the argument that multilateral negotiations should be launched urgently to resolve the question of the territories of abkhazia and south ossetia. the message of openness which the european union has recently sent to the russian federation with regard to the intensification of relations at various levels is not, and must not be, separated from an invitation to dialogue and to implement all possible measures to try to resolve, without causing victims, the worst crisis of the post-soviet era. the statements by putin about the alleged preparation of a georgian military intervention, as well as the embargo on agricultural products from georgia and moldova and the interruption of the main services, from transport to banking services, cannot but have an impact on the georgian people, both on the people who emigrated to russia, many of whom have been forcibly and unduly repatriated in recent days, and on the people who are on georgian territory and who often depend economically on emigrated family members. europe must not simply act as an arbiter in this case.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, most of the experience of public-private partnerships in europe concerns the construction and management of transport and logistics infrastructure and services. in addition, public-private partnerships are perhaps the only instrument which can allow private funding to be combined with the construction of such infrastructure. that is why i want to raise only two points. the first is that, as the report says, we need a legislative initiative on concessions, including construction and operating concessions. we need legal certainty and the definition of the relationship between public concessionaire and private concessionaire. on the one hand, the private concessionaire must be guaranteed that the contracts will be respected during their term of validity, and on the other hand, the public concessionaire must be able to rely on a limited and certain duration of the contracts, in order to be able to adapt them to production conditions over time and to subject them to competition. these are the two pillars on which i hope the legislative proposal on this matter will be based. the second point concerns the need to encourage new forms of innovative financial engineering, such as the guarantee funds already provided for in the regulation on the financing of the transeuropean transport networks, so that they can act as a leverage and ensure that many more public-private partnerships also prove to be efficient and effective instruments for financing the infrastructure we all need and which you, mr vice-president and commissioner, are certainly well aware of.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of public-private partnerships has long since become part of the new frontiers of welfare state systems within the european union. its relevance must be seen in a counter-light, through the interconnections with all the initiatives that are at the heart of services. the common objective, which has been repeatedly stated, is to create a comprehensive and clear regulatory framework within which local public administrations can exercise their choices, aware of the opportunities and constraints, the principles to be respected and the areas of freedom and innovation possible. the text under vote is in line with the rules already in force on contracts, concessions and joint ventures and with the guidelines of the court of justice. however, the added value is the cross-cutting attention to the different ways in which alliances between the public and private sectors are built in the very sensitive area of services where citizens' rights are at stake. you have to have fixed points. the cost savings must not override or mitigate the need for quality of service and the safeguarding of the rights of service providers. the search for efficiency and innovation must be accompanied by a guarantee of accessibility, transparency and non-discrimination. this is a prolific year for service initiatives. the hope is that by working with pieces of different sizes, we can build a coherent design.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i would like to thank mrs weiler once again, as well as the rapporteurs for opinions from the various committees: mr langen, mr costa and mrs staniszewska. i will try to answer some of the questions, without claiming to answer all of them. i shall first answer mrs cederschiöld, mr lambsdorff and mrs rühle. when a municipality provides certain services to another public entity for remuneration, these are in principle publicly contracted services. the public entity receiving the contract competes with private companies and possibly other public entities offering the same service. a general exclusion of all forms of public-public cooperation from the scope of the community rules on public procurement and the rules on concessions would therefore be unacceptable. the case law of the court of justice is very clear in this respect. conversely, not all forms of public-public cooperation are covered by community law. the commission acknowledges that clarification is needed to determine the extent to which community law applies to the delegation of tasks to public bodies and which forms of cooperation remain outside the scope of the internal market provisions. we are working closely with all interested parties to bring this clarification. i will then reply to mrs rühle and mrs gebhardt on the issue of public-private partnerships and the concept of 'in house' or 'in control'. the concept of 'in-house' excludes the application of public procurement rules where a public body awards a contract or a concession to a third party over which it exercises a certain degree of control. the court has specified the conditions under which this derogation may be applied. you will understand that the commission wishes to keep this exception to the rules on the award of public contracts within the framework. in particular, it seems extremely difficult that a public contract or a concession could be awarded in a discriminatory manner to an undertaking in which certain private interests are represented, while the other private undertakings concerned are excluded. we therefore believe that it is necessary at this stage to stick to the current definition of the conditions for the application of in-house: the exercise by the local authority of control over the provider which is comparable to that which it exercises over its own services and the performance by the provider of the main part of its activities with the local authority concerned. for these reasons, and also in order not to undermine the new rules on public procurement which are only just being transposed in the member states, it does not seem appropriate to legislate on public-private joint ventures and the concept of in-house. an interpretative communication is the most appropriate way to explain how the rules governing public procurement apply to the selection of private partners for such partnerships. i would like to say to mr savary, who raised the question of double-competition, that we are aware of this problem and, as you have noticed, i have referred to it in my speech. i would like to be very clear: we are not demanding that there be double competition simply because we do not think it is necessary. we explained this in the 2004 green paper on ppps and we intend to make our position clear in the texts we will present in 2007. mr president, i am well aware that i cannot answer all the questions, but i would now like to conclude. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the commission must first examine more closely the costs and benefits of a binding concession initiative and other measures to address the problems. on the basis of the results of this impact assessment, the commission will decide in a second step, most likely next year, whether the comparison of benefits and costs justifies such a legislative initiative and will prepare, if appropriate, a legislative proposal. the message from all those working in the field of ppp creation is clear: they are calling for practical guidance on how to apply public procurement rules to the creation of such partnerships. the commission intends to provide these guidelines in a non-legislative form for the reasons i have indicated in the introduction. the importance of ppps for the european economy cannot be doubted. i hope that parliament's report will help to clarify the community rules on public procurement of concessions in order to offer the partners conditions of transparent and fair competition. we have understood in this debate that parliament is stressing legal certainty, but you will also have understood the commission's concern to preserve, in an area so essential for investment in europe, the margin of manoeuvre to enable it, while ensuring legal certainty, to invest more broadly where the real needs are. and you have both rightly stressed that these are absolutely essential tools. these are the answers i wanted to give, mr president, and i would like to thank parliament once again for the quality of this debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda includes the report by mrs elisabeth schroedter, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the application of directive 96/71/ec on the posting of workers (2006/2038 (ini)) (a6-0308/2006).
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i will be very brief, because we are now past five minutes past midnight and i think we have to follow very strictly the rules of both the working time directive and the other directives that are in force in europe. so very briefly. the fundamental issue, which has been mentioned twice here, is the view that the commission in its communication has tried to reapply articles 24 and 25 which were rejected by the services directive. i note that this view is not based on truth, since articles 24 and 25 are based on the concept of the country of origin, i.e. that the control is carried out by the country of origin. this is not in the communication, because the communication correctly takes as a starting point the legal situation in question, which says that the control activity takes place in the country of posting of workers, or in the country which has received workers. i would also like to note the agreement in the debate that the directive is capable of working at the moment, but it is very important and necessary to develop and deepen its consistent application, because what is the main problem at the moment is inconsistent application, in particular inconsistent crossborder cooperation between member states. the commission has indicated in its communication the steps it intends to take in this respect, and i think it is our duty to take them as consistently and as quickly as possible. i shall not comment on the individual cases which have been mentioned as typical examples of criticism of the directive or the commission, not because it is not feasible, but because i really respect the working hours of interpreters. so let me just make one last general point. in its communication, the commission first interpreted the judgments of the luxembourg court and interpreted those judgments correctly. furthermore, in the light of its duty as guardian of the treaty, it has expressed its views on certain issues. thirdly, it has proposed and is proposing procedures to improve the implementation of this directive. and so let me close with a final note. a fundamental principle of the legal process of the rule of law and the rule of law is that a law, in this case a directive, can only be used for the purpose for which it is intended. this directive is intended to protect posted workers and not to restrict the free movement of services. thus, from the point of view of that general structure and from the point of view of proportionality, the communication does not restrict the member states from exercising their control activity, does not restrict their ability to exercise it effectively, but the fundamental principle of proportionality applies that the obligations imposed must not be disproportionate in relation to the purpose to which they relate in certain cases, and these cases must always be assessed on a case-by-case basis, as the communication indicates at the end. ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for the attention paid by parliament to this directive, because i share your conviction that it is one of the most important labour market directives in force in the european union, that it is our duty to interpret it correctly and precisely and that it is our duty to implement it as quickly and effectively as possible. let me thank the rapporteur for the work she has done, because the report that has been drawn up is undoubtedly one of the steps along the road i have indicated, namely the effective application of the directive so that it fulfils its purpose. ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m. the written declaration (article 142)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the hieronymi report is motivated by a laudable aim, namely to support european audiovisual production in the face of the overwhelming competition from transatlantic productions and beyond. to achieve this, co-production is to be encouraged, coordinated marketing strategies supported and the distribution of union products on the internal and external markets promoted. however, the financial allocation seems to be very limited. moreover, it is not at all appropriate, precisely because of the limited resources, to open up the programme to the participation of non-european states. i believe that public support for the sector, both at national and european level, should be directed towards audiovisual productions intended to inform and train, to educate stricto sensu, and to what is really useful in not maintaining the current regime that makes europe a cultural colony of the usa. i do not think that the report is sufficient in this respect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to make a point for the record. as the decisions of the italian authorities regarding the change of representatives of the elected members of parliament in italy relate to the 2004 elections, i think it is not so correct that everything should start on 8 november. it is likely that the change will have to be backdated and i think that will have to be dealt with by the appropriate committee in this house.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the two reports we are discussing could not have come at a more opportune time, namely when we are discussing the infamous construction of the baltic gas pipeline which, in the absence of a serious environmental impact study, is likely to lead to an ecological catastrophe in a sea already suffering from a worrying level of pollution. not only that: the northern and southern shores of the mediterranean, whose fish stocks are becoming increasingly scarce, also suffer in some areas from high pollution due, among other things, to the extraction but above all to the refining of oil. i am referring in particular to the industrial triangle in syracuse, sicily, which represents the largest petrochemical centre in europe. in the same industrial zone, in addition to the very high level of air pollution, which leads to the dramatic problem of neonatal malformations and the unsustainable cancer mortality rate - even 57 per cent higher than the italian average - the problem of marine pollution emerges. the consequences are obvious: fish stocks of poor quality are severely depleted; fishermen, often small businessmen, either travel several miles to find a fishery or are forced to abandon their old business. as if that were not enough, there are plans to build a regasification plant in the same industrial area, which i have denounced several times in this house. the commission's proposal for a directive on the marine environment strategy and the amendments which we think will improve it are therefore welcome. it is desirable, above all, that the time taken to achieve the objectives of good ecological and environmental status be shortened. we must make up for the serious delays which europe has accumulated in this area, and the timing of policy, as we know, does not always coincide with the needs of nature. as of tonight, we're allowed to be a little more optimistic.
europe is surrounded by four seas and two oceans, which comprise different types of ecosystems and different bio-geographical regions. the european coastline stretches over 100 000 km, where 16% of europe's citizens live, many of whom are deeply connected to the sea for work, leisure, sport or as a source of natural and energy resources. in the case of closed or partially closed seas, such as the black sea, the baltic and the mediterranean, the risk of pollution is particularly high. the proposal for a directive on the marine environment strategy, which is both timely and awaited, should complement and strengthen the current policy framework for the protection of the marine environment in europe. its effectiveness will determine the future health of europe's seas, and it has the potential to provide the environmental basis for the sustainable use of marine resources and functions, both in europe and beyond.
the agenda includes the commission's statement on the shortcomings of the european electricity network.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the blackout of the electricity grid on 4 november is a signal that must make us reflect on the urgency with which we must give common answers to the energy problem. the incident has revealed the very tight interconnectedness of the networks, which is not yet accompanied by adequate governance. the guidelines which the commission presented on 9 november on the regulation of crossborder electricity traffic in europe, which are intended to improve the management system, are very welcome. but it is important to impose better cooperation between regulators: we must speed up the creation of a single european regulatory authority, a european centre for energy networks, as proposed in the commission's green paper. i also believe that there is a need for network operators independent of the commercial operators and for greater computerisation, which will allow a dialogue between the transmission and distribution networks. the internal market is a fundamental aspect of the common energy policy, which is more necessary and more urgent than ever and which must be pursued with greater courage. together with the member states we must accelerate this process, overcoming national protectionist selfishness which holds back liberalization and competition on the market, so that events like the one on 4 november do not happen again and, above all, so that europe, as a single actor, moves in the delicate international geopolitical balances, ensuring secure, sustainable and supportive energy supplies.
member of the commission. mr president, firstly, i am very grateful for the invitation and i will definitely come, but i shall only listen to the debate and not intervene in the proceedings of the committee. secondly, it is important to have all the results of the investigation before we reach a conclusion. that is why i want to launch all these inquiries, because we really need a factual basis. it was a planned action and not a natural disaster. we really need to know why it happened. thirdly, today’s debate has been very valuable. in a way it has been a prelude to the debate to be held in the committee, because it has examined how best to ensure that the necessary investments are made in power and in the energy sector in general, and which are the best ways to guarantee that investments are made and the system functions properly. i should like to praise the transmission system operators, who really cooperated on a voluntary basis. their quick response prevented an even worse blackout. i should like to inform parliament that during the summer the european transmission system operators always pay close attention to demand and supply on the electricity market. as you know, summers are becoming hotter and the consumption of electricity at that time increases tremendously, so every year there is more and more demand for electricity and the networks are overloaded. it is very important also to mention that network security standards must always be observed. therefore, we definitely need a binding standard to which all network operators have to adhere. we have already seen the example of the swiss blackout, which caused the blackout in italy. it was clear the operator had not complied with the network security requirements and that resulted in a large-scale blackout. we should ensure that such a situation never occurs again and, at the same time, establish a system that is very reliable, where the size of the european network and the size of the ucte system help to prevent blackouts, rather than causing blackouts or making them more widespread. i thank you for the debate. as i promised, as soon as the results of the inquiry are available, i will be ready to come to parliament.
the debate is closed.
the oral question to the commission on milk quotas, tabled by mrs duarte freitas, mrs carmen fraga estévez, mr salvador garriga polledo, mrs esther herranz garcía, mrs elisabeth jeggle, mr albert jan maat, mrs mairead mcguinness, mr francisco josé millán mon, mr james nicholson, mr neil parish, mr daniel varela suanzes-carpegna, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats, was included on the agenda.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank first of all the shadow rapporteurs on this report, in particular mrs mastenbroek and mrs kudrycka, who contributed to the final draft. corruption is a serious problem for the transparent management of public affairs: it undermines credibility and increases mistrust of democratic institutions and undermines human rights and the rule of law, allowing organised crime to flourish. corruption is an ancient phenomenon with great literary evidence: cicero wrote about it in 70 bc. the cancer of corruption is also lurking, unfortunately, in the depths of the european institutions. it is disturbing that the court of auditors of the european union refuses to approve the community budget because it has serious doubts about the proper use of the money, and it is equally embarrassing that the belgian judiciary has initiated legal proceedings against commission employees for alleged bribery in the acquisition of funds allocated for the chernobyl nuclear disaster. we are also witnessing the phenomenon of corruption in the use of the structural funds, often by administering them in a private way or, as in my region, by falsifying the rankings, so much so that the european commission had to impose fines of 75 million. that is why we believe that corruption is subtle and even dangerous. the fight against corruption must be a priority for the european union and, in our view, this convention should also be signed by all the member states of the european union. we also call on the commission and the council to ensure that, in addition to the signature of this convention, the united nations convention against organised crime is also signed. i believe that this is a serious contribution to the fight against organised crime, which is unfortunately still on the increase in the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sorry if i didn't take that the right way earlier. i wanted to say that i fully agree with the approach and position of the rapporteur, mr lutz goepel, and i do not quite understand why the commission is so insistent on its position. i hope that in the next two months, given the new time available, we will find ways and solutions to prevent the renationalization of agricultural policy while at the same time the financial requirements are being communalised. i shall try to work in that direction. i believe that there should be room for negotiation and i hope that the european commission will take a more reasonable position on this.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. the commission's competitiveness communication is a necessary step towards the implementation of policies aimed at increasing the union's economic performance in the global context and in the framework of the lisbon strategy. it is important, as proposed, to create a favourable framework for technological development, innovation and support for that part of industry which, through research and development, is able to extend the eu's competitiveness in the most innovative sectors. i therefore support the proposals for the globalisation adjustment fund, the new generation of cohesion programmes and the innovation guidance proposed by commissioner hübner, which encourage regions to focus more on development and i hope that they will provide sufficient guidance and support to enable our smaller and more vulnerable businesses to respond to the new energy and trade challenges in the international arena. i believe it is essential to be on the side of a fundamental factor in the european economy: small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly those in manufacturing, which are by nature less sensitive to innovation and more vulnerable to the globalisation of the economy. while i welcome the adoption of good internal practices, i believe it is essential that small and mediumsized enterprises should be adequately protected, especially in international trade, particularly in markets which exploit unfair competition and often do not disdain practices which infringe workers' rights and sometimes also children's rights.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to address the commission with some thoughts and suggestions. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. this is the first reason why i think we should be able to summarize more clearly the really significant offers of a programme. i also believe that the commission, parliament and the council are doing quite well, having succeeded in these years in issuing a series of directives and regulations which answer the questions of the quality of the environment, the quality of life and greater integration. there are, however, important areas of european and international policy where we must be bolder. these areas have been indicated in many of the speeches which have preceded me: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of young people at work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report, and also the rapporteur, mr von wogau, for his report. we had such good intentions before, now we don't even have these. what president barroso has said has left us very concerned: the commission's priorities for action in 2007 seem to us to lack the drive to ensure that a common immigration policy is actually put into practice. simply saying that security and solidarity must be combined does not seem to me to be a good legislative principle for 2007. we feel that this is a rather empty statement, devoid of any real meaning, that it does not go in the direction of building a real policy for legal immigration, that it safeguards economic immigration and that it abandons the present prohibitionist approach, which is increasingly leading people to die in the mediterranean or the atlantic ocean, and which is increasingly favouring the clandestinity of migrants, who arrive illegally on our territory and remain there as clandestines. i think the commission should give a real push, and that is to propose a policy for regular entry into our territory. in my view, it is not enough to say that security is a priority, although this may be true: we must also understand what security means. i think that european citizens should be reassured that there will be no more illegal cia flights to europe, that there will be no more abductions of european citizens and asylum seekers, that systematic monitoring of european citizens will be abandoned - i am referring to swift, to the pnr, to data retention. so when it comes to security, i think that the first thing to do is to reassure the citizens of europe that their rights are being protected. i do not think that the commission is going in that direction.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 'nothing goes on' is the curious opening sentence of the recent opinion of advocate general colomer to the court of justice of the european communities, which is called upon to give its opinion for the third time on italian legislation on gambling, after the zenatti judgment and the gambelli judgment, the latter being rightly referred to in the recitals to the oral question under discussion. it is very important to know not only what the commission has achieved but also what the member states themselves have recently done in the infringement proceedings and what steps the commission intends to take. i think it is also important that there should be light but firm rules on this matter, including direct involvement of the european parliament: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the explosion of online gambling, lotteries and betting is a phenomenon which cannot be left to market liberalisation, although the difficulty with regard to the principle of non-discrimination is clear. i would just like to mention the services directive, which has already been mentioned here, and which it excludes for reasons of public policy and consumer protection.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we consider that the objectives of the commission's original proposal, which was already equally dangerous, of imposing a single regulation for all the member states of the european union, are still very dangerous, also in the light of the widespread interests of the small and mediumsized enterprises system, especially those in padania, because they lead to ruthless competition in the service sector, which, we remind you, represents 70% of the gdp produced within the european union. it is reasonable to ask whether, on such a sensitive subject, the concerns of civil society have really been heard and accepted or whether the dangers of social and economic dumping have actually been eliminated by this new and sweetened version of the bolkestein directive. unfortunately, unfair competition by unencumbered entrepreneurs, who work in full compliance with the law, is still present today and this is the result of the liberalization which was wanted by the commission and the court of justice of the european communities. we say no to this bureaucratic centralism of the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot say everything we need to say in one minute, so i will make a choice between the possible, stating first of all that i am convinced that the adoption of this directive, as it is now formulated, can help europe. the directive helps to break down the barriers and overcome the obstacles and barriers which have hampered the unification of the services market and the initiative of undertakings to offer professional services, including those outside national borders. at the same time, however, the directive provides guarantees and strengthens the prospect of a european market and system dimension, where free movement is possible not only because of competition, which is crushed by competition for costs and the risk of dumping, but also because of good rules or practices, which are designed to guarantee principles and interests which cannot be renounced, such as those relating to the guarantee of universal service, the general interest, including in areas of economic relevance, the objectives of business qualification, environmental protection and safety and basic social protection. president. - i shall conclude by expressing the hope that tomorrow we will not only have more europe but also a better europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe needs to expand its market by removing the excessive bureaucratic obstacles in this area in order to sustain growth and employment. however, this must not be at the expense of workers' rights, nor must it create situations of exploitation or social dumping. although after a hard parliamentary battle a number of socially important services were excluded from the original directive, the text we are going to vote on is still ambiguous, with the boundary between this directive and national labour law and social protection still unclear. for these reasons, despite the reassurances given this morning, we are calling for the directive to be implemented in accordance with national consultation practices and not to circumvent collective agreements. we are particularly calling for strict monitoring of the application of the directive, so that the rules on the protection of workers' and consumers' rights and the rules on health and safety at work are not violated.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, already during the last parliament and part of this one, i dealt with other directives and initiatives concerning the implementation of the internal market, together with mr gebhardt and mr harbour. i can only congratulate mrs gebhardt on this morning, both in a proper and practical way, because we dealt with the directive on professional qualifications together with the directive on supplies and services during the last parliamentary term. the directive in question, which, as has been pointed out, is a fundamental part of the implementation of the internal market treaties, is also, in sum, the continuation of other legislative work which we have carried out with mr gebhardt and mr harbour. this directive, which is of fundamental importance, will certainly bear the name of mrs gebhardt, whom i would like to congratulate on her ability to bring the directive under consideration to a successful conclusion in such an important area, not today but already at first reading. i do not know whether it is clear to everyone that the legislation we are passing is intended to harmonize national systems and not to impose itself on them: i think that is a concept which should be clear to everyone. as we are about to take another step towards the completion of the internal market, it must be recognized and clearly pointed out once again - having heard a name again in this house, which no longer exists - that the european parliament, compared to the national egoisms represented by the council and compared to the other egoisms represented by the commission, is the institution which manages to solve problems of considerable value.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as regards multilingualism, i am glad that this report by mr bernat joan i marí has been adopted. i voted for it too, albeit with some reservations which i had and still have. i believe that the european commission, like us, has not shown enough courage in the european parliament's vote - as far as the majority is concerned - on a number of amendments. in the interests of understanding within the european union, more needs to be done on multilingualism than tolerance and acceptance. the decision of the european parliament that the commission should study the question of the creation of an agency and report to parliament on it, and the finding that the commission is lax in this regard, is a fact. this sloth must be put out of the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mrs gebhardt's report, particularly because i come from a border area where these difficulties are experienced on a daily basis. i therefore believe that these are positive measures, which also and above all benefit the border areas. i regret the controversy which has been going on for years over the draft directive on services which we are discussing today, which has finally received a very large majority in this house, which i think is well deserved. i hope that on other occasions proposals which are proactive and positive will prevail over polemics.
in writing. first of all, i would like to highlight the effective work of the rapporteur, mrs evelyne gebhardt, who has made sure that the text adopted is significantly better than commissioner bolkestein's initial draft. however, although his work was remarkable, i voted for the amendment rejecting this directive and the amendments i had co-signed, as well as those proposed by the greens and the gue, because the second reading text is backward from the first reading. there are still many dark areas in the text which should have been clarified before such an important text could be accepted, one which involves the future of the european citizens. in addition, certain services, such as services of general interest, have not been removed from the scope of this directive and this could lead to deviations. the court of justice and the commission have too much room for manoeuvre in the control of the member states and the interpretation of the directive. the legislator is the best part of the government of the judges.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'why does the political leadership continue to reflect the positions of the radicals and not those of the majority of the electorate? how did this happen? and how can we today stand by and watch, as if hypnotized, the rampant insanity, the rudeness, the violence and the racism in our own home? [...] our political and military leadership is empty of content. [dear olmert,] for once look at the palestinians, not through the barrel of a rifle or from behind the closed bars of a checkpoint: you will see a people as tortured as we are, conquered, oppressed and hopeless. perhaps that is why most of us have accepted with indifference the unkind blow to democracy that has been dealt by the appointment of avigdor liebermann as minister, a potential arsonist to head the state services responsible for putting out fires. "these are, of course, not my words: i am neither israeli nor palestinian. these are the words of david grossmann, who lost his son in a useless war, caused, of course, also by the katiusha missiles, but a war which saw thousands of lebanese and also israeli killed, including david grossmann's son. commissioner wallström said that today, 15 november, is the anniversary of the palestinian holiday. what happened on november 15, 1988? the declaration and acceptance by the palestinians of a palestinian state on the 1967 territories: so recognition of the state of israel. but the same has not been done by the israeli government, which has never recognized the secure 1967 borders because it continues to build settlements, nor by the state of palestine. i 'm tired . the european parliament has been a member of the european union for seven and a half years and i have heard the same old phrase repeated over and over again: 'two peoples, two states'. we must certainly work to ensure that there are two peoples and two states that can coexist peacefully. but why continue to repeat empty formulas, when the state of palestine is not being built and when the political choice, aided also by the madness of palestinian extremists, does not see the palestinian state growing, but sees the continuing corrosion of the palestinian land. i was in gaza last week and i am sorry that the official delegation of parliament was not there with twelve mps: we've seen what it's like to live in there, in that open-air prison; we have seen what it means to use weapons that are still unknown and that perhaps are being tested on the dismembered bodies of young people killed by bombs that fell and demolished houses; we saw it, as you see it! that is why we can no longer just say 'two peoples, two states': we must act decisively. i believe that an international peace conference with all the parties involved is indispensable. but we must really organize it, we must act! the palestinians would not need our 650 million euros if the israelis paid the taxes that are palestinian property: we are making sure, as we are forcing others - and of course not with weapons - that israel complies with its... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i have just returned from palestine. i started out with no preconceptions and no prejudices but i found a situation worse than i expected: a powder keg ready to blow dominoes all over the area. nine months of unpaid wages due to the transfer block: public offices closed, schools closed, hospitals operating only for the unfortunately frequent emergencies. eleven thousand palestinian political prisoners in israeli jails, including four hundred children and forty-one members of parliament elected in consultations which the international community has recognised as free and transparent. nineteen, including 12 minors, are the victims of the clashes of the last few days, which actually started the day after we left. it is the 900-mile-long colossal wall that is gutting the country and dividing entire families for reasons that have little or nothing to do with security. nine hundred thousand olive trees, including centuries-old ones, were destroyed to make this huge and useless work. eighty-seven is the percentage of the poor in gaza, where connections are blocked, as is the possibility of any import-export initiative. the mile is the 15 meters that make up gaza's militarized border, which is only passable on foot, even by the elderly and children after endless checks: a window into a time that was incredibly dark. yet, as they wander the streets, a glimmer of hope remains in the tired eyes of the people. europe still has a chance to redeem itself: we're going to pick up where he left off and tie up that thread that's been broken lately. we call for a just and equitable solution that includes two peoples and two states: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. time is up: i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, gaza is the heart of the heart of the problem: it is at the heart of the israeli-palestinian crisis and the middle east crisis. from there the great offensive of terrorism is born; the failure to resolve the israeli-palestinian problem gave rise to 9/11, the strengthening of al qaeda and the middle east crisis. that is why europe has to play a big role and involve countries like syria, distinguishing the role of syria from that of iran. of course, none of us wants to justify israel for what has happened in gaza in recent days - there is responsibility on the part of the israeli armed forces - but it would be a grave mistake to put the finger on israel alone for the general crisis. we must remember what is happening, the missiles launched from palestinian territory, with the consent of terrorist and extremist organizations, because there are those who do not want to obstruct the peace process. europe must play a constructive and decisive role in advancing this peace process, and must refrain from any action which could be seen as a provocation on either side. the role of europe must be balanced: i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to do this. we must work for the creation of a palestinian state, we must work to make israel feel safe on its own soil, and we must prevent every israeli family from having to send one child to school in a bus and another child in another bus in the morning because they do not know which of them will go home. we must be very firm on this, making it clear to hamas that there is no room for military and terrorist initiatives and to hezbollah that there is no room for their political role in the peace process.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my group is of course in favour of a general worldwide ban on the production, use and trade of biological weapons and hopes that the next geneva conference will decide to strengthen the relevant international conventions. i am happy to acknowledge that the european union has advanced positions on these issues and i hope that the commission will do its utmost to achieve a worldwide ban on these monstrous weapons. we must, however, recognize that the main problem in achieving such a ban has a name and a surname: george w. bush, you know. the president of the united states is personally responsible for the american political boycott of the geneva negotiations. he has, in fact, decided to withdraw from the debate: the united states has made the development of biological weapons, the use of white phosphorus and depleted uranium, one of the strong points of its aggressive and unacceptable military policy, just as it has not ratified the convention on the prohibition of anti-personnel mines, has not signed the third protocol to the convention on certain conventional weapons (ccwc), and has relaunched the star wars. this position of the united states is dangerous for world security. the european union must overcome its inertia and put pressure on the united states at the heart of the geneva negotiations.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the pse group enthusiastically endorses this motion for a resolution because it considers it a decisive step in the strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction adopted by europe in december 2003 and because it makes the reduction of the biological threat an emerging priority. at the same time, it is important that we call for all states which have not yet acceded to the convention to comply with the legislation prohibiting biological weapons, also in order to achieve the universality which is an integral and binding part of international law. the instruments for verifying the effective implementation of the convention, which were not subject to the us accession in the last review, remain within this fundamental framework. i would also like to stress the importance of the request contained in the resolution for the drawing up of a specific protocol 6 which would unequivocally prohibit the manufacture and use of cluster bombs - a shame - which are also used in humanitarian wars to circumvent the convention on anti-personnel mines. at the same time, europe must highlight the direct link between proliferation tendencies, which must be combated vigorously, and the failure of the disarmament process. the west will have greater moral authority against the proliferation of any kind of weapon if: the us will no longer oppose the adoption of verification instruments and the banning of cluster bombs; the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. today is therefore an important step, but only the first step on the long road to the banning of all weapons of mass destruction.
the timely question on the delicate question of the european union's civil protection capacity brings to the fore one of the most tortuous and controversial areas that member states have ever faced. as i have already said on several occasions in my address to the european commission and in my speech in this house, the civil protection sector, being a matter for the individual states, inevitably comes up against different regulations, vocational training and practices. for this reason, in order to harmonize the different national legislation, i have long advocated the strengthening of the capacity and coordination of national intervention forces. and this, in my view, can only be delegated to a special european civil protection agency, modelled on the us federal emergency management agency. recent experience shows that despite the goodwill shown, for example, in the case of the terrible tsunami that struck parts of the indian ocean in 2004, the european union's emergency management has unfortunately proved to be a complete failure.
the agenda calls into question the statements by the council and the commission on the framework for european regulatory agencies.
as i have already explained, the sitting was adjourned because, for the first time in the course of this parliament, the work of parliament is being carried out in advance.
the agenda calls for the report by mr alexander stubb, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a strategy for the northern dimension focusing on the baltic sea area (2006/2171 (ini)) (a6-0367/2006)
this presidency also takes note of your desperate desire for a holiday in the mediterranean. we'll ask the italian delegation to invite you.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say at once that in the european union, in comparison with the measure we are considering, there are between 50 and 100 thousand successions by death, and this is a measure which is destined to become the reference point for international law. cross-border successions are a very wide phenomenon, which is facing increasing difficulties and is the source of profound differences between the private international law and substantive law systems of the member states. this often results in obstacles to freedom of movement and the enjoyment of property rights. that is why the committee on legal affairs, which i have the honour of chairing, has decided to take the initiative to simplify succession in europe, using a power conferred on it by article 192, and to ask the commission to adopt a legislative proposal. since we, ladies and gentlemen - and i always think so - unfortunately do not yet have the power of legislative initiative, like all our colleagues in the national parliaments, i am addressing myself to you, commissioner frattini, and asking you, with the force that the qualified majority vote will give - i am sure of this - to commit yourself to our demand, which is decisive in the interests of the citizens of europe. you are well aware that today, in order to acquire the right to inherit property, the rightful owners must initiate proceedings in each country where the property is located. it's not just expensive and time-consuming. the transfer of property by inheritance, being a special form of transfer of society, is linked to affective and personal aspects, to interpersonal relationships which are very complex and which also transcend legal reasons. let me bring you a very personal memory from my youth, when i was in college: professor cariota-ferrara, who wrote his thesis on the right of inheritance, said that the right of inheritance was an affective right, a right that was often suffered. i am convinced, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, and mr president, that our proposal really does make a real contribution to the construction of a people's europe. i thank the committee for the lengthy discussion on this subject, which we have dealt with in all its aspects. i really believe that i am offering parliament a very valid proposal, one which will lead to the advancement of political europe and the europe of the people. i therefore urge you to support this report and ask commissioner frattini to do so on behalf of the european citizens. the report we are proposing sets out the means to ensure that there is one applicable law and one court. the applicable law and the court with jurisdiction must, in general, coincide and the criterion for determining this is also objective: the deceased's habitual residence at the time of death. however, private autonomy is not excluded: the testator may choose which law to apply to the entire succession: the law of his country of residence or the law of the state where he is habitually resident at the time of the choice. the parties concerned, should a dispute arise, will in turn be able to choose the applicable law and the competent court. but the most important thing i would like to say about, and which i believe is the cornerstone of our proposal, is that the report envisages the establishment of a european certificate of succession, which will indicate in a binding manner the law applicable to the succession, the beneficiaries of the estate, the persons responsible for its administration and the powers attaching thereto, and the assets inherited. the certificate will be drawn up in a standard form and will allow the transfer of the property to be recorded in the public registers of the member state where the property is located. in this connection, since mrs berger has carried out a more thorough study than others of this proposal and has tabled five amendments, i should like to say that i am particularly interested in the fact that the certificate has its own compulsiveness, its own consistency, its own certainty. in fact, if this is not established, i believe that the whole structure of the measure will be weakened, that it will lose its effectiveness and become less of a reference point, and that not all the countries of europe, of the community, can take it into account, so that it will end up being a consultative and non-obligatory measure, which will probably weaken, in some way, a force that consists precisely in legal certainty and the ability to reach all citizens, so that they have a concrete possibility of acquiring the inheritance through these instruments. the other amendments, in my view, must be rejected and i would like to make a special appeal to my colleague to reflect and perhaps give the proposal a greater impact, perhaps by withdrawing or by a different solution to the same amendment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, five days ago the united nations celebrated the 60th anniversary of the establishment of the un commission on the status of women. on that occasion, kofi annan said that the world is finally beginning to grasp that the most effective tool for promoting development is the empowerment of women and girls, which, annan says, increases economic productivity, reduces maternal and child mortality, improves nutrition and promotes health. the concept of empowerment, first developed by the european union, was launched with great force by the fourth united nations world conference on women, the beijing conference, eleven years ago. it's time to re-launch empowerment by organizing a new world conference. with this report we are once again calling on the united nations to convene the fifth world conference and we are doing so with one voice, the european voice, representing 25 and soon 27 of the 191 members of the united nations, a considerable shock mass. this is one of the follow-up measures we are asking for by voting for this comprehensive and balanced report, for which we congratulate the rapporteur.
i worked as a rapporteur for the development committee on the financial instrument for democracy and human rights, together with my colleagues from afet. our commission has voted in favour of an amendment which includes the fight against trafficking in children and women, who represent almost the whole of the phenomenon, among the measures that can be financed under this instrument, in order to help the countries from which trafficking originates in particular to combat this despicable practice. but few projects, even if well-targeted, are sufficient to combat a phenomenon that affects more than a million victims a year, mainly women, girls and children. a legal framework for regulating prostitution, close cooperation between the member states and especially with the countries from which the majority of victims come, as well as very severe penalties for those who facilitate this traffic, are all necessary tools to try to stop this scourge. but there is also a need for a strong deterrence and awareness campaign for all european citizens who are fuelling trafficking in human beings, primarily through sex tourism. finally, i would like to support the commission's proposals for measures to support victims, helping them to come forward, to denounce and to be able to reintegrate into european society.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. i agree with the commission that it is important to bring the institutions closer to the citizens, also through an effective communication policy. i do, however, share the rapporteur's view that defining a common line for all the institutions would reduce the scope for freedom of expression and also for adapting communication, as is necessary, to the different fields of action and to the changing social and technological reality. a legal framework on this subject would only add unnecessary burdens to a sector which thrives on creativity and spontaneity. but let us not forget that communication is a tool, not an end in itself. if we want the citizens to get closer to the institutions, the institutions must do everything possible to get closer to them and listen to the requests that come from the territory. unnecessary legislation must therefore be avoided. addressing policies and actions that have a concrete positive impact on growth and development; to relaunch the draft constitution; first, by ending this ridiculous and very expensive monthly move. if we can do all this and then be able to communicate it, we will be closer to the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the white paper on a european communication policy was intended to stop the rise of euroscepticism, in view of the outcome of the referendums in france and the netherlands. this is the diabolical way of trying to bridge the gap between the union and its citizens, instead of ending it by imposing abstractions and harassment through regulations and directives. developing standards of conduct that all european institutions should adhere to i fully agree with the rapporteur further reduces the space for independent opinions. this applies all the more to parliament, where the already very restricted freedom of movement - it is enough to see, for example, how the president is elected or how the speaking time of non-members is reduced and the possibility of influencing the legislative process is curtailed - would be further reduced by a code defining the methods of communication. stop throwing money at absurd propaganda!
mr president, the following sentence should be added at the end of paragraph 4: "condemns the recent rocket attack in sderot and the killing of innocent israeli civilians".
mr president, i just wanted to confirm that for the previous vote, the screen showed 44/1 and not 44/2 in the last vote you took. so there was a lot of confusion.
in writing. on behalf of the transnational radical party i voted unanimously against the resolution on the situation in the gaza strip (as i would have done for all the proposals of all the various 'groups'), considering all the resolutions presented inadequate to solve the structural problems of the middle east. i do not believe that the common european position on the oldest conflict in the middle east can continue to be the old policy of 'two peoples, two states'. as the israeli ambassador to the united nations has reminded us, every civilian casualty caused by israeli military attacks is a tragic mistake, experienced as such in democratic israeli society, while every israeli killed by rockets or suicide bombers of hamas or hezbollah is claimed as a success against israel, considered as a cancer to be eradicated from the middle east. in fact, mr president, the possible and urgent european alternative to building peace between israel and the palestinians (and in the middle east) is: two peoples, two democracies! because only by proposing democratic reforms and the european federalist, anti-nationalist model to the whole of the mediterranean will it be possible to eliminate at the root the structural causes of the middle east conflict, which are so similar to the causes of all the wars that have devastated our continent, up to the decision to renounce the absolute value of national sovereignty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i join in welcoming the irish prime minister. the institutions - the council, parliament and the commission - are in favour of a new model of europe: we must see whether this new model is in line with what the voters want, who in france and the netherlands at least have rejected what the convention proposed. let us never forget that we must take into account the will of the citizen and not certain ideals, which may be noble and beautiful but which the citizen-voter does not share. this is the key to the foundations of a possible future treaty. let's start by, for example, eliminating certain clutter: it's said that we need to change because we've become so many. the united states has grown from 13 states to 50, keeping more or less the same constitution of 1776. if the bureaucrats need a new tool, it's not necessarily good for the voters. voters must be convinced of the benefits of a new europe: we need to make them understand, for example, why being in the european union is better than being in switzerland or norway, which are not in the union. if we cannot get this concept across, it will be difficult to get consensus. one last note: the italian president napolitano has called for the treaty to be ratified. but the treaty is dead now. it would be a waste of time and energy, since without the two dutch and french ratifications, it is useless to proceed with others, which will have no practical effect anyway.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs for their collaboration, which led to the submission of a document to the afet committee which already included the requests of deve. they are also reflected in the council document, which i thank for the work and flexibility shown during these months of negotiations, particularly the local dimension of the instrument, to meet the specific needs of areas in difficulty; the specific nature of the instrument, which allows it to act also independently of the consent of governments and public authorities; the transparency of procedures and consistency with other european external policies; the scope, therefore priority to civil society; access also to unregistered actors; protection of women and children, migrants, minorities; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. brief comments on the most controversial points: i would have liked the commission and the council to have made a stronger commitment than the statement in the annex to the ceiling for election observation missions, but i hope that, even after what has been said here, it will be strictly respected. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is important, however, that at least the commission's letter be addressed not only to the president of afet but also to the chairman of the committee on development, in accordance with the legal basis of the instrument (article 179 (1) of the treaty) and parliament's rules of procedure (annex vi). i understand mr mcmillan-scott's concern about political actors and, although my committee has not made an explicit statement on the subject, i have no problem supporting his request if there are any openings. if not, i will consider with my colleagues, in the light of future developments, whether to block the process after good compromises have been reached on the main points, after much effort, in order to be able to reach an agreement at first reading and to allow the instrument to start in january 2007.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, when we are faced with the decision to slow down the negotiations on turkey's accession to the european union, what would seem to me to be the most wrong thing to do is to tell our public that the reason for this slowdown is the cyprus issue, the details of which are probably known to one european citizen in every 1000 or 10,000. the truth is that this europe is afraid and is riding on the fear of those who equate illegal immigration, fundamentalism and terrorism and try to exorcise these enemies as if they were enemies outside our borders, thus finding turkey as a scapegoat. these are fears that should not be ridden on, but should be overcome by a european political leadership capable of proposing a great dream, a great vision of a secular, tolerant, modern and courageous europe, and therefore capable of opening up to defeat the external enemies, and above all the internal ones that are increasingly occupying it.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, people is coming to the house after a year of dialogue, in-depth analysis and debate. my professional and political experience has been the source of ideas which have been widely shared and then transferred to the programme, and which are also partly incorporated in the body of the main legislative instrument of the seventh framework programme. i would therefore like to express my sincere thanks to mr buzek. the modern world is moving fast. the 20th century was already turbulent and enchanting: it has jumped three eras, from the peasant to the industrial to the post-industrial, and it has gone beyond that in the last two lifetimes. it was then that the eu heads of state or government wrote the prescription for the future with foresight: lisbon 2000 is a ten-year agenda, the time allotted to build europe's research and innovation-based knowledge society. today, however, we must note that progress has been slow, even though the sixth framework programme marked a significant positive change in european policy in this particular strategic area. it's a modest effort compared to the colossal effort of emerging economies: in the last three quarters, investment in r & d in china has risen from usd 12.4 billion to usd 84.6 billion, an increase of 580%. today, china has 12.5 percent of the global market and is the world's second largest producer of high-tech goods. then there is india and the countries of the indo-pacific region, the third scientific and technical pole in the world, which produces 36% of the world's high-tech products, exactly twice as much as all of europe. the conclusion of some analysts, rebus sic stantibus, is catastrophic: in 20 years, 90 percent of the scientists on earth will be living in one of the countries of east asia. in the face of colossal investments in research and development in those countries, some of which exceed 10% of gdp, europe is lagging behind, a prisoner of the selfishness of the member states, some of which still invest less than 1% while the european average remains below 2% of gdp. this, in a very brief way, is the overall picture as we are about to launch the seventh framework programme for which the european commission rightly asked the member states for a more significant financial effort. the people programme is the body and mind of the whole legislative body: healthy mind in a healthy body. hence the idea of motivating researchers to motivate research. the seventh framework programme is the birth of the european researcher, free, independent and motivated. this is the context we are dealing with: from recognition of the profession of researcher to legal status; from a code of conduct to the creation of a database for the selection and recruitment of researchers; the alignment of remuneration with the best international standards, equal opportunities for men and women, with measures to protect women researchers, and the reconciliation of their family and professional lives; the commission will continue to support the development of the european social model, in particular through the creation of a european social area, the development of a european social area and the development of a european social area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to abandon them would be a gift to the united states or china. the positive experience of the marie curie actions is appropriately reviewed and will be continued, giving substance and breath to the project aiming at excellence as added value, with a structuring effect on the european research area. it also provides for partnerships and equal opportunities between the public and private sectors. last but not least, intellectual property, on which the council has behaved a bit like pilate with jesus of nazareth: he took the idea and turned it into a standard of address. no, this is not good! if we really want to motivate the researcher, we must give him a concrete guarantee of the protection of the rights arising from the intellectual property he has produced. this is possible - i insist on asking the commission and the council to do so - by means of private law contractual clauses, which protect the results of the research and the individual researcher. to excel, we must motivate and attract researchers from all over the world by offering attractive conditions. in order to combine quantity and quality and to produce excellence in basic and technological research, as the people programme and the seventh framework programme aim to do, all the links must be made and all the open problems must be solved, industry and private investment must be safeguarded and stimulated, without, however, at the same time, mortifying the engine, the heart and the mind of research which is and remains man. i thank you all for your kind attention, honourable members and shadow rapporteurs, and in particular mr chichester and the other members of the itre committee, who, by turning my report around to unanimity, have intended to send a strong signal to the commission and the council rather than a recognition of my modest work.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would of course like to thank the finnish presidency, the rapporteur mr buzek and all the other colleagues and, of course, a very special thank you to commissioner ptokniĉnik, first of all for all the work we have done together, starting with his suggestions on the seventh framework programme. i would like to take note in particular of your solemn declaration to exclude any proposal involving the commitment of infrastructure and companies operating against international law, as well as your solemn commitment, an integral part of the seventh framework programme, concerning the regulation of embryonic stem cells. we have done a great job together, trying to do the best we can for europe. the seventh framework programme offers a great opportunity to define a comprehensive effort to restore competitiveness at the level of the whole european union through the full implementation of the lisbon scenario. it should therefore be stressed that this seventh framework programme is in fact the manifestation of the need to address the question of research and development at union level and should therefore be seen as the central core of a european union policy of socioeconomic development. at present, competition concerns players with a continental or, at any rate, regional-continental scope of action which goes well beyond the individual member states. the aim is therefore to pursue excellence at european level: this is what the seventh framework programme is aiming at. that is all we have tried to do at european level. my insistence on this subject has been so kindly underlined by the commissioner: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the seventh framework programme is the recognition that without a genuinely common effort we will have to give up manufacturing and development in europe. that is the essence of what we are dealing with today and that is how we have all been personally involved in such an undertaking. of course, some sacrifices had to be made, but in the end, important work was done together. i would like to make a few points about the capacity programme: i believe that the regional articulation of the seventh framework programme, i.e. the ability to bring together, in synergy, the resources of the seventh framework programme, the structural funds, with the possibility of involving the regions in an investment, can be really productive for the future, both in research infrastructures and in the regions of knowledge and regional production districts. so i think there is a set of tools which, when put together, can help us to identify the best approach to all the issues on the table. i would also like to mention in particular the need to establish, at regional level, a citizen's approach to science, and what has been a constant thought for me in these first years of work in parliament: risk education and risk assessment as a tool for policy choice, involving citizens in the sense of a global awareness. that is what we have done, i believe to the best of our ability, and it is something we can be satisfied with.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank commissioner potočnik and the finnish presidency for the work they have carried out over the last few years. before i talk about the specific programme for which i am the rapporteur, namely the euratom specific programme, i should like to make a few comments on the seventh framework programme and the specific programmes. i congratulate mr buzek and all the other rapporteurs on the excellent teamwork which led us to launch the seventh framework programme at the last possible moment. the bitterness remains, however, that we have not made a qualitative leap, that is to say, the doubling of the number of seats on which many hopes were based and which would have been a strong signal, a signal of europe's importance and above all of its conviction that it would achieve the lisbon objective. the doubling has not happened, but we are still trying to get a result. i shall start with the last comment made by commissioner potočnik on cooperation, concerning a concern i have expressed on behalf of myself and my group about the risk of funding bodies or entities under the seventh framework programme that have been established or are operating in breach of international law. the issue has been discussed recently by the european parliament, with particular reference to the entity established in the occupied territories west bank, gaza and east jerusalem although it has a more general value. i would like to stress that this concern also applies to situations, for example, in scientific associations, which may be eligible for calls for proposals under the seventh framework programme, even if they are based on national laws which violate international laws, for example by preventing the free participation of individuals and ethnic and religious groups in research activities. i believe that this is the problem on which the commission is called upon to express its views. i was not satisfied with the answer given on this point, because it seems to me to be limited to a very specific area, whereas i believe it should be addressed to a more general area. as regards the specific programmes, i am generally satisfied with most of the results achieved and i would particularly like to emphasize the attention paid to researchers. i believe that many of the activities of modern, complex society are increasingly based on the human factor. it is obviously impossible to think about european research without thinking about researchers and their needs for mobility, training and status, which are expressed in the charter of the rights of researchers. the seventh framework programme will have to put in place measures to ensure the best working conditions for european scientists, including to stem and possibly counteract the trend of brain drain to other parts of the world. i very much appreciated the effort to focus on basic research by creating an entity independent of the commission, which would be responsible for providing a merit judgment on the excellence of the scientific proposal to be funded under the seventh framework programme. the effectiveness of this new body will be measured by its ability to be authoritative in the selection of proposals and to earn the respect of the scientific community. only then will it be able to attract innovative proposals and finance ambitious projects that raise the quality of european research. transparency of operation, including through parliament's involvement in the evaluation of the work of this body, will be essential to its success. i should now like to take the remaining minutes to speak about the euratom specific programme. i agree with the commission's position, as expressed by mr buzek on the euratom framework programme, and i believe that europe must focus on the development of fusion, so that in the long term it can become an essential, unlimited, environmentally acceptable and economically competitive source of energy, capable of making an important contribution to a sustainable and secure energy supply. iter is a key step on the road to the use of fusion energy. after lengthy negotiations on the site of the reactor, the project partners have finally signed the international iter agreement. the successful conclusion of the negotiations, namely the choice to build iter at the european site of caradache in france, requires the adoption of determined and coherent measures by the union, within the framework of this and subsequent framework programmes. there is therefore a need to set up a european iter agency, in the form of a joint venture under the euratom treaty, to provide the means to fulfil europe's international obligations under the iter agreement, which means the construction of the machine and collaborative projects with japan. this agency, based in barcelona, should have as its first objective the realisation of iter. i think, however, that the use of the agency should be limited to this and i do not share the commission's position that the whole field of fusion research should be entrusted to one agency. i do not mean to undermine the agency's role, which i believe is important, but i think it is essential to help it achieve the objective which is already quite complicated. i also believe that european research needs to be more independent, and this is also true in some ways of the european research centre. on the other hand, the associations of the european fusion development agreement (efda) have over the years proved to play an essential role. europe is leading this programme because it has demonstrated the quality of its research in the field. building iter is only the first step, as we need to use it and make the best use of it, through a new generation of researchers and high-value research in europe. this can be ensured by keeping construction and research separate, which will continue to be carried out with existing machines as iter is built. that is why i think it is important, as was the case with the buzek report, that my amendment be adopted in the house.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be shorter than four minutes. i would simply like to emphasize one point, namely the great importance attached in this framework programme to the relationship between science and society: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in all member states. i would like to emphasize that science - and i am saying this in a very general way - has an intrinsic value and not just an instrumental, productive and competitive value, which is also important. science must be considered a common good and its achievements must be accessible to all. i believe that the european union, at the very moment when it is expanding its scientific activity, involving new issues and focusing on quality, must also have as its essential role to look at the rest of the world and not to close in on itself. in fact, the achievements of science must be accessible to all: the world is in a very deficit situation, and much of the research and knowledge is about the welfare of the 10 percent of the population, while the rest, the other 90 percent, is not. there are obviously important measures to be taken, including the limitation of patents when they affect the collective welfare, particularly the presence of disease. i would like to conclude by saying that i fully agree with what mr busquin said on the ethical question: there must be consistency between the decisions taken in this chamber and those taken in any other chamber.
on behalf of the alde group. research is an important pillar of europe's effort to grow not only the economy but society as a whole, because it enhances human capital and the results of research are aimed at improving social life, health and knowledge. these positive aspects cannot hide and make us forget that, from an ethical point of view, as article 6 states, there is still a shortcoming in stem cell research. they don't want to put up any boundaries or obscurantist filters: it just means that science and research need rules and guiding criteria too. the guiding principle is the primacy of man, if we do not want to overturn ends and means. the ethical profile is essential when research reaches deep into the genetic heritage and when science is looking at the origin of life itself and thus the beginning of man. to think that research is self-disciplined and can find its guidance only in itself and in its development is illusory and short-sighted. we do not agree with the wording of article 6 because we cannot accept that european funds should be used for research which could destroy the embryo! that is why it was important, commissioner, to set a cut-off date, a time limit for the use of the cellular lines already tapped at a given date. there was no such date. but it would have been a real test of the will not to want to use ad hoc embryos for research in the future. that has not been done, and that is why we are expressing a critical judgment. however, there is a point in the annex to the statement which expresses the decision not to fund research involving the destruction of embryos. we ask the commission to be true to its words, so that they are not just a statement of fact without consequences, and we also ask that the commission's statement and the annex, which risk being lost and separated from the regulation, should instead, by an express will of the commission and the council, always be bound by the regulation, of which they must form an integral part, as i believe the commissioner said in his speech. we also want this will to be formalised in a legally sound way, so that it is not simply a matter of political will, which is left in the evening minutes of this house. tomorrow will be an important day for research, although i think it is worth repeating that there is still the bitterness of those who have sometimes found in comparison an insurmountable wall on these issues, and there is still the contradiction if the solution adopted for stem cells is not clear and respectful of the values of life.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the europe we dream of is first of all a europe of human rights, then a europe of the market. the european union is the europe of solidarity with the smallest, and then the europe of competitiveness. i thank you for the clarifications you have given us this evening, but you know that there are still some details that are not clear, and that the wording of the common position is still ambiguous. you also know that european money will also encourage the destruction of human embryos. i remember with joy when, in 1989, socialists and people's party members voted together to make a commitment never to conduct experiments on human embryos, except for the sake of the embryo itself. today we are reversing that position: the council has not yet taken a decision on the budget, and it is not yet clear whether the council will take a decision on the budget. i hope that these amendments will at least be accepted in the specific programmes.
the commissioner's speech is frankly rhetorical, full of good statements, to which the european commission does not play a positive role. as the latest data presented by unaids show, hiv continues to grow and in some states there is even a resurgence. in the face of all this, patented medicines continue to be prohibitively expensive and the trips agreements create an insurmountable barrier to access to medicines, condemning nearly 3 million people to death every year. the beneficiaries of this situation are the pharmaceutical multinationals, whose profits in 2005 increased by 24%, multinationals defended by the us administration, which has never stopped using its political and commercial weight to influence the negotiations on pharmaceutical patents. at the multilateral level, the bush administration's agenda is to make inapplicable the safeguard clauses of the trips agreements, which, in the event of a health crisis, would allow member countries to circumvent intellectual property rights and have life-saving medicines. but if the united states can be rightly accused of violating one of the most basic human rights, that of health, europe cannot be considered blameless. the inaction of the commission and the member states in coming up with a community regulation which is really capable of implementing the doha declaration is to be condemned without appeal. you, commissioner, speak of a few thousand africans in therapy: but in africa, there are 30 million people living with hiv, 6.5 million of whom would need treatment. tomorrow is world aids day. global civil society is calling once and for all for policy to take responsibility, not just for access to medicines but also for funding prevention and research programmes. the creation of an international market for generic medicines, supported by a new system of medical research geared to the real needs of people, remains the crucial issue. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. 1) declare the decision of 30 august 2003 void; 2. to propose to the wto the amendment of trips and new procedures for compulsory licensing, which would be able to respond immediately to the health emergencies caused by the hiv epidemic; 3) supporting the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria with eur 1 billion, as requested by parliament on 2 december 2004 and ignored by the commission and the council; 4) devoting more resources to research into medicines for diseases specific to the global south and obliging the private sector, which has always benefited from public research, to reserve a reasonable part of its research for these neglected diseases. too many false promises have been wasted, now is the time to act!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard many fine words, good statements from the commission, a lot of demagogy from various members. we are dealing here with actions which are not outlined in the commission document, but which are necessary. we must, however, fight the spread of drugs with determination, which means zero tolerance, care and rehabilitation for those who are in fact sick and should be treated as such. we need to stop glorifying sexual promiscuity, which is now considered and shown as a model to be followed by the media and opinion leaders. we need a policy of education, but also of dissuasion from risky behaviour and a policy of conscious parenting for those who are affected. we also need to take a serious look at the fight against prostitution, which is far from being the case in our europe, and we also need to strengthen surveillance, testing and, of course, the treatment and prevention of infectious diseases, as outlined in the document. but we are not there, mr president, when i hear and read speeches from colleagues who preach 'freedom', freedom which for societies means inertia and for civilization, in this case, means regression.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank parliament and in particular the rapporteur, mrs lynn, for putting this important question on the agenda for today's plenary session. i am glad that parliament and the commission are very close in their views on the disabled. in particular, i would like to thank parliament for its support in the development and implementation of the european disability strategy. it is not just about giving people with disabilities the opportunity to enjoy their rights, their rights to human dignity, to equal treatment, to independence from other people and to full inclusion in society. disabled people must be able to exercise their abilities and participate in social and economic life. the commission's action plan on equal opportunities for people with disabilities provides a strategic framework for setting current priorities. as mrs lynn's report emphasises, the community's policies and activities have a wide range of effects on the situation of people with disabilities. in 2003, the council therefore also recommended that member states should fully follow the action plan in designing their policies for people with disabilities. at the end of 2005, i presented a communication on equal opportunities for disabled people, which launched the second phase of the european union's action plan for disabled people 2006-07. this second stage is also the subject of mrs lynn's report. first, the current situation. the statistics available to the commission speak for themselves. 44.6 million people of working age, that's one in six of our fellow citizens, have a long-term health problem or disability, by their own estimate. the employment rate of disabled people is up to 40%, compared with 64.2% for non-disabled people. even for those with relatively mild disabilities, the employment rate does not exceed 50%. 43.7% of disabled people who are not working believe that they could work if they had access to adequate assistance. the commission's 2006/07 programme aims to respond to this situation. in particular, an environment must be created that enables persons with disabilities to enjoy their rights, to have the same choice as non-disabled persons, to make decisions about their lives, to participate in the economic activities of life, to exercise their abilities in both their personal and professional lives and to fulfil their obligations as any other citizen. in this spirit, four priority areas have been identified for the period 2006-07. the european council also identified the promotion of employment and labour participation of people with disabilities as a priority at its spring 2006 meeting. access to quality, accessible and affordable services for people with disabilities must be a key element of the european action programme for the coming years. access by persons with disabilities to material goods and services is essential to ensure the exercise of their civil rights and independence. the union needs to be better able to analyse the situation and identify the development factors that affect the status of persons with disabilities. this action plan has already produced positive results. the first european legislation specifically relating to disabled people was adopted, namely the regulation on the rights and obligations of disabled people in the field of air transport, which was cited by the rapporteur. the rules applicable to the new structural funds guarantee the right of access of persons with disabilities to projects financed by the community and provide that the principle of accessibility must be respected at all stages of the fund's operation. the recent adoption of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is a landmark event. for the first time in history, the european community is a party to the convention. the convention firmly enshrines the fundamental principles of the european union's disability strategy, namely non-discrimination, equal opportunities and active action for social inclusion.
the european action plan 2006-2007 for persons with disabilities sets out a strategy based on the principle of non-discrimination in the access to goods and services for every european citizen. this is a culture no longer linked to the idea of passive care but to the objective of integration, active participation in economic and social life and the recognition of the protection of their rights. the quality of life is a central theme, so that people with disabilities can fulfil their expectations while respecting human dignity. this is why the relationship between health and the environment in which we live is also emphasized. we share the articulation of the three objectives: complete the implementation of the equal treatment in employment and working conditions directive; to strengthen the integration of disability issues into relevant community policies; to improve accessibility for all. our amendments have highlighted the need for a generally homogeneous approach in all the member states in the field of transport and mobility, and to ensure adequate assistance in the school and training process and in the family, as well as the promotion of sign language. it is also essential to stress the need to establish and guarantee high european quality standards in the provision of social services, because it is the quality perceived by the person that determines the quality of a full life in the future. we hope that the statement of principle will be followed by more and more practical action. finally, i would like to thank mrs lynne for her work.
i am most convinced that the lynne report is right, because it has been able to grasp the problems of the complex world of disability in a broad way, and to propose actions and instruments which are sufficiently appropriate to meet the needs of life, relationships and social position. i would also like to express the hope that the statements of principle, which are acceptable, will be followed by more and more concrete action by the executive committee, and that the 'differently-abled' (or, if you prefer, the 'differently-abled') will be able to achieve their life expectancies in a way that respects their human dignity. the text we are about to vote on summarises well the work done by the rapporteur in our committee and the social demands coming from the various national realities. i would stress in this connection the need for the behaviour of the member states of the european community to be more or less homogeneous, in order to avoid unjustified equalisation between european citizens on the grounds of geographical differences.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission welcomes the opportunity for this debate on european growth and employment policy and it expressly welcomes this report. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs del castillo vera, very much for this thorough and objective analysis. we are holding this debate a few days before the commission's decision on the 2006 progress report on growth and employment. i agree with the analysis of the honourable member that we in europe do indeed know very well where our problems lie. we also know very well what to do. we have the right answers to the problems, but - madam president, you are quite right - there is a problem with the implementation of the measures which are considered to be the right ones, particularly at national level. it's easy to explain why. the long-term reform needs we have identified for european growth and employment policy are repeatedly at odds with short-term interests of national policy. there's always an election somewhere, and the machine is always stuck somewhere. however, i can tell you today that the progress report we are going to adopt in 14 days will send out two extremely positive signals. the first signal is that for the first time we actually have a functioning mechanism in europe to coordinate the economic policies of the member states and the union. this was the great problem of the lisbon strategy you mentioned, whose objectives were very ambitious but whose implementation mechanism was practically nonexistent. the second positive response is that the priorities of the member states have changed significantly. we will be able to show in our reports, which will be country-specific and sector-specific, that the issues covered by our strategy are now on the agenda throughout europe: education and training, research and development, innovation, better conditions for enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, promotion of the employability of those groups of the population who are excluded from the labour market. we see all of these as topics on the political agenda in all the member states, and i am therefore pleased that the report we are discussing here today makes very clear statements on these very topics. i would like to emphasize very clearly how much i welcome the fact that this report so clearly supports the commission's policy on small and mediumsized enterprises and on innovation. i want to make it very clear that the future of our growth and jobs depends on our success in strengthening the innovation potential of smes so that they can contribute more and more to growth and jobs in europe. the jobs we need will be created in this sector, and it is therefore important that all our policies are reviewed to see whether or not they give the necessary leeway to small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. we will then be able to discuss very soon the state of play of growth and employment policy on the basis of the commission's progress report. i am quite sure, madam president, that you will then agree with me that we are not at a standstill in europe, but are moving in the right direction.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is in need of renewed impetus to overcome the gap between it and other strong, dynamic and competitive economies in the world: i am thinking not only of the traditional ones but also of the new ones that have emerged on the world stage. europe is therefore at great risk if it fails to keep up with the pace and to renew itself, giving itself the additional momentum and momentum that is required of it, also through this debate. it is in danger of losing the compatibility it has always shown between economic, productive and industrial growth and, together, social cohesion and the capacity to enhance employment and the dimension of more inclusive growth. this extra march needs, in my view, two elements: the first is that we must act on the new factors for economic growth and employment: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. but there's a second element that i'd like to mention in closing, which becomes critical to winning this challenge: europe must act more together! europe must give itself this strategic capacity of a common vision. twenty-five national plans undermine our ability to grow together: we need a single vision, a more unified vision. in short, we need more harmonized policies in the field of taxation, employment and industrial policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have tabled two amendments: articles 47 and 48. however, as regards the second, paragraph 48, a correction has been made to the common position in the sense intended by that amendment. i am therefore satisfied, since there is no point in voting on an amendment which has already been accepted. the second part of the other amendment, namely the part which indicates today, 30 november, as the final date for the destruction of embryos from which stem cells are to be removed, was declared inadmissible. i do not agree with the declaration of inadmissibility, which i cannot unfortunately do anything about. what remains of the article is the replacement of the word 'extraction' as it appears in the common position by the word 'use', as parliament had already proposed in its first reading. it is a minor matter, although, as the commissioner said last night, the commission, throughout the whole development of the programme, accepts the word 'use' and not the word 'extraction' - which means in practice that it will not fund any destructive research on embryos - i think this is a proposal which deserves to be welcomed. so i would say on this point that i do not insist on the vote if the colleagues who signed the amendment agree.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i refer to the speech by mr casini and to amendment no 49 tabled by myself and others. i am glad that the commissioner has now taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. of course, that applies to me, but if there are others who are interested, they can obviously do so too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say very briefly that i voted in favour of the moscovici report because i believe that romania should be fully integrated into the european union, having taken giant steps in the right direction. i hope that, with regard to the minorities, there will be the same openness and availability in romania as in italy, for example, where it has been recognised that minorities represent added value and that, by transferring skills to them, offering them opportunities and letting them live culturally, but also with regard to administrations, minorities actually create added value for the majority. in this respect, i trust in the goodwill of the romanian government and of the minorities, whose numbers are quite coexisting in romania.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my satisfaction at the success of the reports on romania and bulgaria, and in particular the moscovici report. i must say that while i welcome the report and the progress made by romania in respect of the accession protocol, i am deeply dissatisfied, as are many other members of this parliament, with the question of the moratorium on international adoption of some 1200 children. romania had promised to review these cases, but it did not and did not fully do so. we are still in a situation where these children, who have met their families, find themselves back in orphanages: it is unacceptable that there should be this kind of resistance, because, as has been said many times in this house, these children must be given an answer, certainly not by violating their fundamental right, which is to have a family. the families they referred to, and those families should be returned. we call for greater sensitivity on the part of the romanian government, even though the gibault and other amendments have not been supported by parliament, and we call for this sensitivity by an act of availability to children, at least on the eve of this christmas.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the days since the agreement with the council was reached - which was also made possible thanks to the support of the commission - i have been wondering what we could have compared with this long march, which, as far as i am concerned, has lasted three and a half years and has brought us to this point. to answer that question, i had to draw on my passion for mountaineering: perhaps the most apt analogy is to say that we have climbed a great mountain, probably, and without exaggeration, an 8,000-meter himalayan. i've never been this high, and i don't think i'll ever get there because i'm a modest climber, but i know what happens when you get to the top: at that point, the effort, the risk, and perhaps the dissatisfaction that often comes with reaching the top and the view is modest because of the fog, don't matter. it 's happened to me many times: i come, and i don't see anything! but the satisfaction is still great. the important thing is to be clear about two things: the first is to know if you've really reached the top, and the second is to prepare well for the descent, which is often no easier than the climb. as the coordinator, i would like to give my opinion on these two aspects. did we really get to the top? i think so. with the package of chapters we have settled in the final stage of the negotiations on duty of care, animal welfare and, above all, the promotion of alternative methods to animal testing, the agency, the communication of information, the adaptation to the new interinstitutional agreement on comitology - thus safeguarding the role of parliament. we have had to make a compromise, however, in the form of the extension of the chemical safety report to small tonnages, which was not a victim of this ascent, but an early return to the baseline, since we have defined a revision rule which will allow us to possibly reintroduce this obligation in seven years' time, once the appropriate checks have been carried out along the entire supply chain. in this agreement we have above all succeeded in resolving well - and that is why we have come to the top - the most controversial issue, the purpose of reach, namely the regulation of the substances of greatest concern through the authorization procedure. to assess whether we've really reached the top, we need to remember where we started: from a valley far, far away. the original commission proposal provided that all substances subject to authorization could be authorized on the basis of the principle of adequate control. she's come a long way. the council's common position, which was positively influenced by parliament, has already reduced the area of these substances and, subsequently, with the agreement reached on 30 november, we have taken a further step forward by reducing the number of substances that can be adapted by this shorter and simpler route and then we have included all substances - including those which will be authorized on the basis of adequate control - in a substitution process. where an alternative exists, a replacement plan must be submitted; where no alternatives exist at the time of authorization, the research and development lines which the undertaking intends to pursue must in any case be stated. on this basis, therefore, the duration of the authorisation will be decided on a case-by-case basis and will have to be justified by the commission if an alternative exists. and if an alternative emerges during the authorisation process, the obligation to replace the plan will be triggered. what i would like to stress is that the commission will take its decisions on a case-by-case basis on the basis of the opinion of the agency, which will have to take account of the opinions of the economic and social committee and the risk assessment committee, which will also have to take account of the contributions of third parties. it is therefore a very transparent process and not just a matter of self-declaration by the applicant. as far as the descent from the summit is concerned, i think it is important to choose the best route, since the same degree of difficulty can be increased considerably compared to the ascent. and by that metaphor i mean that we have to adopt the compromise we have reached, because that will allow the regulation to be published by the end of the year and thus the deadline for the entry into force of reach by 1 june 2007 can be met. this is a complex issue, which cannot be resolved in a hurry: reach is so complicated that it is wrong to expect to solve all the problems at the approval stage. the important thing now is to launch the application: we have foreseen several mechanisms and deadlines, so to speak self-regulating ones, which will allow for adjustments in the course of the work, on the basis of the practical experience we have gained. we have improved the balance through all the steps of this procedure, i am thinking of the answers we have given to the problems of small businesses, i am thinking of strengthening the protection of health and the environment, with particular regard to the risks to workers. i think that, on the whole, this finished product can be evaluated very positively. i have noticed that my friends in the green group and the gue group have tabled a package of amendments, which are all very welcome, and which are very similar to those which i proposed in the negotiations with the council and the commission to get us to where we are now. what are these amendments for? to get where? what peak could be reached in an unlikely compromise? we all know what the real alternative is: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let's face it, it might be better. that is the real alternative we have and i am sure that parliament will make the right choice in the vote on wednesday. mr president, with my speech today, i have finished my work: the vote list will also be small, there is no big job, it is only two pages, a record for reach, considering that some 5000 amendments were evaluated at first reading. my work is therefore over here, and i would just like to thank all those who have taken part in various ways in this himalayan expedition. many have participated: i have met six presidencies, many committee leaders and commissioners, and i was always there, playing the lead, even though sometimes someone, instead of giving me security, tried to bring me down. anyway, we got this far. i thank everyone, jokingly and seriously, starting with the chairman of the committee on the environment, mr florenz, all the shadow rapporteurs, including those who disagree with this result, the presidencies, and above all the finnish presidency, which has been a really crucial interlocutor, the commission, which perhaps did not give great acceleration blows, but which in the final phase was decisive in reaching this result. but most of all, i thank the staff who worked with me: two italian women - including my assistant, mrs sabina magnano - who have played a very important role in this project. if it were possible to change the name of the report, i would put theirs and that of everyone who worked with me! (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in respect of all the positions that have been expressed, even the most critical ones, and to those who are about to vote in favour of the common position without supporting a package that improves it, i would like to say that there is freedom in this parliament and that we will remain friends as before. there is one argument i must disassemble, however: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all this upheaval would have occurred during the last night of the negotiations. that is not true. we can only make estimates, because only reach will tell us the actual quantities, and the most reliable estimates say that there will be about 2500 substances undergoing the authorization procedure. the compromise states that there should be fewer than 200 substances that can be authorized on the basis of adequate control - which is not a licence to kill, but which presupposes a risk assessment, and in any case, as we have restructured the compromise, even for these substances, where there is an alternative, there is an obligation to submit a replacement plan and, in the absence of an alternative, a research and development plan. it is therefore clear that all substances which are authorized will be subjected to a process which will lead to their substitution in the short or long term. if anyone had in mind the obligation to replace by decree, they would have voted on something which i have never put forward, either at first reading or in the committee on the environment. what i really cannot accept is what has been said about the fact that the negotiation process would have taken place without transparency and democracy. i met the shadow rapporteurs before and after all the negotiating rounds, i briefed them and, until the last round, there was very broad agreement on the negotiating mandate i had at the negotiating table. finally, i would like to thank my friend carl schlyter for returning my apple from a year ago. i'm going to eat it tomorrow, but he kept it, and he showed me in a glass jar something that's a real ecological bomb. i would like to tell you what my old master of union bargaining taught me. he was an old worker, he'd been through a lot and made a lot of sacrifices. he said: "you must not be like the walnut, which is hard on the outside and soft on the inside, you must be like the peach, soft on the outside and hard on the inside". that's my line of business.
the president of the green group will vote in favour of mrs kuneva and mr orban's membership of the commission. we wish to congratulate them on their appointment and hope that they will be able to work in a team whose internal cohesion, motivation and european vision are unfortunately not what we want and what the european union requires. in this sense, our vote in favour today is more a sign of welcome to the two new member states, represented here by the two new commissioners, than a support for the present commission and its policy. mrs kuneva, you will very quickly realise that in the commission you are joining today, the industrial lobbies have much easier access and a much easier life than the consumer movements. i hope that you will be able to innovate and, in some way, resist. mr orban, you will quickly realize that protecting the cultural dimension of the european union is a much more difficult task in a commission perhaps even too open to one part of our world rather than to others. mr president, to participate positively in this vote means for us also to set a precedent in some way, which is the vote on individual commissioners, which we have often wished for and which we hope to be able to achieve in the future. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i support the report by mr mcmillan-scott and mr flautre on the european instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights, because democracy is a universal fundamental right and as such must be promoted by transnational institutions. the radicals in this parliament have fought for years for the respect of the 'democratic clauses' contained in many agreements between the eu and authoritarian countries such as laos, vietnam and uzbekistan. these agreements must be applied to the letter, but the promotion of the right to democracy cannot be a mere by-product of cooperation, international trade or humanitarian aid policies. we must act and build a genuine european policy of democracy in the world, because the right to democracy cannot be limited to europe's 'neighbourhood'. the european union must be able to build an alliance between europe and the pro-democracy forces around the world: the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu's ability to act in the future will tell us whether this objective has been achieved or whether new, more flexible and more effective instruments will be needed.
i believe that behind the revision of the previous legislation - seen as a natural legal adaptation to new technologies - there is a desire to liberalize the advertising market wildly: no daily limit on telesales, telepromotions not included in the time limit, unregulated minispot and the introduction of product placement, an advertising practice which is so interwoven with the content of the programmes that it cannot be regulated either quantitatively or qualitatively. the text of the directive also lacks binding references to the principles of pluralism, independence and free competition which should form the basis of any broadcasting system in a modern democracy, as parliament itself has repeatedly stated. television is undoubtedly the most important cultural medium of our time, linked by a double thread to the democratic and cultural life of a country, and it is dangerous to make its contents and its operation dependent on the logic of the market alone, without protecting the rights of viewers, for example, to unbiased information or to the protection of children. how can you protect your children from food-altering commercials? it's a fact that most kids today only eat foods that are high in sugar and fat. in this commission proposal, which is 'borderless', that is to say, without limits, there is only advertising. without the course correction proposed by the amendments tabled by the gue, but also by a cross-cutting group of members of parliament with no political ties, the television of the future risks being enslaved by advertising laws alone.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this directive is to liberalize the advertising market completely, and this leads to a single model of television, a television exclusively for entertainment. it will become impossible to make quality, educational, cultural television. the european cultural production will be seriously damaged and this directive will cause serious damage to newspapers, which will no longer have the possibility of intercepting advertising. television often induces superfluous needs and advertising thus becomes an assembly line of induced needs: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. this evil deed of product placement is changing the very nature of advertising, which is transformed from the soul of commerce into the very soul of television broadcasting. a leading liberal philosopher like karl popper called television a "bad teacher". today, with this directive, the proclamations of the "bad teacher" become "borderless".
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive has a major impact on two levels: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore believe that it is important to strike a balance between these two aspects, namely the technological aspect and the content and specificity of the product. for this reason, we have asked that a great deal of attention be devoted to the issue of the impact on children, so that media as a tool for growth does not become a tool for manipulation. we are in favour, commissioner, of finding large resources for investment through advertising and other forms of financing, but we want clear rules so that advertising does not stifle or destroy the creativity of the product, the artistic freedom and the importance of the european cultural product, which must be supported. so i say no to a commercial that becomes a river that flows. i am in favour of a 45-minute break, but not of advertising that becomes predominantly about the product and its quality. finally, when we talk about audiovisual products, there is inevitably a question of quality, and here too, mr commissioner, i appeal to your sensitivity: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. it is not only culture that is linked to this issue, but also democracy in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has stressed above all the industrial and economic interest of television, which is important, but television is first and foremost the greatest means of information and the main vehicle of culture, accessible to all, and it is also an instrument of power. there is a tendency at present to widen the advertising space on television, and this would limit the role and freedom of printed media funding. the article authorizing product placement is based on hypocrisy, because first this principle is denied and then it is authorized in a thousand different ways. and it would have the consequence not only of the inclusion but also of the contamination of the creativity of the authors of every fiction programme and of other shows. i therefore understand the painful compromise of the rapporteur, mrs hieronymi, who has done a very good job, but i have tabled, along with many others, an amendment to abolish the idea of product placement and other amendments.
the result of the vote on the directive on television without frontiers shows a great deal of maturity on the part of parliament. in fact, thanks also to the excellent work of the rapporteur, mrs hieronymi, of all the opinion-makers, of the council and of the commission, the directive offers a valid instrument to promote the competitiveness of the european audiovisual industry, leaving a reasonable margin for private financing (it is not new, audiovisual services live on advertising) while ensuring the right level of protection for consumers and especially for the most vulnerable groups (such as children and the disabled). i would have preferred, however, to have been more courageous, for example, in introducing product placement. while i agree with those who want to guarantee the creativity and independence of authors, as well as the quality of products, i must nevertheless remind you that in 2007 and on the global market this practice is a reality, and that to reject this truth means risking losing competitiveness, funding and market shares. i hope that most member states will show more courage and openness than these institutions have shown so far.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for allowing me to speak, although i was not present at the beginning of the debate. i would like to thank the commissioner and mrs quint and mrs jensen for their words of appreciation to me, and mr elles and mr grech for conducting this budgetary procedure in a positive manner. with this amending budget we are returning more than seven billion euros to the member states. this amount is partly due to the entry in the budget of a substantial increase in revenue forecasts and partly due to a high under-implementation of the appropriations voted and available in the budget, in particular eur 4 billion. this under-implementation concerns in particular the expenditure headings of agriculture, the structural funds and the pre-accession strategy. we wanted to include this discussion in the general budget debate precisely because the return of seven billion euros is not a trifle, but a matter of concern. the problem is twofold: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's as if i agreed to give one percent of a hundred euros a year to a good cause and then, in fact, at the end of the year, i systematically earn more. so you will agree that this operation by the member states is less generous than it seems. on the other hand, the actual resources available are not fully used either: if we look at the types of under-implemented resources, we find that it is always the member states and not the commission that are responsible for under-implementation. i am not being particularly generous to the barroso commission, but i must say, in all honesty, that the commission has no direct responsibility in this matter, but rather a serious responsibility for the member states. we must take this debate as an opportunity to call on the member states to do better monitoring, to do better control, to do more vigilant work to ensure that the funds allocated and earmarked are well spent. so instead of limiting ourselves to the now boring exercise of the process of accusing the european bureaucratic machine, the so-called eurocracy of brussels, let us also look a little at our national situations, because if we analyse more closely the functioning of our national public apparatuses and call on governments to take joint action to improve the performance of public administration, perhaps this figure of seven billion in restitution will not be available next year.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council on the basis of the opinion of the committee on international trade. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, globalisation is not only affecting the developing countries, but also europe. the first victims of globalisation have been the people of those developing countries where the wto tariff openings have produced no tangible effect. but unfortunately there are also victims in europe, where the living conditions of many europeans have deteriorated radically. work is either not available or not adequately paid or has become precarious. the welfare state and social security are in crisis. the globalisation adjustment fund is important because it sends a positive message, but unfortunately it is almost a symbolic message. the funds allocated are not sufficient in relation to the ambitious objectives set and the number of workers who can be helped - between 35 000 and 50 000 - is also almost symbolic. it is therefore foreseeable that the fund will be dispersed in a thousand rivers, leaving the many applicants empty-handed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i too would like to express my satisfaction at this important measure. the fund is one of the most significant instruments for the construction of a european identity. it is symbolically and concretely so, since it supports active policies for workers who are at risk of losing their jobs, or who have lost their jobs, mainly as a result of relocations. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has not delivered its opinion because of an unexpected and inexplicable majority against it, which i am happy to see has now been reconstituted. in this way the economic committee has excluded itself from the possibility of making positive contributions, and has lost the opportunity to improve the text on matters within its competence. i would point out that, although a reservation for exceptions is made, the fixing of the quantitative threshold risks raising awareness of the diversity of the production systems of individual countries and failing to address the real losers, those who do not have effective national legislation protecting workers, small businesses and districts.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the need and urgency of reorganizing the fabric of european enterprises as a result of the process of globalization and the emergence of a large european market, there is concern that the costs of these events, which are in themselves positive, are not being borne solely by the world of work. that is why we welcome european initiatives such as the establishment of a globalisation fund, which we are discussing today, or the report on corporate social responsibility, which we will be discussing tomorrow. the development of the free market in a social economy must combine the creative drive of economic freedom with the positive action of solidarity. only then will enterprises and work be able to achieve the good of the european community. in this sense, the creation of the globalisation fund is an important instrument for achieving this balance, which would otherwise be broken by creating social injustice and job losses, of which the difficulties of important companies such as volkswagen in belgium or significant territorial experiences such as magrini galileo in my region, veneto, are significant examples these days. we therefore hope that this initiative, although experimental, will produce positive effects and be adequately financed. i too would like to thank the rapporteur for her efforts.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group i would like to thank mrs gröner for the work we have done together. we have been very keen to see this institution be born with the names of the representatives of the two major parties in the european parliament, precisely because it also enjoys this strength and support. i must say that in all the work that has been done, although the debate has been important at times, in the end it has always been almost unanimous in the committee on women's rights. i think that this path should also be remembered. finally, even at first reading - with the reservations we often find even in this house when we deal with this issue, which is still unresolved at european level, and which sees women, despite guaranteed laws, still not being able to benefit seriously from equal opportunities and possibilities of being present at all decision-making levels - we obtained a favourable vote which, i am convinced, will be repeated in this house tomorrow. i would like to add just a few remarks to what my colleague has said: first of all, i think it is not very often that a decision succeeds in interpreting the guidelines of the preparatory studies as well as in this case. following the social policy agenda at the beginning of 2000, it was decided to undertake a study on the establishment of this institute, and both parliament and the commission commissioned a study by area managers. i would venture to say that the result of our work, and the one which the house will vote on tomorrow, fully reflects the indications contained in these two studies, namely the creation of a small, flexible, independent, networked institution capable of analysing the data and the reasons for the discriminatory phenomenon still present, of studying good practice, of finding and making known innovative legislative and regulatory solutions in the field of women's rights and equal opportunities. i would like to say that i am very pleased that this institute will be set up in vilnius, lithuania, and that it will be able to achieve a good result thanks to the wonders of science and technology, despite its remoteness. the work of this institute will enable further progress to be made, which will serve both the community throughout europe and those outside europe who look to us as a teaching and guiding element in this specific field.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will be voting for the gender institute and we are obviously happy that it is finally coming to fruition. i say 'finally' at the end of this process because, as i recall, the feasibility study was carried out in 2002. i hope, however, that the institute will soon be operational. we would certainly have liked to have had more resources available, but i prefer to see the positive side, namely the creation of the institute, and hope that in the future the means, of all kinds, will increase. i would like to make two recommendations for the future of the institute: the first relates to where it is particularly useful for the institute to carry out its work, and the second relates to a specific theme of intervention. it has always been the case that where women are most backward, there is a serious lack of gender-disaggregated statistics. the first recommendation is therefore that the institution should be particularly present in those situations. the second recommendation relates to a specific theme of inquiry: the pay gap. the gender pay gap remains unacceptably high and, above all, shows no substantial signs of reducing. if we consider that the treaty of rome contained an article which expressly mentions equal pay for men and women and that fifty years have passed and we are still almost at the same point, we can see that there is still a lot of work to be done on this subject.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate must send the commission a clear message, namely that it must make its vast enlargement programme dependent on the need for an overall strategy concerning the present and future political role of the european union. this also implies, and perhaps essentially, a choice of geopolitical content on what the borders of the european union should be. this is particularly true and urgent in the most sensitive case, that of turkey, where the solution of the privileged partnership is finally beginning to emerge. i agree with these reports on one point, namely that the commission communication on the enlargement strategy lacks adequate reflection on one fundamental aspect: the risk that further enlargement of the european union, without corresponding adequate capacity for political, economic, financial and cultural integration, will inevitably lead to the weakening, if not the failure, of the political project of the european union. it is a fact that the commission, when it gives a startlingly superficial outline of this enlargement programme, does not indicate what the financial impact of this will be, whereas it is absolutely necessary to take account of this before any possible accession. we are well aware of the efforts which await us as a result of the accession of bulgaria and romania, and so perhaps the time has come to say clearly to the countries awaiting accession that, for the time being, different perspectives are open to them, as we have indicated for turkey. we must not forget that it has been extremely difficult to reach a compromise on the current financial perspective - which will have to be revised shortly. these arguments make it clear that the position of governments - such as the prodi government - which insist on enlargement to the balkan countries with all their might, without taking any account of these objective difficulties, is the result of irresponsible superficiality. the excessive condescension in the accession procedures of the past with regard to serious matters such as corruption and crime can no longer be tolerated if we want the european construction to continue to meet the criteria and values in which our citizens and peoples believe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i understand the security requirements, but i cannot help denouncing the rude and frankly violent attitude with which some security officers have intercepted and blocked us members in front of the plenary. this is truly unacceptable. i understand the security reasons, but i think there should be fairness and respect for each other's roles.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by making it clear that i am not sitting in this chamber because there has been a 'coup d'état' in the socialist group, but for logistical reasons, so that i can give better voting instructions. president florenz has already said the essential points about the content and the difficulty of the result we have reached in the agreement with the finnish presidency. i am now obliged to say that this result is like a collective fresco: i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. in particular, there were two committees which cooperated more closely with the committee on the environment. i would like to thank mrs ek and mr nassauer, the rapporteurs of these two committees. i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs of the committee on the environment, mrs oomen-ruijten, mr chris davies, mr carl schlyter and caroline lucas, mr jens holm, mr johannes blokland, mr alessandro foglietta and the secretariats of the committees and political groups. we have had five presidencies, and the british and now finnish presidencies played a decisive role in the first reading. we also met more commissioners, because reach was launched in the previous legislature. the responsible persons were mr likanen and mrs wallström then and now mr verheugen and mr dimas. so we have seen a lot, we have had many opportunities to compare and we have distilled this work into today's conclusion. i have no doubt that the sense of responsibility of this parliament will confirm this choice, making it possible at last to send a strong message to the citizens of europe: from 1 june next year, reach will be on the move. some may think that this is not a very good product, but it will work and i am sure that it will produce results which are very important for the safety of citizens, for health, for the environment and also for the competitiveness of the european industrial system. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after this excellent result, for which i thank the house, a number of amendments are now to follow which are not covered by the compromise. i would agree with many of the amendments, but it is quite clear that voting for them, adopting them, would mean imposing a conciliation procedure for marginal aspects, which would be very wrong, in order to postpone the application of the regulation. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to point out to the house that, in accordance with this debate, two speeches were made in which voting instructions were given during the vote. it is a delicate moment, and the positions of those who, for example, will vote in favour of the amendments must also be respected. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to reiterate the thanks i have expressed earlier. it seems to me that today, in this house, on a subject which is very sensitive to citizens and businesses - as we say in italian - 'europe is striking a blow'. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i am pleased to note the success of the trilogue, which, despite its barbaric name, has succeeded in finding an honourable solution to the question of the registration of chemicals, both from the point of view of the protection of consumer health and the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises. i hope that the compromise reached last week will be approved by our assembly, thus concluding the work of three years to bring the 40 existing legislative texts together in one regulation. i am grateful to my colleagues who have accepted some of the amendments tabled by my group to protect small and mediumsized enterprises and animal welfare. the complexity of the regulation includes the safety assessment of some 30 000 substances placed on the market before 1981 and manufactured or imported in quantities of more than 1 tonne per year. this prospect is an additional guarantee for the protection of human health. despite the large number of new standards, many application aspects for a feasible and correct implementation of the reach system within specific sectors, such as cosmetics, still need to be defined. the points under discussion were numerous, as is shown by the hundreds of amendments which have been considered, but the result seems to me to be very balanced. that is why i am voting in favour of the final compromise.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the president for giving me the floor to express the reasons for the vote on mrs hieronymi's report on television activities, which i consider very important and well done. in voting in favour i have expressed the hope, both my own and that of all pensioners in italy and europe, that in future television programmes will pay particular attention to the dignity and presence of the elderly in the cultural world. it is very nice to see young girls and boys on tv shows, it is also nice for the elderly to see so many attractive men and women, but i think it is important that the qualities of the elderly are also expressed through the medium of television.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the floor for the second time on this important document by mrs roseline bachelot, which rightly seeks to protect us european citizens from the problems of globalisation. i voted in favour, hoping that in this case we would not only be able to promote globalisation through economic aid, in the form of money, but also through cultural aid. i think it's important that we realize that globalization also means one world, and so i say to the elderly that they not only have to realize that they live in a nation state, but they have to realize that they live in the world, and that in the world all the elderly, but also all the young, need something.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you, mr president, for allowing me to speak for the third time on this report by mr matthias groote on the protection of european citizens from harmful car emissions. i voted in favour of this document in the hope that in the near future there will also be a directive against pollution by governments, because unfortunately governments sometimes produce pollution which is harmful to the health and environment of their citizens. i am referring in particular, but not only, to the laws which pollute and make it difficult and unbreathable for the elderly, for the pensioners, who cannot live on an insufficient pension.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the enlargement of the european union, as proposed by mr elmar brok, because both personally and as a retired party leader in italy, i believe that the enlargement of europe must reach the whole world. europe must be extended to the whole world, because europe keeps the peace between its member states. the more countries that can join europe, the more peace we will have, not just in europe but throughout the world. so, mr president, what is the point? the european union throughout the world!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. i attended an interesting international conference in brussels last week on the role of the eu in promoting democracy in the world. many representatives of third countries expressed their confidence in the eu's support for democratization processes and thus for the promotion of geopolitical stability and world peace. the enlargement process and the neighbourhood policy have both proved to be valuable tools for achieving these objectives. i have come to realise that expectations are very high, but also that the democratic process in europe is still sometimes imperfect and that some institutional adjustments are needed. the plan d proposed for the current year by the committee on democracy, dialogue and debate is a first step in the right direction, but for the eu to play its rightful role at international and foreign policy level, it is important that it first tackles some basic issues that can no longer be postponed. for the sake of brevity, i shall mention three: the first is the ratification of the constitution, the second is the question of the single seat at the un and, last but not least, energy autonomy. the eu must be able to relaunch a strategic plan for renewable and alternative energy so that it no longer has a weak position vis-à-vis its major partners and can act decisively, that is, regardless of economic interests, even in the most serious crises.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must acknowledge that turkey is playing games with europe and with the negotiations for accession to the european union. the process of democratic reforms is completely blocked in ankara. the abolition of article 301 of the criminal code on freedom of expression is being postponed indefinitely, and we are witnessing a ballet of proposals and counter-proposals on the cyprus dossier from erdogan, who is in fact trying to evade the fundamental question of ratification of the ankara protocol. the kurdish question and the recognition of the fundamental rights of the kurdish people, which are still denied, are not to be mentioned. i repeat that my group is in favour of turkey's accession to the union, but it is now clear that prime minister erdogan has decided to respond more to extremist nationalism and to the kemalist turkish military than to europe. instead of making democracy and the rule of law the cornerstones of a new policy capable of modernising turkey in the context of the accession negotiations, erdogan has clearly chosen, at least for the moment, to be the man in charge of the old turkey. we therefore agree with the commission's decision to suspend substantially the negotiations on eight important chapters of the bilateral treaties. turkey should know that the doors of europe remain open, but they remain open to a democratic turkey which respects the rights of the peoples and the fundamental freedoms of all, of the turks and the kurds of turkey. the ball is now in erdogan's court.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on transport and tourism on the council's common position with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on driving licences (recast) [09010/1/2006 - c6-0312/2006 - 2003/0252 (cod)) ] (rapporteur: mathieu grosch) (a6-0414/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the agenda for the joint debate is the following: - the report by mr carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2424/2001 on the development of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii) (regulation) [com (2006) 0383 - c6-0296/2006 - 2006/0125 (cns)) (a6-0410/2006); and - the report by mr carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending decision 2001/886/jha on the development of the second generation schengen information system (sis ii) (decision) [com (2006) 0383 - c6-0297/2006 - 2006/0126 (cns)) (a6-0413/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the agenda includes the commission's statement on violent video games.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly grateful to the few members present in this chamber, perhaps fewer than ten, for discussing a subject which affects many tens of millions of young people and very young people, our children, in the european union. the protection of the rights and fundamental rights of young people must continue to be a high priority for the european union. it is a priority for the european commission, and i must say frankly that the acts of violence and sadism that emerge through some particularly bloody video games are a cause of great concern to us. new technologies, the ability of young people and very young people to operate on the internet, on technological games, have changed the relationship between adults and children. often, kids, our kids, know technology much better than adults. the first thing that is needed is a stronger sense of responsibility and awareness on the part of adults and parents, and attention and education so that parents can make informed choices, with full awareness of the risks. there's a system of classifying, labeling content in movies, but also in games and video games, which can help. of course, it must be combined with a mechanism of stronger education. these are necessary components if we are to achieve an effective solution. the european union already has the means to combat these worrying phenomena in the context of policies concerning justice, security prevention, but also the information society and the rules on the internal market. i must say frankly, ladies and gentlemen, that i have also greatly appreciated certain initiatives to monitor and strengthen the protection of minors which were announced to me by certain ministers of the interior before and after the council of ministers and which have been taken up by certain national political forces in certain member states. i am referring in particular to the increase in controls on the sale of particularly violent games and video games to minors. it's equally important, i think, to hold game producers accountable. in 2003, a european self-regulatory system, called pan european game information, was adopted to help parents make choices when buying video games for minors. this system of self-regulation is supported by a large majority of producers. it was developed after consultation with industry, parents' associations and consumer associations. it covers 27 countries and contains the indication of a minimum age for access to a given game and the obligation to describe the content of a game or video game that is marketed. this system, ladies and gentlemen, helps parents to choose - provided that it is the parents who decide which video game their children buy - but it does not concern and does not contain any reference to the content of the video game. this self-regulation was established, on the one hand, to protect minors, but, on the other, also to respect another fundamental principle, such as freedom of expression. i intend to meet very soon with the producers and their representative associations in order to assess the relevance, i would say the timeliness, of the indicators contained in the self-regulation programme. i think it is time to assess whether those indicators have not worked as we would have liked. as regards the content of games or video games that can be found on the internet, there are systems in the world, but they are applied and implemented on the initiative of certain authoritative consortia: the first is what we call the platform for internet content selection and the second is what we call the recreational software advisory council, both of which are located primarily in the united states. i should like to point out, however, that neither the un report on violence against young people nor the world health organisation's report on violence and health analyses this phenomenon, which is merely mentioned as if it were not absolutely necessary to go into it. in 2005, we as the european commission carried out a study funded by the daphne programme. this survey, based on a number of studies relating to the violent video game industry, highlights the need for a multidisciplinary approach, which is currently lacking. one of the findings of this study is that the influence of violent images on young people cannot be denied. however, it can manifest itself in different ways depending on various factors. for example, the welfare, the situation of the young person, where he lives, whether there is an active presence of the parents who are with him or not, the control over access to the media and the internet by young people, the fact that parents exercise or not control over whether children can access the internet in absolute freedom, the level of education that is given, the socioeconomic level of the family. all these factors have an impact on how the violent effect can be reflected in the minds and minds of the young and the very young. there are other important factors to consider: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when i speak of monitoring the sale of violent video games, i mean actual monitoring, because today there are no mandatory instruments to check whether a young person under 16 can buy video games that incite or glorify acts of violence and perhaps actual criminal acts. i think this house will at least want to consider this problem, also taking into account the fact that the programmes which daphne has funded against violence against young people are based on this very point: how to protect the young and the very young. in conclusion, following the strategy we launched in july for the protection of children, i intend to put this problem to the european forum for the rights of the child. as you know, this forum was set up in early 2007. at the first useful meeting of the forum, i intend to open a public and transparent discussion with all the stakeholders concerned, the non-governmental organisations, the member states, the parents' associations, the children, the minors and also with the national ombudsmen responsible for youth rights. the four key words on this topic are: parents, media and education professionals, producers - because if you do not prevent the production of these violent games you do not address the problem at its root - and, finally, politics. it is about examining how policy can develop a strategy that, without acts of censorship, substantially protects children. these are the pillars with which we must approach the question i have put to you tonight. in the spring, i'll be submitting a paper on cybercrime. i believe that the crimes, the offenses against the law, the violations committed through the internet make young people and the very young particularly vulnerable victims. it is our political, institutional and moral duty to react seriously, with a european strategy, against the incitement to violence, against the glorification of violence, against the glorification of violence.
i thank the vice-president of the commission, and i agree with his kind opening remark, which confirms that it is appropriate to introduce some reflections and some elements of modification to the organization of our parliamentary work, especially as regards the discussions in the chamber.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank commissioner frattini in particular for the very concrete proposals he has put forward to us this evening. there is no doubt that europe is witnessing a worrying exponential growth in incidents of violence, bullying and violence between children, and it is undeniable that television and the internet are shaping the behaviour of our children, as is the spread of violent video games, which are increasing in number and with increasingly brutal content. i'll give you an example. there's the very recent video game rule of rose, which is something really serious because it's a video game that has children as its protagonists and many of the images are borderline sexual perversion and sadism. we therefore welcome the debate which is taking place, even though - as the president pointed out - it was confined to a night time with very few participants. it's a shame, really. however, we want some action to be taken on this subject, certainly not by censorship, as commissioner reding has already said, but we share his initiative, commissioner frattini, to send a letter to the eu interior ministers asking for a careful review of the controls on violence in video games. after the words of commissioner reding, we expect the pegi (pan-european game information) system to become a more effective monitoring body. in conclusion, we strongly urge that concrete instruments be identified to control and prohibit the distribution of violent video games and that a kind of european observatory on children and minors be set up, also to monitor the contents of games and video games in advance and, if possible, to draw up a single code for the marketing and distribution of video games for minors.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the report by mr jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amendment of rule 15 and rule 182 (1) of parliament's rules of procedure - election of quaestors and office of committee chairman [2006/2287 (reg) ] (a6-0464/2006).
i think that at this stage there are no formal rules to be followed, so even if it is not possible to reopen the debate, mr voggenhuber can speak briefly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on transport unanimously adopted an opinion on the langen report, in which it stressed the need to make choices which stabilise investment in the medium to long term and which give certainty to investors, producers and consumers. i'd like this to be shot in full force. in addition, there is a need for greater clarity in the definition of second generation biofuels, in relation to the environmental impacts that their use and production may cause. it is not the same to talk about biomass from waste rather than from forestry waste or something else. it is also necessary to clarify the number of previous directives which have accompanied the policy of support for biofuels, since there are some inconsistencies which must be overcome, and above all the existing directive on the quality of fuels for blending with petrol must be redefined.
i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to make the necessary changes to the directive. first of all, it is now decided that kyoto will live on after 2012. in addition, channels of intervention have been opened which go far beyond the purchase and sale of emission allowances and which, on the contrary, foreshadow active and positive interventions. there will be two funds, one for technological adaptation and the other for renewable and clean energy. the question of technology transfer and also the fight against deforestation has finally been raised. kofi annan is right to say that these directions require stronger political leadership, and it is europe that must express this political will, starting also with the submission by the national states of serious and documented plans for reducing emissions, in line with the kyoto objectives, and starting with the massive development of energy saving and renewable sources. the european parliament, through its committee on the environment, could act as a stimulus and impetus in this direction, also through cooperation with the national parliaments. a virtuous leadership, which calls for active political support, with policies of cooperation and innovation and not with the mere mercantile logic of privatization and liberalization, which too often pursue speculative interests and not the common good. finally, a joke about nuclear: the best security is not to do it, to avoid it, to give it up because it's not good for our future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. i not only welcome the commission's green paper and mrs morgan's report on a sustainable european energy policy, but i hope that this strategy will become one of the priorities of our union as from 2007. as i had the opportunity to reiterate yesterday in this chamber and on other occasions, the eu's ability to implement an energy strategy - not only sustainable but also autonomous - and therefore its independence from the power games and economic interests that often play a role in this sector, are the key factors in many of the global challenges that lie ahead in the near future, not only in terms of competitiveness but also in terms of the political and strategic weight that the union wants and can achieve. rather than finalising strategic agreements with existing and potential partners, research efforts should be stepped up and member states should be allowed to make the most of their sustainable energy resources, each according to its own characteristics and potential.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 10.50 a.m. and resumed at 11 a.m.)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be brief. i deeply regret the decision to call for an emergency vote on the three framework programmes of the area of freedom, security and justice for the period 2007-2013. while i understand the extreme need to approve the reports by the end of the year to allow the start of the procedures for granting funding from 1 january next, i believe that programmes of such importance would at least have deserved a debate in this house. since i have not been given the opportunity to do so before, i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have worked with me for more than a year and a half: in addition to my staff, i thank my colleagues for their cooperation and the officials in the group and the secretariat for their efforts.
- that concludes the voting.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, i would like to thank the finnish presidency for the generous commitment with which it has tackled issues of great importance immigration, the constitution, climate change although we would hope that you too, with a healthy nordic realism, would come with us to the conclusion that nuclear energy has nothing to do with solving the problem of climate change or emissions, as the delays of your new plant, its prohibitive costs and the great difficulties of its construction clearly demonstrate, and as the series of accidents that have occurred in recent months in different european locations, but which have been completely silenced, also demonstrate. in conclusion, i should like to thank the presidency and say that i am very much perplexed by the way the debate has developed, which calls this summit a council for a europe of results. what are we talking about? the previous finnish presidency in tampere had achieved much more on the immigration issue. on the question of enlargement, ten years ago, before the accession of finland, sweden and austria, we in this parliament fought a very great battle to ensure that the issues of the constitution and institutional renewal were tackled earlier and better than a rapid enlargement which was certainly not good for the majority of our citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will be able to accept them. the text that was rejected in the referenda will obviously not be the same as the one that will be drawn up and that we will obviously have to seek alliances, inside and outside the european institutions, in order to solve the great problem of institutional reforms. we were also convinced, together with a group of members of this parliament, that before cyprus could be admitted to our union, the problem of the division of the island had to be solved, and today we inherit this lack of resolve from the european union as a whole. so, frankly, i see nothing particularly new or concrete. am i happy about this? no, i am not happy, but i do see the need for transparency, including with regard to our citizens. it is obvious that we are in full agreement with the idea that turkey should remain a partner, that there should be further enlargements and that the balkans should be given an unambiguous prospect of accession. at the same time, however, we cannot accept the hypocrisy which is being presented as a great novelty, namely that to speak today of institutional reform is to some extent to impede enlargement. we cannot accept it, because it is not and it does not have to be. before i thank mr poettering, mr president, i would like to make one final point on the subject of relations with russia. we must be absolutely aware that the best policy to adopt in relation to prime minister putin is a policy which makes us self-sufficient, or at least as self-sufficient as possible, which means reducing our consumption by 30% and promoting renewable energies even more convincingly. otherwise, we'll always be dependent, if not on russia, then on someone else. i too, mr president, would like to thank mr poettering for his kindness to us and also for the fact that in some cases we have been able to work together quite well. on behalf of my group, i wish him all the best for his future - which depends partly on mine, but we shall see - and i hope that he will always be able to fight for europe, because this parliament really needs it, following the line of conduct established in a certain way by president borrell, who tried to carry forward - with greater or lesser difficulty than his troops - the idea of an autonomous parliament. i hope that you too - and i would like to make this personal note - will in future, if parliament gives you a majority, be willing to leave aside certain accents that are a little too close to a religion, which are not good for europe or for parliament.
