madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the russian-ukrainian energy crisis has revealed the true face of russia as an economic partner and the hidden threat of using energy for political purposes. my country, lithuania, having decided to regain its independence and to leave the soviet union, experienced similar russian actions - an economic and energy blockade - 15 years ago. the european union, constantly emphasizing the importance of russia as a strategic partner, its uniqueness from other countries, makes concessions to it. these concessions are mainly due to the european union's increasing energy dependence on russia. but is it still unclear to anyone that russia can use similar measures in a difficult time for the european union? i therefore invite everyone not only to talk about the development of a common energy policy, but also to take immediate action to achieve it.
mr president, this year began with an emergency meeting of the representatives of the european union countries on the supply of gas from russia. and the ukraine-russia gas crisis was a wake-up call for the european union. the european union's energy dependence, with 50 or even 90 per cent of the energy resources of the eu member states owned by a single country, has long been a concern for citizens of the eu member states, as well as those living in eastern and central europe. it is also an open secret that the energy sector in the european union is still managed and regulated in such a way that one member state of the european union often pursues its interests at the expense of other member states of the european union or at the expense of other member states of the european union or at the expense of other member states of the european union. it shouldn't be like this. i therefore ask you, mr president, to ensure that, in the light of the objectives of the lisbon strategy and the increasing demand for energy, a single european union energy policy is drawn up, so that the preparation of this project is a priority on the agenda of both the commission and the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sixth wto ministerial conference in hong kong addressed a number of issues of importance to world trade. the results, however, are not very encouraging. only one report of the negotiating group on trade facilitation was adopted by consensus. there is no service performance. the commission is facing very difficult negotiations this spring. the trade interests of 149 developed and developing countries are in fact hard to reconcile. the wto, as an organization with its own rules and decision-making methods, has been failing to make decisions for five years and, we must admit, is in crisis. i therefore invite the european commission to initiate wto reform change the rules and decision-making processes, add new areas of rules such as social and environmental aspects, and promote fair competition in trade between all wto members, both developed and developing countries. and i would also like to say that trade cannot be considered as a stand-alone activity, separate from production, occupational safety and the environment, for very long. trade is only the result of economic activity.
for the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy resources and gas are one of the most important economic and productive factors for economic competitiveness and human well-being. eu member states supply energy through bilateral agreements. russia is dividing the european union by creating different supply options for member states through agreements such as the future german-russian gas pipeline. it is easier to influence a fragmented country than the european union as a whole. the european union, which has always stressed the importance of russia as a strategic partner and its uniqueness among other countries, is making concessions to russia. these concessions are in response to the eu's growing energy dependence on russia. however, recent russian-ukrainian gas supply problems suggest that russia can take similar action in supplying gas to the member states of the european union. the alternative sources that must be used to avoid absolute dependence on russia, namely the norwegian gas resources, are limited and will not be able to meet the growing economic needs of the european union in the future. is it not time to remember nuclear energy as the most environmentally friendly alternative to energy dependence on unpredictable russian actions? however, the other major eu proposal already under discussion is the common energy policy. russia would treat such a partner with more respect if it had an energy supply partner - the european commission, which represents the interests of all 25 member states. it will not be able to supply the whole eu with gas, it simply will not have where to put it. i therefore invite everyone not only to talk about the development of a common energy policy, but also to take immediate action to develop a common energy policy and, in particular, a unified energy system, thus ensuring the energy security of the eu as a whole, including political security. (applause) thank you very much.
mr president, i would like to focus on the proposals for how to solve the energy problems. in particular, the european union's external policy must promote the use of energy more efficiently, making this one of the key priorities of the european union's neighbourhood programme. it might even be worthwhile to include the energy saving criterion as one of the conditions for the granting of european union aid. in this way, we will also support the democratization processes in neighbouring countries, because we know from the experience of lithuania's reforms that economic modernisation creates a stable basis for the development of democratic processes. european domestic policy should pay greater attention to the creation and implementation of an innovation centre for the next generation of small nuclear power plants and similar technologies. if we have a successful aviation project, a great galileo programme, then we can certainly have such an innovation centre and energy programmes. this centre could operate in countries with the highest dependence on a single source of energy. i would like to believe that the commission will eventually do something concrete without the general phrases about a common energy strategy, and that such a centre will be the best proof of the achievement of the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr fruteau on the three very important reports on the reform of the sugar sector. the council agreed on the principles of the common organisation of the market in sugar and the reform guidelines back in november. this is a very important and welcome agreement. first, because it has shown that it is possible to reach agreement on matters of importance to the community as a whole, and this is what unites the union. second, we have strengthened our negotiating position in hong kong. we have shown that the community does not just make declarations, but also takes concrete action. it understands and prepares consistently, and takes the challenges of globalisation seriously. i am sorry to say that this agreement was adopted by the council without consulting the european parliament, which represents the interests of the people of europe. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important how the reform was designed and planned. but more important is how it will be implemented. restructuring is therefore the cornerstone of all three communications. the main sugar producer in lithuania is the danish company danisco sugar. it operates factories not only in lithuania, but also in sweden, germany and finland. clearly, the proposed reform will encourage the maintenance of the most efficient factories and the closure of the unprofitable ones. but we must respect the interests of both the workers and the producers of raw materials and ensure that they are not left behind. this reform must therefore primarily encourage the production of alternative products and the creation of new businesses, rather than simply withdrawing from the market. austria and finland have promised to complete the reform by the end of the year. it will be successful if it takes into account all the interests of market participants.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr fruteau, for the really great work he has done. sugar has always been, is and, i think, will be a strategic commodity. it is no coincidence that the battle over the rules for its production and trade is so fierce. we must not forget that this product is the backbone of a large part of the european union's economy, from rural areas to agriculture and industry. and there are people working everywhere. people who make up a huge part of gdp. people who earn a living, support their families, and raise their children. so in pursuit of reform, we cannot ignore these people, our citizens. we cannot ignore their interests, we cannot allow their jobs and incomes to be threatened. and that's the threat i see. it is a great pity that the commission has taken little account of the opinion of the european parliament in its proposal. the committee on agriculture and the rapporteur have tried to improve and improve the proposal, but i am not sure that they have succeeded. i tend to think that the reform is much more favourable to developing countries or the transnational companies that lurk behind them, to big business, but not to the most vulnerable sectors of society in the european union, namely farmers, factory workers and rural people in general. i therefore believe that the proposal put forward, even if it is considerably improved by the committee on agriculture, is inappropriate, unfair, insensitive and will affect very painfully millions of people living in rural areas who are already so poor.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by emphasising that the proposed resolution is far more important than any previous resolution which has considered the killing of innocent chechens in terms of whether it was committed by separatists or by elements of the russian military. the first case concerned terrorism, the second human rights violations. it follows that our assessments are not based on the facts themselves, but only on whether the offender is powerful and has oil and gas. but i would like to say that our resolutions will never be effective unless the foreign policy of the eu countries is adjusted to their content. and why, in fact, should president putin respond to our threats when he continues to be not only warmly welcomed by our countries, but even given the honorary and responsible position of chairing the g8 meetings. i would therefore like to propose that the draft resolution be adopted, so that it does not remain unfounded by adequate diplomatic action and become just another resolution which does not change anything in principle.
the president, commissioner, small businesses are one of the main engines of european competitiveness. however, i noticed that the report was rather formal and did not quite reflect the real situation. i would like to draw attention to the problems of small enterprises and business development in the new member states of the european union. unfortunately, the level of entrepreneurship in many of them, as in my country lithuania, is four times lower than in the former member states and the outlook for small business growth is not very favourable. this will reduce the overall competitiveness of the european union. business and job creation require attractive conditions for starting a business, as well as favourable financing opportunities. citizens' entrepreneurship and initiative are essential for a harmonious social development. this is still a problem in the new member states. they therefore need the european commission's support and additional new exceptional measures and conditions to encourage small businesses. how did you do that? first, it is essential to abolish the taxation of investments by small businesses, which should give small businesses greater access to capital. secondly, access to the structural funds must be guaranteed at national level for small businesses. i think a certain percentage of the money should go to small businesses. it is also necessary to simplify bureaucratic procedures, to reduce the tax burden for small innovative enterprises as much as possible by abolishing the corporate tax, especially at the beginning of their activities. (applause) thank you very much.
the so-called spy scandal in moscow has revealed the kremlin's real intentions to suppress civil society organizations in russia and the former soviet bloc countries. russia is also increasingly spending money on open propaganda campaigns, taking advantage of the european countries' dependence on russian energy, to put pressure on energy supplies. in eastern european countries, these campaigns have primarily targeted non-governmental organisations, particularly funds supported by mr soros. the aim is to undermine public confidence in institutions promoting western values and to keep the public within the sphere of influence of russian culture and politics. the eu should promote democratic processes more actively in the post-soviet space, in the eu's eastern neighbours, and should speak out against anti-western propaganda and avoid applying double standards to russia over its dependence on russian energy.
member of the commission. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for her report and motion for a resolution on equality between women and men in the european union. gender equality is not only a fundamental value of the european union, it is also an area in which europe has led the way and has always been one step ahead of social developments. the position of european women has changed significantly as a result of action at community level. first through legislation, then through assistance from the structural funds and the integration of gender issues into all community policies. the fact that the issue of equality between men and women is being unitedly supported was made clear by the member states on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the beijing women's conference, which was celebrated exactly one year ago. while there is no doubt that progress has been made in the area of gender equality, important challenges still lie ahead. the commission recalls this in the report on equality between women and men it presents each year at the spring summit of heads of state or government. we must continue our efforts and strengthen the legal basis. the motion for a resolution makes this clear and emphasises that the promotion of equality is based on three pillars: 1. legislation ensuring respect for equal treatment and fundamental rights for all persons, while ensuring the effective implementation of such legislation; 2. mainstreaming gender equality in our policies, in particular the lisbon strategy and social inclusion policy, supported by the principles of good governance and political commitment at the highest level; 3. implementing specific actions to support specific groups and objectives, such as opening up leadership positions to women or integrating immigrant and ethnic minority women. the commission has taken this approach in the past and will continue to do so in the future. its commitment to gender equality policy will be reflected and reaffirmed in the 'roadmap for gender equality' which i endorsed with president barros a few months ago and which the commission intends to present in march. this roadmap will set out the objectives and actions to promote equality between men and women for the period 2006 to 2010. the roadmap shall also indicate how the union is contributing to this issue through its policies. most of the aspects identified in the motion for a resolution will be prioritised in the roadmap, in particular the promotion of economic independence of women and men and their equal representation in management positions, respect for the principle of equal treatment and the fight against domestic violence and trafficking in human beings.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, until now the majority of voices that have been heard on this important question – and on the previous report – has been those of women. hence, it is my honour to bring this discrepancy into balance to some extent and to emphasise that gender equality can be achieved only with the support and energetic participation of men. i hope this point and the report in general will be applauded by an absolute majority of all men of the european union. a very important pledge of this report is to close the gender pay gap and to create pension schemes which are not discriminatory against women. the experience of the nordic states shows that the highest living standards and quality of life can be achieved in those countries where women are by no means less successful than men in occupying the highest political posts. we should concentrate more on the revolting and alarming rate of trafficking in women, which is, in a way, comparable to the drug trade and for which, unfortunately, there is a huge demand in the new and old member states. such crimes deserve stronger punishment across all the member states of the eu. gender equality has always been one of the most important indications of european values for the new member states. i am pleased to underline that today these states, including lithuania, have in many cases surpassed the ‘old’ members. together with my colleagues, i am happy that the european institute for gender equality is being created. the new member states have a strong argument for establishing this institute on their territory. lithuania, which in many cases, has a leading position in the implementation of gender equality policies, is more than ready to establish this institution in vilnius. once again, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs estrela.
on behalf of the uen group i would like to draw your attention to a few points. i think the gender equality problem will have a solution. first, when sex education is integrated into school and university curricula. second, when it is not limited to formal government and ministerial reports, but demands concrete results from governments on the implementation of gender equality. thirdly, when the gender equality institute is established, it will not simply collect statistical data but will appoint impartial observers who can assess the situation in each country of the european union. of course, we argued in favour of establishing such an institute in lithuania. fourth, when the european commission's observation that no project applications have been received from baltic ngos working on gender equality is taken into account, simply because these organisations do not have the funds to co-finance. they are therefore excluded from the structural funds.
mr president, i would like to suggest a minimum amendment – it affects one word – with maximum content. line 3 reads: ‘the urge for hamas to be consistent’. this could be misunderstood and read as a call to destroy israel consistently. it would be much better for it to be replaced by the word ‘cooperative’. we should urge hamas to be ‘cooperative’.
mr. chairman, i have some funny things to say. in three days, the state of lithuania celebrates its independence day. it's february 16th. but i am afraid that once again the national holiday of the state may be overlooked because there are no such traditions. i therefore propose that at least the national holidays of the countries which celebrate them on those days should be mentioned during the plenary sessions, during the plenary sessions. this can be done by various references in the agenda of the session, or perhaps by printing on this bulletin board that a country is celebrating its national day. of course, the president of the sitting could also inform members that a country celebrates its national holiday. it would certainly help us to get to know each other and bring european citizens closer to the european institutions. thank you. thank you.
ladies and gentlemen, the german-russian agreement to build a gas pipeline under the baltic sea has generated a lot of debate. the criticism is not only of germany's economic selfishness, which recalls the principle of solidarity declared by the eu, but also of russia's increased threat to exert economic and political influence on eu countries. the legacy of the second world war the chemical weapons buried on the bottom of the baltic sea fifty years ago, is a major threat. 292,000 tons of chemical weapons are threatening the marine ecosystem. the baltic sea is not an inland lake in germany or russia. in addition, six eu countries have their own citizens living here, for whom the sea is both a source of livelihood and recreation. the intensive use of the sea for fishing and other economic activities, the construction of gas pipelines and these chemical weapons are becoming a concern for the international community. in order to avoid an ecological disaster in the baltic sea, i call on the commission to undertake a thorough study of the consequences of the pipeline, which is regarded as a private commercial project, for the ecology of the baltic sea.
for the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the global market, with its information technology-driven movement of goods, services, labour and capital, is a phenomenon that we cannot deny and we must seek to exploit its positive potential. only a competitive economy can survive in a global market. the eu's internal market, once one of the strongest players in the world, is losing momentum, stagnating. asian countries, such as china, are successfully conquering the eu textile, footwear and electronics markets by exploiting the imperfections of wto rules, by failing to comply with occupational safety and environmental standards. the hesitancy of eu countries to take decisions that affect the long-term prospects for the eu's economic development threatens to undermine competitiveness in other areas as well. i am referring to the absence of a common energy and industrial policy and the threat to the eu labour market and the free movement of services. the application of the transitional new member states' labour mobility and the adoption of a services directive excluding the country of origin principle will reduce the eu's competitiveness. i therefore call on the old eu member states to abandon the transitional labour mobility and on the european parliament to vote in favour of a services directive incorporating the country of origin principle.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, three years ago the european commission proposed solvit as a tool for the out-of-court resolution of breaches of internal market rules. eu businesses and citizens can use solvit to address issues such as the movement of goods, social protection, migration, recognition of qualifications and more. solvit saves the complainant time and avoids costly legal services. this is particularly relevant for citizens and small and medium-sized businesses. solvit has the advantage that it does not have any limitation periods imposed by the courts. about 800 cases have been registered in solvit in the eu, of which 80% have been resolved. during the first year of solvit's operation, lithuania dealt with 10 complaints, of which 7 were lodged with lithuania and 3 with other countries. 90% of complaints were lodged by citizens, mainly concerning the free movement of persons. lithuania is among the countries where all complaints are resolved in a timely manner, on average within 43 days. however, there is only one solvit employee in lithuania. however, there are aspects of solvit's activities that need to be improved, both in lithuania and in other countries. the small number of cases solved by solvit shows that not only citizens but also some public authorities have little knowledge of this activity. this is a major obstacle to solving internal market problems through solvit. it is necessary to disseminate information to the public about the opportunities offered by solvit and to organise information campaigns for citizens and businesses. i invite the european commission to encourage national governments to strengthen solvit's human resources capacity and the commission itself to support solvit's activities financially.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for her determination to bring more transparency and consistency to the development and strengthening of human rights. the principle of clarity and transparency in the communication has been put under a magnifying glass. the various interpretations of the concept of 'human rights' prevent the european union from taking appropriate measures in the event of serious violations. when the council discusses the human rights situation in a country of concern, it is not unusual for one or other eu country to veto the decision without renouncing its national interest. the principle of unanimity should be replaced by a more flexible one. the political and economic power of the targeted state, its size, its ability to retaliate are inevitably considered in the choice of sanctions. it is desirable that such a situation should be kept to a minimum, so that some countries that are brazen violators of human rights do not feel that they are less than equal. the sanctions measure against a regime or a misbehaving government must be used with extreme precision. the winds of sanctions should not strike people who are often living in extremely difficult conditions and have no means of resisting the regime. the eu is still months away from opening negotiations with a country that has not yet overcome the difficulties of implementing gender equality and women's rights policies, and the dangers of discrimination on the grounds of nationality. human rights will be an important part of the negotiations, so the procedure for defining this negotiating process should also be more transparent.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr mechtild rothe, and the committee on energy. the initiative will encourage eu countries to use renewable energy sources more efficiently for heating and cooling, and create economic incentives to do so. as regards energy efficiency standards for buildings, it is worth highlighting a problem common to lithuania, all the baltic states and some other new eu countries. there, most of the townspeople live in low-quality block houses built 20-40 or more years ago. these buildings have poor thermal insulation, heat use is regulated centrally, and residents cannot choose the desired room temperature. both national governments and the european commission should pay more attention to this problem. the renovation of such buildings to ensure sustainable space heating should be financed from the cohesion and structural funds. the commission could summarise the best examples of reconstruction of such housing already carried out, helping national governments to decide whether to renovate or demolish such buildings.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out that in the talks and negotiations with serbia and montenegro, all human rights issues are of course being addressed. the common european values are of particular importance in these negotiations, and the issues raised by the honourable member will also be addressed.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in answer to this question, i would say that it would probably not be wise to anticipate now how the outcome of a possible referendum - we do not even know yet under what conditions it will take place - will affect the relationship between serbia and montenegro or between a possible new state of montenegro and the european union. the presidency and the commission are in any case concerned with the swiftest possible progress of serbia and montenegro in terms of integration into european structures. that's our goal. we cannot say at present how this interpretation will play out in the event of the separation of the two parts of the present state. but we want - and this is perhaps the direct answer to your question - to ensure that there is no interruption in the process of rapprochement with the european union, including the possibility of an independent montenegro. we have to be prepared for all the possibilities. but now it is a matter of ensuring that the process continues coherently and that we are prepared for all eventualities.
president-in-office of the council. the institution of the european court is without question an important part of the european union. no one has ever doubted that and it is certainly not something that the council has ever discussed as such, because it is beyond question. if any politician, and for that matter the austrian chancellor, contributes to the debate about the functioning of the european institutions, that certainly does not call into question the institution of the european court itself. we must be permitted to debate and discuss the functioning of the different institutions of the european union, including the european court, but, i repeat, that in no way means we are calling the institution itself into question. it is also something that the council, as an institution, has not discussed and i therefore cannot give you an answer on behalf of the council. i believe that it is justified to discuss and think about how the court and the other institutions function. that was a contribution to the debate on the future of europe.
president-in-office of the council. i take it that this is not really a question that i can answer. we certainly accept that the court is an institution set up, as you have described, by the member states; and we accept that the court decides and passes judgment and that the member states have to accept that judgment. that does not mean that one cannot comment on the judgment.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in fact, austria's criticism of the ecj's judgment on access to higher education, which you mentioned, was essentially concerned with the factual problems arising from the judgment and the as we believe strict application of the prohibition of discrimination in the field of education policy. in this context, it was also commented that - this too is something that should be taken into account - that it would have been in line with the tradition of the supreme courts to have established transitional periods, not to have established retroactivity. these are all points which constitute a factual comment on this judgment. in fact, this judgment has interfered with the access of austrian nationals to certain fields of higher education, particularly those which are important for the provision of medical services in austria. this disruption in a very important national matter is something that needs to be fixed. a solution must be found to ensure - this is certainly a legitimate aim - that enough doctors are trained each year in austria or belgium to meet their own national needs. in order to overcome and eliminate this disorder, considerations have been made. there is now a proposal - which will ultimately be decided by the european parliament, because it must be in the form of a law - to set a quota in the field of medical studies - dentistry and human medicine - which is not based on citizenship but on the presence of an austrian matura diploma, which guarantees access to higher education. this is to ensure that the number of medical doctors that austria needs nationally for health care is secured. we believe that this solution is in line with european law and also with the judgment of the european court of justice, which itself has stated that the only thing missing was that this disturbance was not documented in numbers. this documentation is now available after one year. i believe that this solution - very similar to that between belgium and france - is also very much in line with european law. i think we're on the right track here to a good solution.
the president of the council. the council, the european parliament and the commission all attach great importance to the potential of education in achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy. this is a very important contribution and certainly one of the priorities on which we must concentrate if we are to achieve the objectives set by the lisbon strategy. in addition to approving the new integrated guidelines for growth and employment, which are made up of the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment guidelines, we believe it is important to reflect on the compatibility of the lisbon strategy and the bologna process in the context of the ongoing debate on the future of the european union and in the context of institutional reflection. the bologna process, which aims to create a european higher education area by 2010, is of particular importance to our young people. the reason for this is that the rules governing access to higher education are caught in a tension between the rights of citizens of the union in the internal market and the strict respect for the responsibility of the member states for the content of teaching and the design of the education system, as enshrined in the treaty of the european communities. this tension is also found in other areas of the lisbon strategy, where national competences are confronted with european objectives and solutions must be found that respect both principles. in the field of education, this tension is particularly high. it is therefore important to find common solutions in this area, because without improving access to education, we will not be able to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr landsbergis, i can only agree with you. the council shares your concern - and the concern of many - about russia's continued reluctance to sign and ratify the border agreements with estonia and latvia. but i cannot agree with you on another point: the european union is by no means an indifferent observer, as you call it, but regularly and clearly expresses this concern to its russian counterparts, most recently at the troika meeting of the foreign ministers of the european union and russia in november 2005. she'll keep doing it as long as it takes. tomorrow, if i remember correctly, there will be another meeting of the troika between russia and the european union, at which this subject will certainly be raised.
the situation with the eu-russia border in estonia will become a real challenge for european solidarity if estonia is left alone under russia’s pressure and mockery. therefore, what is the general message of the council? is the council in favour of a clear solidarity, or of a misty gas diplomacy and a situation without responses?
president-in-office of the council. i confirm that we are unquestionably committed to bringing the european union closer to its citizens. we will act in relation to the services directive in the same way as in all codecision procedures – there are very clear rules – which means that at the beginning and end of the procedure there is an open debate. whether there is any readiness on the part of member states to go beyond what is in the rules is something that i cannot answer at this stage, but we will certainly abide by the rules, as far as the services directive is concerned. the rules already open up certain segments of the procedure to the public, and that would apply to the services directive as it would to any other. the results of the vote, the explanations of vote, the statements entered in the minutes, are all made public. i agree with the honourable member that we are not as far on as we would like to be. the process was set in motion by the december agreement. the austrian presidency is now in the process of implementing it, and is trying to go beyond that – together with our finnish friends, because it will be a long process. we are trying to make the rules more transparent, but it will take a certain time.
president-in-office of the council. i confirm that this is a goal that one should have, but i am not sure that it is achievable at this stage. as i say, it is a long-term process and it will take some time. at this stage, we should be content to take as many steps as we can, to work further on what we already have, to interpret the rules more extensively and to try – if not in our presidency then in the next one – to change the rules of procedure once again to achieve even more transparency. this is the goal, but it is something that will take some time. i am sorry if i repeat myself, but this is what it is.
president-in-office of the council. i am afraid that i cannot add much to what i have already said. the long-term goal must be more transparency. there is no doubt about that and the austrian presidency certainly shares that goal. however, there are rules that need to be changed; there are procedures that we need to adapt and we can only work with our eyes on that goal. i certainly agree with all the honourable members who have spoken that we need to get closer to the public and help them understand better what is going on in the european union and in all its institutions.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as regards the question put by mrs andrikiené, i can only say at this stage that the council of ministers, of course, takes the view agreed at the european council meeting of 15 and 16 december 2005 on the financial perspective for 2007-13. the european council stressed that the objective of economic and social cohesion must remain at the heart of the european union's policy for the duration of the next financial perspective. this is also reflected in the fact that the european council agreed to allocate more than 35% of the total budget for the period 2007-2013 to this policy area.
the truth is that time is running out, and both budgetary authorities of the european union – the council and parliament – are aware that in order to achieve an agreement in time they have to enter into constructive negotiations without delay. when will the council be ready to enter into constructive negotiations with parliament? when will the council have a mandate? what are the priorities of the presidency in the negotiations on the new financial perspective?
i am the shadow rapporteur for the anne van lancker report to the committee on employment and social affairs. i shall now turn to the regulation of the movement of workers in the directive. mr president, i first went abroad in 1990 when lithuania declared its independence. the communists had not released it earlier because my father opposed their regime. lithuania has been liberated from the communists, we are in the european union. we went to the fellowship to be useful. we believed that we would be equal partners, citizens of the union. unfortunately, that is not the case. most of the european vultures fear us more than they fear the bird flu. the year 2006 is being declared the european year of free movement of workers, but the member states are not keen to open the door. the directive proposes new restrictions. the commission's calculations show a clear benefit for countries that have liberalised their labour markets. the politicians are scaring people into believing an invasion from the east is coming and ignoring the facts. why are illegal immigrants from the former yugoslavia tolerated in austria, moroccans in france, and turks in germany? but slovaks, poles or lithuanians are considered the biggest threat there. the old members of the community have long been using the markets of the new countries. we say it's good because we believe in mutual benefit. our entrepreneurs are also looking for new markets, ready to compete fairly. they know that competition is progress and growth. they also know that only an integrated and united europe can meet the challenges of globalisation. but do we know that? unfortunately, the proposed directive would not be much different for lithuanians from the days when we lived behind the iron curtain. mr. president, europe can remain divided if its people are divided. a united europe is one in which all citizens have equal rights. first of all, the freedom of movement and the freedom to provide services.
all agree that the services directive would legalise the movement of services across the european union. and if it were adopted without substantial amendments, it would not discriminate against new countries. i am referring first of all to the preservation of the principle of the country of origin. otherwise, especially in view of the risk posed by the numerous amendments, this directive would be completely detached from the original draft and would become an insurmountable obstacle to the further development of the european union. another issue is the scope of services. i agree that education in particular is primarily a matter of national responsibility under both the treaty and the directive, and that the european union only funds general education programmes. however, if there is insufficient national responsibility and funding for common european education programmes is not increasing, then the services directive, by merely confirming the responsibility of national authorities but leaving education services out of the equation, does not address the problems of educational development in europe, but only makes them more conservative. this is, moreover, confirmed by the real decline in funding for the general education and cultural programmes between 2007 and 2013, which is very convincingly described in the letter from the committee on education and culture to the heads of all the political groups in the european parliament.
the services directive is, in my view, the most important document that the european parliament will have to adopt in this term of office. why would you do that? because it is a kind of indicator of the change in european thinking. we shall see whether europe is ready to create an internal market, or whether it is ready to liberalise it and to make it a fundamental provision of the european union. it is a pity that the lisbon objectives are still out of step with the real action. fear of change, fear of competition, fear of voter pressure still affects the actions of politicians. instead of fearing the collapse of the social model, we need to talk to people about the reality and the changes needed to make europe competitive. sooner or later, we will liberalise the market, but delay can be disastrous. and social welfare in the european union is like water in a sewer. it is now only available throughout the european economic area. to a certain extent, compromises are possible and necessary. i think the principle of country of origin should remain at its core. we have to, we have to trust each other.
while the most complex ethnic, political and other european nodes are in the balkans, the most complex are in bosnia and herzegovina. nowhere else in europe are so many freshly-cut cemeteries and so many squares and stadiums turned into cemeteries. that is why this resolution, which i fully support, is so necessary and timely. a year ago, i saw for myself that the prospect of membership of the european union makes this hard-fought country more peaceful, better. it is a path that bosniaks, serbs and croats must take with even greater determination, returning to peaceful coexistence under new conditions and institutionally consolidating it. the eu's support has been and will continue to be crucial in this endeavour. twenty years ago, people in this country could travel freely to the east and the west. now citizens of bosnia and herzegovina are restricted to a small area by visa barriers. they must be destroyed from sarajevo and from brussels. i would urge the commission to make particular efforts to enable young people to study in the universities of the eu countries, to learn about europe, its experience of reconciling former mortal enemies, the different european cultures.
the situation in belarus, with just over a month to go until the elections, leaves little hope for a democratic, free and fair presidential election in the country. today, no candidate has been officially registered yet, and there is an intense propaganda campaign by one future candidate - the current president, alexander lukashenko - carried out by the entire state media. the analysis of the press shows that the country is forming the opinion that there is no alternative to the current president, that the absolute majority of citizens will vote for him, because only a. lukashenko can ensure stability in a country whose achievements are undeniable. and the opponents of the president are worthless bastards, the west doesn't understand anything about the situation in belarus and is trying to destabilize the situation in the country, but they will not succeed because belarus has a president lukashenko. the repression against non-state media is intensifying. in this context, the european union's support is vital, but it is insufficient, late and therefore ineffective. after all, is this all the european union can do to defend freedom of thought and press in a neighbouring country? i'm not going anywhere!
besides the bad news from minsk, there is good news from vilnius. the lithuanian government has today registered the european humanities university, which was recently expelled from minsk and has resumed its activities in vilnius. this is the result of a great effort by some members of the european parliament, as well as representatives of the european commission and lithuanian diplomats. the students of this university are undoubtedly the real hope of the revival of belarus. at the same time, bad news from minsk reached us. the dictatorship intensifies repression against democratic civil youth organisations opposed to the regime. the regime has banned the activities of the association for youth and children rada. this youth organisation had already gained a wide international authority and developed the relations of the belarusian youth with many european youth organisations. i therefore appeal to all my colleagues and i trust that they will support the demand to stop the repression against the belarusian youth and its organisations.
member of the commission. of course it is not unimportant for me to underline that the commission is not underestimating the importance of these trans-european networks. however, i am really not in a position today to give any signals at all on the ongoing discussions on the financial perspectives for the period up to 2013. as i said in my initial response, it is a discussion that is going to take place in the interinstitutional areas that are always in these negotiations at this crucial time.
i would like to ask how the reduction in funding for the trans-european network projects will affect the new countries of the european union, whose transport structures, and railways in particular, are far behind those of the old european countries. in particular, will the vital baltic rail baltica project linking the baltic capitals with warsaw and berlin be implemented?
member of the commission. i did not hear a question, i heard only a statement.
member of the commission. madam president, i am sorry but i am not in a position to give any specific answers. even if i wanted to, it is simply not in my hands at this stage. it is in the hands of the european parliament, amongst others, and i ask for your understanding of the situation. there are many important areas in these negotiations that certain members of parliament want to support, which is understandable, but at this stage it is impossible. i am sorry.
member of the commission. the commission would like to give the following reply to the honourable member’s question. first, regarding the total budget for the seventh framework programme for research, the commission proposal will need to be revised in the light of the developments in the financial perspective for 2007-2013. secondly, regarding cooperation between research organisations and enterprises, in particular smes, the commission agrees that this is of crucial importance. participation by smes is, and will remain, one of the key objectives of the framework programmes. in framework programme 6, a variety of measures has been taken in order to promote sme participation in the thematic areas where they collaborate with other firms and research organisations. these measures include: support to networks of intermediaries in specific sectors of technological fields to help smes with proposals, preparations, partner searches etc.; targeted calls in areas of particular interest for smes, as well as funding schemes dedicated to sme support, the outsourcing of research by smes and sme associations. given their success, we propose that they should continue in framework programme 7. the framework programmes are thus already promoting participation by smes and their cooperation with research organisations very actively. with specific reference to the honourable member’s suggestion to set a quantified target for sme participation, the commission takes note of the fact that the council has introduced a target of 15% sme participation as part of the partial general agreement on fp7. such a target already exists in fp6, but the commission has doubts about maintaining such an overall minimum budgetary target for sme participation for the following reasons. firstly, potential participation by smes varies very much from one thematic area to another, from approximately 5% to 20%. it is therefore practically impossible to define a realistic overall target a priori and it could even be misleading. secondly, targets for smes may be perceived as compromising the objective of supporting only research of the highest quality and would go against the principles of equal access and excellence that are fundamental to the framework programme. thirdly, support to smes should focus on real measures that make fp7 genuinely attractive and beneficial for smes, through the identification of research topics, simplification of administrative aspects and so on. so the commission believes that sme involvement is best achieved by removing barriers to sme participation and that is what we want to do. it is also achieved by simplification and improvement of administrative and financial procedures, shorter time to contract, reduced reporting requirements and increased flexibility for smes to promote projects of a scope and size that best fit their needs. more account must also be taken of sme needs and potential in developing the content of the theme in the specific programme and especially in the work programme. in addition, it is very important to underline that for smes the community financial contribution may reach 75% of the eligible costs instead of the usual rate of 50%. this is the proposal which was included in the rules for participation.
thank you very much, commissioner, for a convincing answer. in any case, very considerable amounts of money will be allocated under the seventh framework programme for research and technological development. how does the commission intend to distribute these funds between the member states? preference will probably be given to large and significant projects. could it also happen that the bulk of financial assistance will be allocated to countries that are already advanced in the field of research and that those which are not will get only crumbs?
member of the commission. we are all trying to attain one of the goals which the member states agreed in barcelona in 2002, i.e. to provide 3% of gdp for investment in research and development. pulling the strands together practically is crucial. it is obvious that cooperation at eu level could show the best ways of using and investing the money. that is happening with or without our investment. this is the trend that is going on, because this is the only way in which we can truly deal with the challenges ahead of us. by stimulating that at european union level, however, we help this process go faster. that is why i agree with you totally that our common endeavours are very important for europe to benefit. today, approximately 5% of public money is spent through the framework programme at european union level. the rest is invested from the budgets of the member states. private funding is even more important than public funding. in the european union, approximately 55% of private money is invested, compared to 45% of public money. it is crucial that we try to stimulate not only the public but also the private sector. it is crucial that companies work and invest in europe. that is why it is crucially important that these companies are stimulated via the creation of proper conditions, i.e. that tax incentives are there, state aid is supporting that, intellectual property rights are in place, public procurement goes in this direction, risk venture capital is provided, and we stimulate brain circulation and so on. all these things matter. three per cent is a kind of indicator of whether we are doing things correctly. our horizontal policies which we are using across all our sectors are consistent and are those which are truly up to the challenges which we have to face today.
member of the commission. it should not be seen as the final word. we have the interinstitutional talks going on and we all know the position of parliament, which was quite definite. i always welcomed the support from parliament in our joint endeavours to stimulate education, research and development and innovation, the whole ‘knowledge triangle’. this is something which would need to be decided in the next stage of the process. i can simply say that investing at european union level in areas connected with research and development has paid off and it really matters. i very much appreciate your support.
mr commissioner, the participation of business in the success of research programmes is crucial, both in terms of the exploitation of scientific inventions and in terms of their financing. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. my question is: do you cooperate and coordinate jointly between the two commissioners and the two programmes?
member of the commission. there is no money for the relation. there is no link between the previous issue and this one.
member of the commission. in 2005 the commission signed a service contract with euronews to cover eu affairs in its news and magazines, under a strict editorial independence charter. the contract covers the production and distribution costs of the eu programmes. it was signed on the basis of the existing seven languages – german, english, french, italian, portuguese, spanish and russian – and state of distribution. it does not contain any obligation for the channel to increase its geographical coverage or the number of languages. nevertheless, the contract provides that however much the coverage or the languages increased during the life of the contract, the eu programmes would be included. one of the selection criteria was the capacity and the will of euronews to develop its geographical and language coverage. since the contract was signed, a window has been opened in romania and in the romanian language; agreements have been signed in india, china and elsewhere. euronews is also diversifying the various distribution technologies through which it can be received: cable, dtt, mobile phones, etc. however, distribution is a commercial matter over which only euronews has full command. obviously, the commission is encouraging euronews to increase by all the means under its control its geographical distribution technologies and language coverage. as far as lithuania is concerned, at present only 49 000 households out of 1.33 million are able to receive euronews via cable or satellite. euronews is a candidate to be distributed via digital terrestrial television, lietuvos telekomas, and hoping for a positive answer. moreover, negotiations are on course with the public channel, lrt, which would permit lrt to broadcast euronews programmes on their hertzian base frequencies as often as they like. a lithuanian window, similar to the romanian one, is also currently under discussion.
i would just like to say that i am very grateful for your reply and i hope that in future the commission will take care to make all these 'euro news' facilities available in all the countries where they are not broadcast and, let us say, in neighbouring countries, because television is still the most popular channel of information and information about europe.
the eu does not have a common forest policy. however, the importance of forests has led to the creation of an eu forest strategy, for which the commission is preparing an action plan. the eu forest sector is characterised by a wide diversity of forest types, sizes, ownership structures and socioeconomic conditions. about 60 percent of the forests are private. the 10 new member states have more state-owned forests than the former eu-15. in lithuania, 50 per cent of forests are state-owned, 33 per cent are privately owned and 17 per cent are reserved for restoration of property rights. in lithuania, forest management is a function of the ministry of the environment. public and private forests are managed by different departments of the ministry. the state forest has 3,000 employees, but only 120 officers control the private forests. not only is forest management challenging, but there is a gap between timber producers and processors. the question arises whether the forests would be better managed by an independent ministry of forests. could the commission provide examples of good practice in forest management?
first of all, i would like to thank my colleague heinz kindermann for his report on the implementation of the eu forestry strategy. the draft report was also discussed in lithuania. it has received good evaluations from the lithuanian forest owners' association. forests in lithuania have traditionally been an important part of the way of life, culture, mentality and economy. this is certainly an issue of concern for the european union as a whole, where 60 per cent of forests are owned by 15 million private owners and the average size of private land is just 13 hectares. the eu's overall forestry strategy is important, but today i would like to talk about the eighth element of the report, namely the promotion of competitiveness, employment and profitability in the forestry sector, and specifically its point 25, which states: urges the commission and the member states to include in the eu action plan for sustainable forest management effective measures to prevent risks and to deal with serious disasters (fires, storms, insect floods and droughts) the report rightly emphasises that the european union's forest fire prevention budget is now largely financed by rural development policy and that coordination between regional and national programmes needs to be strengthened by the development of strategic community guidelines to help harmonise the preventive measures taken by the different authorities. in this context, i would like to draw your attention to the pilot project on natural disasters, which the epp group has included in the eu budget for 2006. he was awarded eur 6,5 million. the pilot project will finance preventive measures to combat natural disasters, including forest fires and droughts. i am convinced that financing preventive measures is a much more effective way of implementing a forestry strategy than fighting the consequences of fires or droughts and compensating for the damage caused by them through the eu solidarity fund.
the author. in various parts of the world, the rule is unfortunately established: the destruction of cultural monuments is the consequence or prelude of the destruction of people. i therefore support the resolution and the view that we must take a stand on the destruction of cultural heritage in azerbaijan. in conflicts like azerbaijan and armenia, it's hard to blame only one side. cultural monuments are being destroyed as a result of the bloody conflict in nagorno-karabakh, which has claimed 25,000 lives and displaced a million people over 18 years. non-aggression, provocations from one side or the other, the desecration of cultural heritage will help to eradicate entrenched conflict. only negotiations, the search for and finding of a common political language, and goodwill towards the european union can extinguish the flame. recent polls show that a large majority of the population in both countries want the conflict to be settled as soon as possible. those countries that wish to participate actively in the european union's neighbourhood policy must indeed protect the cultural heritage of minorities.
mr president, there is almost no hope left that the presidential elections in belarus next sunday will be free and fair. the atmosphere during the election campaign is dangerous. the campaign has been marked by aleksandr kozulin, a presidential candidate, being heavily beaten by secret service men. in addition, many activists are being arrested and threatened, to stop them supporting the democratic candidate aleksandr milinkievich. in this context, statements were made by some eu office holders which i found disappointing. after it became known that the european parliament is planning to send an ad hoc delegation to minsk, commissioner ferrero-waldner stated that the members of that delegation will speak only for themselves. mr president, may i kindly ask you to remind the commission that members of this house are the only elected representatives of the eu citizens, in contrast to the members of the european commission. members of the european parliament are entitled to speak of behalf of those who elected them and not only for themselves. it is highly regrettable that the european commission makes lamentable statements instead of expressing at least their moral support for the meps who are going to observe elections in minsk, and instead of stating that in the event of any provocation by the lukashenko regime against parliamentarians they are ready to take action in their defence.
do i need to hear any more comments from all the colleagues who spoke before me? the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental freedoms guaranteed and today only declared by european community law. the new member states expect the old member states of the european union to open up their labour markets to the new member states as soon as possible, and they will only benefit from this, although it is the sovereign right of each of them to do so sooner than is necessary. the european commission's analysis shows that the influx of labour from new countries has not been as large as feared. britain, ireland, and sweden all won by letting in new workers. the decision of several countries to open their labour markets to new members of the european union from may is to be welcomed. the free movement of labour, the liberalisation of the services market and other measures would contribute to the competitiveness of the european union and increase citizens' confidence in its membership. the clarity or vagueness of a complex situation diminishes trust in the european union. in my opinion, the member states of the european union must take measures to remove discriminatory restrictions on the legal employment of lithuanian and other newly arrived citizens in the near future. this would allow people to exercise their rights effectively and enable them to pay taxes legally. it is time to break with the stereotypes of outdated thinking and to realise that freedom and healthy competition are the engines of european progress.
the final phase of the expansion is now two years old, the first part of the seven-year transition period has come to an end. the old members have to decide whether to extend or abolish the transition period. the uk, ireland and sweden opened their markets up immediately and benefited, while also encouraging the new countries to look at their labour force in a slightly different way and to evaluate it better. the labour force of the new member states is not flooding the labour markets of the eu-15. the development has led to the legalisation of previously illegal jobs. no transitional period will stop a person who wants to leave. the free movement of persons is a fundamental value of the european community. on 26 january, a council directive allowed third-country nationals who had lived in the eu for five years to move freely, study, work or reside in any eu country. why did the council adopt such a discriminatory directive against new countries? why the resistance to restore justice? the good news is that finland, spain and portugal have all agreed to abandon the transition period. austria and germany initiated the introduction of transitional periods. the results of two years have shown that the new state is not a threat. i call on austria and the other remaining states to abandon the discriminatory transition period and the discriminatory treatment of the new member states.
i'm delighted to hear this. i think it is very important for the new modern european identity. the problem of equal opportunities is particularly acute in the countries of eastern europe. it is no coincidence that slovenia, slovakia and lithuania are the countries that are seeking to establish such an institute. in eastern european countries, women are still often seen as housewives and are not integrated into economic processes. the european parliament has its own committee on women's rights. in many european countries, there are ministries, departments or other bodies dedicated to gender equality. i therefore believe that it is appropriate to create such an institution at european union level. i therefore support the efforts of the rapporteurs, mr gröner and mr sartori, and their argument that an independent institute can operate much more effectively than an institute within another agency. i want to emphasize that the institute is not only needed by women, but also by men, and it is a pity that most of the speakers today were women.
emile zola said that women are the axis around which civilization revolves. this institution should become the focal point for european gender equality issues and their implementation. the gender equality institute requires only an understanding of the problem, political will and a little money. it is much more difficult to achieve that the institute's activities change the attitude towards women, eliminate discrimination against them in many european countries. the institute should be a gathering of enthusiasts of both sexes, not just professionals. the european parliament's influence in shaping the institute's team and its constant parliamentary control are essential. the institute should assess the situation in each area, in each country, and make proposals. on this basis, the eu institutions would take effective action and demand the same from national governments. the institute should start operations in one of the new eu countries. vilnius offers not only the equality that lithuania can achieve in the areas of equality, but also the opportunity to combine the experience of the leading scandinavian countries with the potential of central and europe as a whole.
vice-president of the commission. the political message is that the european central bank is a very independent body, as determined in the treaty. as an economist and former central bank leader, i can elaborate on this subject. i can only say that europe’s monetary policy objectives are based on the fight against inflation, which has great social importance, and in this context the adjustment of monetary policy is quite a sophisticated mechanism. all borrowers want an interest rate which is as low as possible. these rates are very low at the moment in europe and they do not harm economic growth. i can only speak as an economist. the position of the commission is that interest rate policy remains in the hands of the european central bank.
vice-president of the commission. throughout history governments and central banks have adopted different and radical measures. for instance, in the united states interest rates were raised suddenly to 17% and the additional money supply was then really pressured down. but, at this stage, the change of interest rate is quite modest in the central bank. it is in accordance with the forecasts, economic considerations and outlooks. we do not intervene in those policies.
commissioner, three states – slovenia, lithuania and estonia – are going to join the eurozone next year. if those three small economies succeed in joining, what impact will that event have on interest rates and inflation in europe? are there signs of any change?
i would like to thank mr bauer for his very professional report. but we would like to see a system from it, and from this a priority, which is the first thing to focus on. in my opinion, the most important priority is the child, because he is the beginning, and the adult is only the consequence of raising that child. if a child doesn't go to school, he doesn't have a major. if a child is constantly hungry, he will become greedy and even steal. if a child is abused or sexually abused, he will become a violent adult. if a child has no parents or is separated from them, the street will welcome him. all of these are perfect escapes from the criminal world that will take such a child and turn him into a criminal. a child like that is not going to enter the job market because he's only paying for things that are not suitable for the job market. the elimination of the causes of child labour inequality should therefore be a basic priority. if we do not eliminate the causes, the other measures listed in the report will only deal with the consequences.
first of all, i would like to thank mr brok for his very constructive and logical report. i am sure that if the european union could formulate its positions in this way on all issues, it would certainly have more support and understanding from its citizens. i shall now turn to the part of the report which deals with turkey. i fully agree that the european union's enlargement strategy has undoubtedly led to democratic, political and other reforms in turkey and in the other countries mentioned in the resolution. however, it is equally important to note that, quote, 'although the political transition process in turkey is still under way, the pace of reforms slowed down in 2005 and the implementation of reforms remains uneven'. that is precisely the answer i received yesterday from mr rehn, member of the european commission, to my oral question on the implementation of the european parliament's resolution on the opening of negotiations with turkey. the draft resolution we are considering today also notes this, namely that the pace of reform in turkey in 2005 was not only insufficient but also slowed down. this could be interpreted as turkey's unwillingness to undertake reforms that would bring it closer to the european union, or even as a reluctance to take on the initial obligations of possible membership. i fully support the regret expressed by mr brok in his report and in the draft resolution over the unilateral declaration by turkey on the signing of the additional protocol to the ankara treaty. i think it is necessary to remind turkey that the recognition of all the member states of the european union is an essential part of the accession process. it is true that what i am about to say is not in the report, but i am convinced that turkey should recognise at the highest level the acts of genocide against the armenian people that took place nine decades ago, because this would be more than many other acts a sign of turkey's attitude in the spirit of the copenhagen criteria, let alone the painful events of the past.
for the alde group why is biodiversity important? the answer is simple, because it directly affects us humans. man is part of the biodiversity, man acts on the living organisms around him and is himself affected by them. yet, it is man who is destroying an unknown number of species every day, contributing to climate change, pollution, and the destruction of natural habitats. in the absence of natural analogues, human activities are often disastrous for biodiversity. the data available in the various european countries on the state of bird and mammal populations and their abundance indicates that the long-term conservation of many of these species is not guaranteed unless there is a rapid and decisive change in the biological conservation strategy and policy. the so-called simplified conservation strategy of trying to cater only for the needs of the most endangered species is no longer appropriate. i welcome the european union's ambitious target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010. to achieve this objective, it is necessary to develop a system of biological monitoring indicators to help assess progress in the implementation of the commitments under the convention on biological diversity. national action plans need to be developed and data collection, analysis and dissemination need to be coordinated at international level. of course, this requires financial investment. today is international consumer day. it is symbolic that today we are talking about the conservation of biodiversity. the increasing promotion of consumption, which is said to boost economic growth and the well-being of everyone, is increasingly damaging the environment.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. i congratulate mrs thyssen on her excellent analysis of the european commission document. it is also welcome that the european parliament's leadership has decided to separate the consumer protection document from the healthcare document. failure to do so would leave consumer protection in the shadow of health protection. however, the separation of the document does not mean the actual separation of these problems. unless the management of the two systems is separated, both areas will be managed by the same agency. the committee on legal affairs considers that the integration of consumer protection into civil law is essential to improve the protection of consumer rights. the commission's directorate-general for health and consumer protection must work closely with the directorates-general for justice and the internal market, since consumer protection is also a part of their function. it is clear that, with the expansion of the internal market, the protection of consumer rights becomes practically impossible in a single country without close cooperation with other eu member states. the eu consumer agency therefore needs to work closely with both national agencies and, in particular, with civil society organisations, as they manage all information on breaches of consumer rights. we need to know that the most vulnerable consumers are children and the elderly, because they are unable to defend their rights effectively. this is the category of people that needs special attention from the agencies. the legal affairs committee has tabled amendments which confirm the above-mentioned statements. i would ask everyone to support mr thyssen's report and the amendments by the committee on legal affairs.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i wish to begin by thanking our colleagues who initiated this very important debate and resolution on the situation in moldova, and transnistria in particular. the transnistrian conflict, frozen since 1992, was recently described as a front line in eu-russia relations. following long discussions and major preparatory work, last december the eu finally launched a new mission – the eu border assistance mission to moldova and ukraine – thus contributing to both countries’ joint action to fight against smuggling and black-market trade in the region. surprise, surprise! this very balanced move led russia to put its 1100 troops – so-called peacekeepers – in transnistria on alert last week. the illegal regime of transnistria, which is not recognised by any democracy in the world, broke off the 5+2 talks. we should express our concern about the human rights situation in transnistria, where people do not have the right to hold democratic elections, where harassment, repression and intimidation of the independent media, human rights defenders, ngos and opponents to the self-proclaimed regime is common practice. in addition, we should express our support for the moldovan and ukrainian authorities working to stabilise the situation in the region and free it from corruption, smuggling, etc. i call on the commission and the council to support the moldovan authorities in their democratic reform process and use all diplomatic means available to solve the transnistria conflict.
member of the commission. mr president, let me first answer a few of the political questions, then also say a word about belarus. i will also be very happy to respond to mrs schroedter before talking about the real substance of today’s debate: human rights. first, on the political issue, moldova is a country in the european neighbourhood policy and we are trying, through that policy, to bring moldova closer to the european union and – i point this out to mr posselt – slowly democratise it, although a lot still has to be done. however, this is the way forward. for that purpose, it is also very important to cut the illegal trafficking of goods, people, arms, perhaps also drugs, and to cut criminal activities. i thank all those who have mentioned a border mission. the european union has introduced a border mission very recently in transnistria, between moldova and ukraine. we have to thank ukrainian president yushchenko who, when he came to power, really started this initiative and has taken it up together with president voronin. with my colleagues the foreign ministers of ukraine and moldova, we have succeeded in putting this in place. i think it works quite well, by the way, under a hungarian leader in this region. its real objective, in my view, is to cut illegal trafficking. that is not always easy, but in the long run it will reach its goal. you all spoke about the transnistrian conflict and how we can resolve it. indeed, the osce has been trying to do everything to help and the european union is more and more involved too. by the way, we have achieved some progress because the russians did in fact accept the ‘five plus two’ talks to which we, the european union, together with the united states of america, have been invited as observers in order to find a settlement. it is true that russian troops have not yet been withdrawn, as had been foreseen at the osce in istanbul, and this still has to take place. of course, the question is, what will replace them? first, all things political have to continue, although, unfortunately as someone said, transnistria did in fact walk out of the talks before. therefore, a lot still remains to be done. now i come to belarus and, with your permission, i will continue in german. frau schroedter, ich glaube, hier hat man mich zuerst vollkommen missinterpretiert. der journalist, der in brüssel in unserem saal bei der pressekonferenz saß, hat mich als kommissarin gefragt, ob wir als europäische kommission eine election observation mission der eu nach belarus schicken. ich habe gesagt: „nein, denn es ist die osze/odihr, die beobachtet“. sie wissen, dass das richtig ist. dann habe ich hinzugefügt, dass die parlamentarier eben nicht teil einer offiziellen eu-mission sind, weil wir gar keine haben. das ist vollkommen missinterpretiert worden. nehmen sie das bitte noch einmal als meine erklärung. ich freue mich, dass sie die sache angesprochen haben, denn damit konnte ich sie aufklären. ich habe gestern nicht nur einen brief an herrn klich geschrieben, sondern auch mit ihm geredet; er hat es voll verstanden. ich habe heute schon zu belarus, wo ich natürlich laufend die vorfälle im vorfeld der wahlen beobachte, eine erklärung abgegeben, in der ich auch gesagt habe, wie sehr ich es bedaure, dass die parlamentarier – die uns natürlich immer willkommen sind, das ist ja selbstverständlich und das sollten sie wissen, wo ich mich so viel auf die eu observer missions einstelle und etwas dafür tue und sie eigentlich verstärke – nicht zugelassen wurden, indem man ihnen die visa verweigert hat. i am coming to my third point, which concerns today’s debate on the resolutions on breaches of human rights in moldova. the motion for a resolution draws attention to the failures of the judicial system to secure fair trials. i should note that in 2005 moldova adopted three laws which significantly strengthened the independence of the judiciary. so far as the pasat case – the case of the former defence minister – is concerned, the commission has raised the problems surrounding this case several times. i am in direct contact with mr stratan, the moldovan foreign minister. i have just written a letter to president voronin on this issue, in order to have transparency and not to delay mr pasat’s appeal. democracy, the rule of law and human rights will feature very prominently at the forthcoming cooperation council meeting with moldova. today’s debate puts special emphasis on human rights in transnistria. however, as you all know, because of its status as a self-proclaimed independent republic, we have only limited insight concerning developments in transnistria. however, it is clear that there are very significant problems. in summer 2004, for instance, the transnistrian authorities forcibly closed six schools that taught the moldovan language using the latin script. we are pleased to see that negotiations between moldovan and transnistrian officials on the issue of these latin-script schools restarted in february after a hiatus of seven months. the commission will follow the development of these negotiations very carefully. let me say a few words about the ilascu case, which remains a very serious example of the violation of human rights. since moldova is unable to intervene in transnistria, we raise the issue with russia whenever the opportunity arises. the last occasion was about two weeks ago in vienna at the troika of foreign ministers, when i met foreign minister lavrov. the recent reports that andrei ivantoc, one of the two prisoners, has begun a hunger strike underline the need for the immediate release of both prisoners. we have to apply pressure to make that happen. the commission is working with all the partner countries, including russia, ukraine and moldova, in order to achieve a withdrawal of the russian troops, the demilitarisation of transnistria, the democratisation of moldova – including transnistria – and the establishment of effective and legal control of transnistria by moldova proper.
author. a prominent kazakh politician and opposition leader a. sarsenbayev, together with his driver and bodyguard, was brutally murdered on 13 february in alma-ata. recently, another opposition leader, z. nurkadilov, was found with three gunshot wounds after accusing the government of corruption and the murder of independent journalist sharibzhanov. the official version of the investigation is suicide. kazakhstan, one of the most advanced countries in the region, is trying to position itself as one of the world's democracies. moreover, he is seeking to assume the osce chairmanship in 2009. an organisation with the task of ensuring democracy and stability within and outside the community. former deputy chairman of the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities of the supreme council of the armed forces. we recognize that the economy of kazakhstan is growing rapidly. kazakhstan is a very important trading partner of the community, but, ladies and gentlemen, we are not only an economic union, but also a union of values. we cannot be guided by narrow economic interests in foreign policy and we cannot, under any circumstances, tolerate human rights violations. president n. nazarbayev frankly admits that there was no democracy in his country and we cannot demand that it emerge so quickly. it is trying to convince that managed democracy can be in kazakhstan, but in essence, it is a desire to justify the authoritarian regime of the soviet era. mr. chairman, we all know that democracy either exists or it doesn't. it cannot be controlled or shared.
from my own experience of reforms in my country, i can say one thing with certainty: no economic, political programme can be implemented without reforming the institutions themselves. i find it difficult to imagine how the european commission, by declaring regulatory simplification as its objective, does not itself change its structure, does not reorganise the work of its institutions which produce these complex documents. it's just unthinkable and it's not compatible. i can give you the simplest example. a delegation of lithuanian teachers recently visited. they went around to different directorates hoping to find out about the work of the directorate. they were exposed to the same information everywhere. and the commissioner came to our budget committee and said that not all the funds are being used for public relations, for information programs. but all the work is duplicated. the lithuanian teachers were extremely surprised. we must do something about the reform of the european commission's work. the european parliament at least shows initiative and seeks to reform its work if we are to achieve these ambitious goals. i always regret that we do not draw on the experience of new countries. we, the new countries, know very well that the first thing we need to do is reform the institutions. i hope that the european commission will present its programme for reforming the governance structure in the near future.
this resolution is a very important and timely document expressing the european parliament's position on the changing situation in the energy sector in the european union. the resolution is the beginning of the consideration of the green paper on a secure, competitive and sustainable energy policy in europe. in addition to energy efficiency, the resolution mentions the diversity of energy sources as a key factor in reducing the dependence of the member states of the european union on energy supplies from third countries. the nuclear energy sector receives a great deal of attention, as nuclear energy is an integral part of the european union's energy system. it is very important for lithuania and other countries that do not have enough wind, solar, land or other alternatives to gas and oil. it is right that the initiative to develop nuclear energy should remain a prerogative of the member states. legislation is needed to ensure that a proportion of the agricultural policy budget is used for the cultivation, production and energy use of biomass. the principle of energy solidarity between member states is of great importance. it's important to negotiate with the outside. member states should assess the implications for other countries when planning projects in the energy sector. i would therefore like to call for a review of the ten annexes. the list of projects is controversial, i would say, political northern gas pipeline in the baltic. unfortunately, there are no projects of importance to the baltic states and poland, such as the amber gas pipeline or the electricity interconnection, which could bring the isolated baltic region into the european space quickly.
mr president, security of supply as a formula for a real problem should contain concrete eventualities of insecurities, which should also be listed specifically. we should provide measures on how to cope even if there is a bombing of pipelines or electricity transmission wires. both have been experienced recently by georgia, where nobody was in any doubt about the political masterminding behind these acts. there are also categories of natural catastrophe able to interrupt supply. the document on the security of energy supply in europe avoids mentioning europe’s preparedness for such disasters, let alone any blasts in one’s mind affecting supply. a potential attacker when eager to use energy as a weapon may be stopped only by the knowledge that his move brings no political gains and only drawbacks for himself, while the targeted state is immediately assisted and compensated by actions of communal solidarity of the union. that is what we should work on without any delay. the resolution omits this. as we are now debating security versus insecurity, there is also the real environmental insecurity related with building a pipeline and supplying the west in such a vulnerable way as via the bottom of the baltic sea. there is a strange silence about chemical shells and bombs from world war ii lying in huge quantities, rusting and waiting for their own armageddon. as the clock is ticking this mechanical work of building of pipelines may move ever faster towards an enormous disaster. who would suffer? nobody, but some unimportant smaller nations on the eastern coast of the baltic sea. who is giving guarantees to us baltic nations about both energy and biological survival? germany? commissioners of the split union? we have a right to expect proper policies and concrete european guarantees. only then will europe have the reason to use the word solidarity.
the development and implementation of trans-european networks is an essential and indispensable pillar for achieving the objectives set out in the european commission's 2001 white paper and for implementing the lisbon strategy. however, the tens were only evaluated if they were properly designed, financed and implemented. in view of the european council's proposal for the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 in december, it is clear that the evaluation of projects will be confronted with obvious financial difficulties. i therefore believe that the european union could contribute more to implementation by promoting measures such as: a more flexible approach to the use of the structural and cohesion funds to finance the trans-european networks, the funding of the galileo programme from the research budget line. it is also necessary to prioritise projects, giving priority to projects such as the railways, which are already the most advanced in the world today, and the so-called cross-border rail corridors.
as the decision on the enlargement of the euro area approaches, the criteria for adopting the euro are becoming increasingly politicised. the ecb president stated that the criteria must be met not only during the assessment period but also in the long term. in recent years, one of the maastricht criteria inflation has been influenced by the rise in the cost of energy an external factor independent of the economic governance of the country. it is very difficult to maintain a high economic growth rate and low inflation. in addition, the random depreciation of some goods in finland and the netherlands, which have the lowest inflation rates, should also be taken into account in the definition of the inflation criteria, and the methods of determining the criteria should be improved. in lithuania, inflation may exceed the expected criterion by very small margins. for six years it has been well below the requirements of maastricht, but in a fast-growing economy it is difficult to keep prices that low. after the failed referendums on the constitutional treaty, without a common foreign and energy policy, let us at least expand the euro area and give the european union a new impetus for development.
the european parliament awaited the presidential elections in belarus, which were due to take place on sunday. it is true that the election campaign has given little hope that the elections will be democratic, free and fair, because the campaign took place in an atmosphere of intimidation, arrests of opposition leaders, suppression of an independent press. the lukashenka regime is responsible for all this, but some still had hope that the elections would at least be fair. unfortunately, instead of elections, we saw an electoral farce - rigged elections, like those organized in the 1950s and 1960s in eastern europe, and in soviet-occupied lithuania. the findings of the osce monitoring mission confirm this, but the 'scientific revolution' is not over. about 600 young people also spent the night in tents in oktyabrskoye square in minsk, despite the 10 degrees celsius temperature. yesterday, they were visited by the ambassadors of 11 eu countries, in a show of european union solidarity. mr. president, we must demand that the presidential elections in belarus be held again.
first of all, i would like to thank mr leinen for his very responsible report. i would like to stress that support for the activities of european political parties at the level of the eu institutions is of particular relevance at this time. and here's why: some political scientists, at least in lithuania, argue that political parties are already losing their ideological foundations and are becoming similar. if this were to happen, the decisions of the parties, without an ideological basis, would be unpredictable. this would mean that the voter would no longer be sure what one party or another would do if it came to power. this would mean that voters would no longer care which party they voted for or whether it was worthwhile to participate in elections. this is a very dangerous trend and it is necessary to strengthen the local european parties by all possible means, including financial means, each of which has a left or right ideology, which would become the backbone of the left and right parties in individual countries. i therefore propose to approve the report.
the recent events in belarus have made two things clear: first, that a fundamental review and concretisation of the european union's strategy for belarus is urgently needed and that the positive dynamics of a growing civil society should not reassure either the leaders of the european union or the parliaments and governments of the member states of the european union. the wave of repression will not diminish but increase, so the first task is to protect the forces opposing the regime and their leaders from repression. such specific binding strategies should be adopted by the parliaments and governments of all member states of the european union, not just those that share a border with belarus. secondly, the top of the regime should be isolated, and information support for the belarusian people should be strengthened in every way, and new contacts should be developed and established with all layers of civil society: businessmen, academics, artists, cultural figures, journalists. i think that lithuania has already set a successful and concrete example by hosting the only university that was once free and later expelled from belarus. providing such study opportunities in higher education institutions for young people in belarus and in higher education institutions in the european union is an unquestionable priority of such a common european union strategy.
as a member of parliament elected in lithuania, the demographic problem is of great concern to me. it is precisely because of the continuous decline in the population in lithuania, not so much because of emigration, but because of the rapid decline in the birth rate, which has already resulted in the closure of some schools. the lithuanian government's measures to address this problem are clearly no longer sufficient and the emergence of european-level documents is therefore welcome. but the decline in birth rates is not just a problem in lithuania, it is a problem in europe, and when our families have less than one and a half children, the children in asian countries, including turkey, which is a candidate for membership in the european union, are born like mushrooms. what this might mean in the not-so-distant future is a subject for our deep reflection. we can and must overcome this demographic crisis with real work and programmes. they must be such that each family can afford to have at least three children. this is the spirit of the document, and its adoption should be followed by practical decisions.
commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and say that i support the agreement reached, but i would like to point out again that the member states belonging to the baltic region are today practically isolated from european energy systems. regrettably, the tens' appendices were not adjusted to take account of the geopolitical situation. the list of priority projects remained controversial with the northern european gas pipeline bypassing the baltic countries, poland, and projects that were proposed to be moved to the list of priority projects of particular importance to this region, such as the gas amber and the yamal ii, which could run through belarus, or additional synchronised electricity connections, were not discussed in the european council. it's not right. the european commission is to draw up a priority interconnection plan in 2006 which will include specific measures for the integration of isolated energy markets. member states must act in solidarity when assessing common interests. this is the only way to ensure the security of energy supplies throughout the european union.
the objectives of the proposal for a decision under discussion today are clear: to adapt the guidelines to the enlarged european union of 25 member states, to allow for the financing of projects of common interest, to facilitate the establishment of the internal market in gas and electricity and, above all, to ensure the security of energy supply by connecting member states' networks to each other and to neighbouring countries, countries of the south-east european and mediterranean regions, ukraine and others. the european parliament has already given its consent at first reading to the commission's proposals on the prioritisation of activities, the description of projects of european interest and the appointment of a european coordinator for complex projects. however, the council took a different view, proposing, for example, to abandon the european coordinator and other important provisions which we had already agreed to. instead, the council only agreed to the minor amendments contained in the parliament's resolution, and in supporting the creation of a trans-european network, the council regards the network as nothing more than a simple combination of member states' networks and the coordination of energy policy measures of the member states of the european union. i don't think that's enough. the european union's energy market is home to more than 450 million consumers. this is the second largest market in the world. if the eu acted as one, it would be able to defend and enforce its interests. i would point out that we need a common european energy policy, in the light of the recent crisis in ukraine and russia and the hampton court declarations. we do not have enough individual politicians in the 25 member states. the creation of a european network, in turn, is only possible by improving and extending networking. as regards projects of common interest and priority, i would like to recall the amber transit pipeline project and consider its inclusion in the list of priority projects of european interest in the project guidelines. considering that the implementation of the projects will improve the security of energy supply of the baltic states.
i welcome the debate on the guidelines for trans-european energy networks, which was welcome and necessary. the three new eu countries, the baltic states of lithuania, latvia and estonia, remain outside the european energy system. trans-european energy networks must be of common interest to the union as a whole, linking energy in the internal market of the member states and with their eastern and southern neighbours. without the creation of trans-european networks as the eu's top priority for energy security and economic competitiveness, the eu will remain on the periphery of the energy market. lithuania, being dependent on russian gas and oil, being a nuclear power country, cannot afford to become dependent on russian electricity supply. it is necessary to start as soon as possible the construction of an electric bridge between lithuania and poland and to connect estonia and finland by an electric cable. the baltic single electricity market would become an integral part of the eu electricity market. i call for solidarity in support of the energy integration of the baltic states into the eu.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr papastamkos, and pass on apologies from my colleague, mr mandelson, who would have preferred to be here personally, but came back today from rio, where he spent a couple of days trying to come closer to a common understanding with his counterparts from the united states and brazil, as well as with mr lamy, the director-general of the wto. mr mandelson asked me to update you on how he sees the state of play on the round in light of this weekend’s events. unfortunately, the talks in rio did not lead to a significant breakthrough. however, they were an important further step to get a better understanding of each other’s positions. we need to understand the pressures on, and aspirations of, our partners. it is not about forcing others to move to our position. it is about understanding where everybody stands and then seeing how our positions can be brought to meet in the middle in a way that brings sufficient gain to all of us. there are still differences, but key players are not talking over one another’s heads as much now. there has to be simultaneous movement now. as far as the timing and the deadline to agree on arrangements for agricultural and non-agricultural market access by the end of april is concerned, that is still a possibility. however, the contours of the potential deal are not yet fully there. mr lamy summarised the state of play after the rio meeting by calling on brazil to be prepared to open its industries to foreign competition and by calling for the eu and the us to sweeten their offer to open farm markets. that shows that the european union finds itself in a better position than it was before and in the immediate aftermath of the hong kong conference. members now realise that an advance on the eu’s agricultural offer is not currently in the making and that the success or failure of the round cannot depend on that one factor, but on overall balance. the equation to solve between the competing interests of the wto members is not easy. however, our objectives and our ambitions remain unchanged: creating genuine new business opportunities in agricultural and industrial products and services in developed and advanced developing countries, as well as contributing to development; restructuring trade in agriculture; and strengthening multilateral rules. we can only attain our objectives through a broad and ambitious round. we are paying into the round with proposed real reductions in agricultural tariffs, as well as trade-distorting subsidies, if these are matched by real cuts in industrial tariffs and genuine additional services liberalisation by those who can contribute. we also need to preserve the single undertaking outside of agriculture and industrial goods. in that respect we would to thank mr papastamkos for his excellent report. we thank you for the support for an ambitious and a genuine development round. we agree with the approach taken by the rapporteur, who has underlined the need to make progress on all issues in this wide-ranging agenda, with a clear emphasis on the objectives of poverty reduction and sustainable development. we very much appreciate the support of this house in pursuing them. however, by referring to a genuine development round, let us not fall into the trap of simplification and generalisation that dismisses the fallacy that agricultural liberalisation would only be a magic recipe for development. as laid out in an interesting study by the carnegie endowment, the bulk of the benefits of agricultural liberalisation are limited to developed countries and a core group of highly competitive farm exporters, especially brazil, argentina and south africa. other elements should be taken into account such as the impact of preference erosion in poorer developing countries. for all those reasons, the key gains for developing countries in the dda lie not in agriculture, but in trade in industrial goods, especially in labour-intensive industries such as shoes and textiles. another fallacy which your report rightly breaks is that within the developing country group all countries are equal. they are not. if we want this round to truly deliver its development potential, then that needs to be taken into account. contributions to the round should be based on capacity to contribute. developing countries do not have identical interests and capacities in trade. that is a matter of common sense. we accept that developing countries should, as a general rule, contribute less in terms of market access than developed countries. however, advanced developing countries should provide a meaningful contribution through genuine new market access in non-agricultural market access and services, albeit less than developed counties. they should only do two-thirds of what we do. that is what we call the principle of less-than-full reciprocity. as for other developing countries, we agree that they would take up fewer commitments in line with their level of development or, as far as least-developed countries are concerned, even no commitments at all. we need to continue to work for trade justice. one of the main achievements of the hong kong ministerial conference last december was the acceptance by other developed countries to follow the eu way of granting a duty-free, quota-free access to products originating in least-developed countries. but, as you report rightly points out, it is to be regretted that the decision still allows rich countries to exclude 3% of tariff lines. since we are approaching the end phase in this round, we now need to deal with all negotiating areas simultaneously. that requires an intensification of quiet contacts with key partners – like the meeting held last weekend in rio – to map out potential final packages. at the same time we must continue to reach out to the entire wto membership, in particular the ldcs and the mid-range developing countries, to build multilateral consensus. mr lamy has a crucial role to play there. the final deal must serve the interests of all wto members and especially the least-developed countries and the other weak and vulnerable members. even though this is becoming increasingly challenging, we will continue to work towards deadlines agreed in hong kong, such as that concerning agreement on the arrangements for agriculture and industrial tariffs by the end of april. at the same time we will ensure that other issues in this round that will take longer, such as services, rules and geographic indications, remain part of the single undertaking. we will continue to inform you and listen to your views on the major developments in this round.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the economic and monetary committee. in the light of the opinion of the economic committee, i would like to point out that the present report is better balanced than the previous documents on similar subjects. however, it is regrettable that this report and very often the negotiations themselves pay too little attention to the problems of the european union's services sector in trade, which accounts for 70% of the european union's gross domestic product. in emphasising the importance of this sector and the importance of international trade in services, i would like to touch on only two aspects. this is particularly true for the financial sector. the limited access to a variety of advanced financial products in developing countries, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which employ a large proportion of their populations, is holding back the modernisation of their economies and the shift of their labour force from agriculture to higher productivity sectors. on the other hand, the european union institutions cannot exploit the huge potential of the financial services industry. we're very competitive in this area. and we have problems with agricultural trade with developing countries. so we really need to try to change the structure of trade both to make it easier to work and to make the modern economy a global modern economy. so we should encourage trade in financial services, which would allow developing countries to modernise their economies and at the same time make the structure of international trade more efficient. this means, of course, that we should talk about the introduction of standards for business regulation, corporate governance, financial market regulation.
for the alde group scientists have long recognised that there is no magic bullet to create jobs, solve all employment problems and boost competitiveness, but that there are many factors and it is simply a matter of finding the right combination. the problem is that this combination of factors is different for each country and has to take into account the specificities of the national economy. the failure of the international monetary fund to develop a uniform, universal model shows that we hardly need to try to develop a european model of economic strategy. i think there are three main things that need to be emphasized. first of all, we should agree with mr garcia margallo that all the economic policy documents need to be consolidated, there are too many of them and they are repetitive. secondly, it is necessary to define a mechanism for the interaction between national and european economic strategies. and thirdly, this can be achieved by setting clear and specific priorities that complement each other.
changes in the world economy, the processes of globalisation and their consequences for the competitiveness of economic blocs, of national economic sectors and of enterprises are new challenges for the european union, which is losing its competitiveness and is not ready for the challenges of globalisation. in the competitive battle, the eu is losing to the us, china, india. the eu should prepare itself for the challenges of globalisation by reforming itself from within. we have not adopted a constitution, a strict financial perspective, and less money for trans-european networks. there is no common energy policy, and the security of energy supplies, which are the basis of economic competitiveness, is threatened. the enlargement of the euro area to include new candidate countries, slovenia and lithuania, would be one of the actions and solutions to boost economic growth. i would like to mention two important factors for increasing the eu's competitiveness: investment in knowledge and innovation and the progressive development of a common energy policy. these are interrelated factors: innovation makes it possible to become a leader, and in the sector that determines competitiveness, energy, innovation makes it possible to create new sources of energy and to use existing ones in a rational and economical way. while the financial perspective for 2007-13 is still being negotiated, funding priorities should be reviewed and funding for science, research and trans-european networks should be increased. on the competitiveness of the eu economy, i would like to mention one of the most successful eu projects: the introduction of the single currency, the euro, in 12 member states. the euro area's approach to expansion also shows weaknesses: non-compliance with the requirements of the stability and growth pact, high public debt, and almost all euro area members failing to meet the price stability benchmark at various times. five years of experience show the need to improve the maastricht criteria themselves. however, the euro area has been and remains, in essence, a political project that has proved its worth and must be continued in a new phase of development.
i welcome your comments on third country nationals and this problem in general. i congratulate the rapporteur on a very balanced report. the free movement of labour is not only a fundamental right of the european union but also an expression of solidarity between new and old countries. so i'm pleased to see that all my colleagues are unanimously in favor of lifting the restrictions. in response to today's global economic challenges, i believe that removing barriers to the movement of citizens and labour on the european union market is one of the key objectives of the lisbon strategy and a key driver of economic growth. active workers from the new member states of the european union can contribute to long-term economic growth with their accumulated human capital. in addition, the market may become more efficient, as foreign workers tend to respond more actively to regional differences in economic opportunities. ireland, the united kingdom, and sweden all benefited from the new states. these member states have high economic growth, lower unemployment and higher employment than other countries. it is also concluded that the new member states' nationals complemented, rather than replaced, the old member states' nationals in the latter's labour markets. statistics from the member states of the european union show that migration from third countries exceeds migration flows within the european union. the decision of the countries to open their labour markets to the new european union countries from may this year is to be welcomed and applauded. i would say that the austrian and german governments, which are chairing the council, should be ashamed of their phobias, of their inability to talk to their citizens about this issue. the opening up of labour markets is, of course, a sovereign right of every state.
we all know very well that the free movement of workers is one of the four fundamental freedoms on which the whole idea of the european communities is based. however, we also know that this freedom is only available and fully exercised for citizens of the 15 old member states, while for citizens of the 8 new member states, which joined the eu on 1 may 2004, there are transitional provisions and the transitional period can last up to seven years in the 2+3+2 years formula. moreover, under some eu directives, long-term residents from third countries sometimes enjoy more privileged rights of residence and access to the labour market in the 15 eu member states than citizens of the eight new member states. this means that solidarity with workers from third countries discriminates against workers from the new eu member states. with the first transitional period ending on 30 april, we have a great opportunity to assess its implications, its consequences for the economies of the 15 old member states and the 8 new member states, and to take the appropriate decisions. it is true that we lack statistics on intra-community migration. it is difficult to draw objective conclusions, but it is already clear today that migration from third countries far exceeds migration flows within the eu, i.e. within the fifteen member states and across the enlarged eu. it is also clear that countries that have opened their labour markets to new members have not really lost, and that the transition periods have encouraged illegal work, unfair working conditions, discrimination and exploitation of immigrant workers. i am convinced that the european parliament must call on the member states to abolish the transitional provisions in force, as there are more than enough arguments to do so.
author. – thank you for your response to my question. the maastricht criteria are being strictly applied to those countries which are applying for entry into the eurozone. lithuania cannot be accepted into the eurozone, even though it currently exceeds the inflation criteria by a mere 0.1%. lithuania complied with this condition over the past six years, as did others. in the current eurozone, many members are infringing one or other of the maastricht criteria. for instance, some large countries for many years breached the conditions on budgetary deficit without receiving a red card, the same with inflation and other criteria. are the new member states not being discriminated against here with these double standards?
member of the commission. first of all, i am responding to mr posselt by trying not to speak so fast. the objectives i have mentioned, concerning when the member states wish to join the euro area, are dates defined by themselves. at the time, the first three, estonia, lithuania and slovenia, announced that they wanted to join the eurozone in 2007. for its part, hungary, as you have said, has set 2010 as the target date. the only country that has not set itself any goals - as i said before - is poland. that is a necessary condition, but it is not a sufficient condition. the sufficient condition is that, in the assessment of the fulfilment of the criteria laid down in the treaty by both the commission and the european central bank, member states wishing to join the euro area fulfil those criteria. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively and that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. that's the situation. in the case of poland, which is the only new member state that has not set a target date for joining the euro area - sweden is also in that situation, following the negative referendum in 2003 - the commission recalls that it is the member states themselves' obligation - except for those with a derogation clause, which are only the united kingdom and denmark - to consider joining the euro area and it is our obligation and responsibility to assess whether or not they meet the requirements. i cannot answer mr paleckis in advance about the content of the report which the commission is going to adopt on 16 may, and i cannot even anticipate what the content of the report of the european central bank may be, for obvious reasons. what i do say to the honourable member - and i have said this on many occasions - is that the commission will assess whether or not the criteria as defined in the treaty are being met. it is not a whim of the commission to set such criteria. it is a requirement of the treaty and it is our duty to enforce the treaty, and i reiterate to you that we will make that assessment on an equal footing with everyone, not applying different scales to one member state and different scales to another. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i shall be able to give you and all the honourable members an advance report on the conclusion of this analysis exercise on 16 may.
member of the commission. mr president, in general, for all member states with a derogation, not yet members of the euro area but obliged to be in the future, we made that assessment in october 2004 and we will repeat it in october 2006. for the two member states that have made an individual request to receive such an assessment they are entitled to receive it under the treaty, i.e. for slovenia and lithuania, our individual assessment for each of them will be carried out on 16 may. i cannot tell you in advance the outcome of a report which will be adopted by the college of commissioners on 16 may. on the afternoon of 16 may, if you wish, i will be in parliament explaining the content of the report, but i cannot tell you in advance today.
member of the commission. i agree with the honourable member that we are faced with a problem, because there is a member state which called a referendum, the result of the referendum was negative and, based on that negative result, it cannot or does not want to or does not intend to fulfil an obligation which, as a member state, it has. we have to face how to solve that issue. the commission has been careful not to do so in the immediate aftermath of a referendum. the commission's obligation to respect the treaty must be combined with taking account of the opinion expressed by the citizens of that member state, but i do not forget that the commission has to enter into discussions with sweden to see how that country will in future comply with its obligations as a member of the european union. the same is happening with poland, which, in its day, had advanced a target to enter the euro, a given year. the new polish authorities announce that they are not taking over the objective of their predecessors and that, for the time being, they are not defining a future objective. and i have already had occasion to remind the new polish government that it will have to do so. we do not want to put pressure on the member states, but we must not forget that this is an obligation of the member states. we must combine - as i have said before - the exercise of our responsibilities with political prudence, and what i do say, of course, and have said on other occasions in public, is that compliance with an obligation which the 25 countries of the european union as a member state have cannot be subject to a referendum. in this case there are two countries which have an exception, the united kingdom and denmark, but in general the obligations of the states cannot be put to a referendum, nor should the 23 states which do not have an opt-out clause, because a vote on whether or not a treaty is being respected cannot be held.
commissioner, i wanted to ask you about inflation. as we know, inflation in the first eleven countries to join the economic and monetary union and to adopt the euro has been above the benchmark for a long time. only two countries failed to meet the benchmark. others exceeded it from the end of 1998 to the end of 2005 from 10 months to almost six years. my question is whether we are applying double standards to the new states and whether economic and monetary union is a technical union or whether it is only a political union.
i welcome and support the new initiative of the european commission, 'a europe for active citizens'. i also congratulate the rapporteur on a well-prepared report. the successful functioning of the enlarged european union requires the development of european citizenship. the european union needs an agenda that focuses on citizens, especially after the enlargement of 2004. the deficit of active democracy is one of the most pressing problems facing the european union today and therefore calls for efforts to develop a european identity, to foster citizenship and to promote active participation in european integration. public opinion polls in lithuania show a high level of public distrust of the main state institutions, with a decreasing voter turnout. these figures are similar in the european union. the average european also has little trust in political parties, their national government or parliament. the implementation of the active citizens' initiative will ensure that european values are integrated into individual national societies and that the european identity that is being actively shaped has a positive impact on the overall decisions of the european union. the institutions of the european union must become accountable not only to the governments of the member states or their delegations, but also to european citizens. the implementation of the measures will create a greater degree of transparency, accountability and accountability in the european union's policy process. european culture and its diversity will be fostered, and cooperation between citizens and organisations from different countries will be encouraged. a uniform assessment of the past, of the stalinist gulag and of the holocaust of fascism would strengthen european citizenship. it is important that this programme is made available to all stakeholders, i.e. non-governmental organisations, scientific institutions. this initiative is the key to citizens' conscious action on their and their children's future in europe.
mr president, as election means the presentation of alternatives, acknowledgement of them and afterwards a deliberate choice – the candidate who appears better is elected – it is not something for dictatorships. the procedure of voting in circumstances eliminating de facto any free choice should not be called an election. what happened recently in belarus was only a vote, which, along with the counting of the votes, was in the hands of the government of the eternal incumbent. he was not given any democratic legitimacy. who is mr lukashenko today? he looks more and more like a governor appointed by the ruler of all russia to undergo once more the well-known dishonest procedure of a fraudulent vote and to continue his experiences on the spot. we have to state here that the new post-soviet tri-electoral military union of consolidated dictatorships in moscow, minsk and tashkent is not the way to a better future for the three states and nations. we have seen the birth of a new democracy in belarus as a european-linked, not eurasian, country. therefore, as russia itself now prefers post-soviet authoritarian nationalism to any ‘orange’ renovation there is a growing danger that belarus will be forcibly merged with putinist russia, the basis for which was laid down in advance. all the world is to be warned about it. if we do not want mr milinkevich to disappear forever, as happened to leaders of the opposition in belarus several years ago and as is going on in chechnya every day, the resolution on belarus sets out the right step, which is first to call on the un to set up an international commission to investigate previous crimes of the terrorist regime in belarus, so as to prevent new ones today. vincuk viacorka is here today, temporarily released from jail. but nobody knows what might happen there any day.
i support mr winkler and mrs wallner's position and i would like to make four points for my own part. first, since the elections in belarus were unfair, lukashenko is not legally the president and cannot be referred to as such in any european parliament documents. and in this palace, you shouldn't call lukashenko the president. secondly, in order to combat the indoctrination of the belarusian people by the lukashenka-controlled media, it is necessary that television programmes from lithuania, poland and even ukraine are broadcast continuously and not episodically to the whole territory of belarus, and not just to a part of it. television, not radio, is the most powerful influence on people's minds. third, to strengthen the united belarusian opposition in every possible way. and fourth, to constantly remind russian president putin that the belarusian regime has not yet collapsed because it is backed by russia, which is responsible for it.
for the alde group as a witness of the last presidential elections and this election, i see a welcome change in the process of democratization in ukraine. the publicity of the election campaign, the transparent organisation of the electoral process itself, the activism and goodwill of the voters - these are the common conclusions of all international observers and ukrainians themselves. it is very important that the democratic process does not stop now. there are things that worry: speculation on national feelings, high levels of corruption, barriers to foreign investment, the abundance of oligarchs on electoral lists, not electoral programs, but the dominance of personnel - all these are remnants of sovietism. it is important that they do not obstruct the progressive process. it requires our moral support first. we need to share as much of our positive experiences as possible. this is particularly true of countries like lithuania and others that have emerged from the same soviet camp. europe must increase opportunities for cultural, scientific and, more generally, citizen-to-citizen interaction. we must help ukraine return to the european family. the european association agreement would be a real show of force for ukraine.
i am pleased and congratulate ukraine on the democratic, free and fair elections held on 26 march, which met international democratic standards. this is already a great victory for the people of ukraine who are building civil society, especially in the light of the rather disturbing events of december 2004 that ended in democratic presidential elections and the fact that ukraine has made good progress in democratic reforms over the past two years. it is now hoped that the coalition that has won the most votes will be able to reach an agreement and form a coalition government that will continue the democratic, market reforms it has started and consolidate democracy. javier solana said immediately after the elections that the eu was going to step up cooperation with ukraine, to support political and economic reforms that would ensure the rule of law, to consolidate the principles of the market economy in the country, and i would add, to support a more effective fight against corruption and the shadow economy. the eu, like the us, supports and will support ukraine's bid for wto membership and is working to accelerate its accession to the organisation. ukraine must also carry out its mission in the region. i am talking about moldova, the solution to the transnistrian problem, and ukraine deserves the support of the european union in this effort. according to a poll conducted in ukraine last month, 42.9 percent of ukrainians support the country's membership in the eu, and according to us president bush, i quote, "the us is ready to support ukraine in its integration into the eu and nato". what is the european union's own response to this? how will we respond to the expectations of the ukrainian people and their elected representatives? are we, the european parliament, prepared to talk constructively about ukraine's european integration or only about the european perspective? i think that the future will depend once again on the political will and determination of the ukrainian people, on their efforts, because ukraine is in europe in any case. article 49 of the treaty of europe says that european countries have the right to join the eu.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, i believe in the rule of law. there are clear rules. there are national and european bodies which monitor compliance with these rules. of course, none of us are immune to the violation of laws. but the important thing is that the competent european bodies act accordingly in the event of a breach of community law. the council has no jurisdiction here. if the commission considers that the rules are not sufficient, it has the right, and it alone has the right, to propose the addition of these rules. that is how the european union works, and we are well advised to keep it that way in the procedures laid down in the treaties.
i'd like to ask a more philosophical question. if the law were extended to allow for the hearing of ministers and presidents, as was the case in lithuania, and this would somehow ensure a greater fight against corruption, crime and abuse of power, do you still think that such a path would be risky and that more should be thought about citizens' rights?
in the last year and a half, 15 electronics and related companies have stopped production in europe. in october last year, the czech company 'tesla ecimex' and the lithuanian company 'ekranas' submitted a request to the european commission to initiate anti-dumping measures against china, malaysia, south korea and thailand. on 11 january this year, the initiation of an anti-dumping investigation was announced in the official journal of the eu. but tesla ecimex has already shut down. it stopped in april, screen. companies are unable to compete with producers in south-east asia and latin america, which are supported by the state through pro-business policies. in lithuania, together with subsidiaries, 5000 employees lose their jobs. at the same time, the forecasts for the electronics market and the sales of 'ekrano' are positive. i call on the commission to apply anti-dumping measures more expeditiously and to take proper care of european producers and fair competition.
vice-president of the european commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, today we are looking at a glass that is only half full, but that is gradually being filled. in addition to the positive endorsement given to the accounts of the european union budget, revenue, appropriations, administrative expenditure and the european development fund, the court is quite satisfied with the way agricultural expenditure and aid to the candidate countries are controlled. the expenditure with which the house was satisfied represents about one third of the eu budget. i am pleased that these progresses have been reflected in parliament's reports and that a proposal has been made to parliament to give the commission discharge. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jan mulder, mrs rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulo, the rapporteur on the european development fund, and mr szabolcs fazakas, the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, who have conducted the whole procedure with great skill. parliament has drawn up a comprehensive list of recommendations for improvement, most of which the commission intends to follow and report on. we all know that the glass is not yet full, but parliament supports the plan for a single internal control framework approved by the commission in june 2005 and the action plan adopted in january 2006. now that we know what's missing, let me focus on that missing piece. first of all, i would like to thank parliament for the text of the interinstitutional agreement, which was the result of negotiations with the council and which for the first time deals with budgetary control and discharge. we know that further work is needed to implement this political agreement and the commission is certainly going to do its best to do so. we also aim to improve the way we report to the european parliament and to the european taxpayer. we're going to focus on three things. first, we will improve the procedure for drawing up the annual activity report and improve its consistency at dg level. we will also make corrections to the consolidated report, although not in the detail that the european parliament has recommended. secondly, we will increase the transparency of the use of eu funds. next week, the commission will adopt a green paper on the european opening-up initiative. the commission proposes to make it compulsory for member states to publish a list of beneficiaries of eu funds administered jointly. the commission shall also increase the transparency of the use of funds directly under its administration. a centralised web portal is planned to be set up for this purpose. thirdly, we want to continue to increase the involvement of national audit authorities. last week the commission sent each member state's audit authority a detailed list of payments made to the country in 2005. the audit authorities were also encouraged to communicate the results of their audits to the commission and the court of auditors. this is the initial stage of the implementation of our action plan and i have information that the audit authorities of several member states are ready to check the proper use of european union funds in their country. so the first steps have already been taken in this direction and i intend to raise this issue at the meeting of the coordination committee of the community and the member states' audit authorities in poland at the end of the year. ladies and gentlemen, when i spoke to you last year, i said that involving and motivating member states is not easy and that the commission will continue to need your support. i have felt that support over the past year and i can assure you that we are doing everything we can for our part. as a first step, we intend to follow the recommendations you're adopting today. thank you for your attention!
the rapporteur for the opinion of the development committee. in assessing the implementation of the general budget for the financial year 2004, the committee on development considers that, despite the efforts of the european commission, there are still areas for improvement in the implementation of the budget. the committee on development agrees with the court that objective, useful and clear indicators are needed to assess the results of the support and expects such indicators to be developed and implemented over the 2007-2013 period. the committee on development welcomes the fact that a more effective alternative to general budget financing has been found for budget support to sectors. however, the committee on development, drawing on the experience of recent enlargement, calls on the commission to ensure that the administrative management capacity of development policy is strengthened in bulgaria and romania before their accession to the eu. the evaluation of the implementation of the sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth european development funds in 2004 shows that there is still room for improvement. as in the past, the lack of coordination of donor support has led to the development of a methodology for assessing the results of cooperation between community members, without which it is impossible to move towards the 'results-based approach' to achieving the millennium development goals. another point is the need for the commission to have clearer evidence of the eligibility of states for support, to strengthen cooperation between local representatives and to use incentive indicators of the efficiency of the use of public funds. as regards development aid, there is a risk that up to eur 700 million will not be used by the end of 2007. at the same time as the 10th european development fund is being increased, member states are committing to increasing development assistance. as in previous years, the commission must therefore make greater efforts in managing development policy funds.
for the alde group perhaps i will try to answer a. stubb and d. jørgensen today, why we are so late in discussing this issue and what we want to hide from, either from society or from ourselves. i would like to remind you that last april we voted on the 2003 budget for the european parliament, where i was the main rapporteur. and i suggested that the european parliament should not work in strasbourg. i am the shadow rapporteur today and i would like to remind you that last year members of parliament decided to keep three posts and continue to meet in strasbourg. every year, our work or its organisation costs the citizens of the community eur 200 million. mr president, do we have the right to be surprised today that the strasbourg city council is trying to charge an unreasonably high price for the buildings? i don't think so, because we're the ones who pushed her into it. the maintenance of the european parliament's seat in strasbourg is doomed to be a waste of money unless we give it up. it is not uncommon for businesses or individuals to cheat or even become corrupt. but they are often motivated by monopoly power, illogical laws, or political decisions. we ourselves, honourable members, have decided to use the buildings in strasbourg, knowing that they would cost an unreasonably large sum of money and would be a loss to the city and its people, because we only use them for a few days a month. this is basic economic logic. it has been calculated and justified on several occasions that the economic and financial benefits to the city would be much greater if another institution were to be located in the european parliament buildings and operate throughout the year. so we have to admit that we all know this, but for some reason we don't want to change the situation. i think that the people of strasbourg, like all other citizens of the community, have become hostages to the wrong decisions we have made. i support the proposal to postpone the adoption of the european parliament's budget until it has been established how much more the european people have lost. it is very important to find out whether there has been fraud, whether there has been a breach of law or of contract, but much more important, honourable members, is to finally decide and stop this unjustified, shameful waste of money on the european people. we can work efficiently in one place and we have to put money where it's needed most.
i would like to talk about the report on the implementation of the agencies' budgets. it should be noted that the presentation of the endorsement of their financial statements reflects only the financial situation of the agencies, but in order to fully assess the use of the agencies' financial resources, an audit of the activities of these agencies should also be carried out. agencies have to spend money properly. now, when you read the audit reports, it is not at all clear why one agency was able to carry out a few on-the-spot checks and another only a few. why is there one relationship between administrative and operational staff in one agency and another in another? all this, and in particular the auditors' report that part of the budget is carried over to the next year, shows that the agencies are not managing the funds efficiently. i would therefore like to propose that the court considers the possibility of extending its special annual reports on agencies to include a cost-benefit analysis of the agencies' activities. i would venture to doubt that the institutions of the eu, which are the guardians of democratic values, are characterised by the fact that they operate as agencies, i.e. they are not accountable to anyone. the president of the european central bank, mr j.c. trichet, is a frequent visitor to the committee on economic and monetary affairs to answer questions from members of parliament. it is accountable to the citizens of the european union through its members. however, the heads of agencies are not accountable to anyone and the commission's replies to the court's observations on the irregularities found state that the commission can only help the agencies to address these problems, but it is up to the agencies themselves to decide whether or not to implement the auditors' proposals. i would suggest that they should be accountable to the relevant committees of the european parliament.
for the alde group i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and i am delighted to have a member of the competition committee with us today. because, as a representative of the liberal group, competition policy is very important to me, and i also want to discuss issues which are very important from a competitive point of view, namely the management of financial assets. first of all, i would say that financial asset companies are expanding into new countries and we are faced with the fact that they are selling very similar products. it is not clear why certain products are sold. there is a presumption that certain arrangements exist between the managers of financial assets and the distributors of those assets. however, it would be better to solve this in a transparent way and to disclose the relationship if money is paid for these services, so that the consumer at least knows that he is being offered these products, because he is paying a percentage for it. the second problem concerns the assessment of the costs of market analysis. now financial asset managers sell their services with a financial analysis and it is not clear to the consumer whether that analysis was actually carried out, what the scope was and what the real cost was. the pension funds or the ordinary retail client can assess the costs and choose a better asset manager when those costs are fully disclosed. i would also point out that financial asset companies should not be subject to unnecessary constraints. financial intermediaries operating in small countries often find it difficult to avoid conflicts of interest. and requiring only that disclosure of that conflict of interest is not really helping either the consumer or the financial company, because the consumer doesn't understand what's being disclosed, and the company has to fill out additional paperwork to explain. it is indeed better to have a conflict of interest properly managed and it is important to have legal safeguards. another problem faced, as the commissioner mentioned, is that different retail savings products are sold by different companies. let's say that insurance companies and financial asset management companies now sell very similar products. however, financial asset management companies are required to disclose a very high level of information, whereas insurance companies disclose much less. sometimes the consumer gets the wrong impression that the insurance company's products are cheaper or better. i think that aspect should also be considered.
mr president, with countries that have energy sources – such as russia, bolivia, etc. – aiming to get consumer societies to agree to their requests or obey their dictates, we are facing a new stage in present-day tensions. if europe wants to preserve energy and political independence from russia, and not fall for deceptive words such as interdependence, the eu must plan the diversification of alternative sources rapidly and defend its various alternatives. europe to be transferred into a department of an energy heartland – that is the kremlin’s dream. do we agree with that? an even sweeter dream would be a new union replacing the old european one. the gas union of russia and europe is to be built around the moscow-berlin core axis. such a vision was presented only slightly covertly in the russian president’s recent state-of-the-nation address. do we agree with this?
i am glad that the european union is taking the right steps in fighting the lukashenka dictatorship, because we europeans cannot support this dictatorship in the middle of the continent. but here i have a list of european union cities from different countries and regions that have a cooperation, a fraternal relationship with different cities and regions of belarus. and we know that in the cities of belarus there are loyal servants of the lukashenka regime and they are the people who support the dictatorship. we, the european parliamentarians, must therefore call on the heads of cities in the european union to end their official relations with the servants of the lukashenka regime. there is no doubt that our european cities must maintain cultural, sporting and educational links with belarusian cities. but our city leaders, the city leaders of the european union countries, cannot be the ones who legalize, who recognize the lukashenka dictatorship by maintaining relations with the official servants of the regime. i think we have to take a position on this issue.
we will receive the european commission's report on lithuania's convergence tomorrow. i hope that it will recognise that lithuania has made significant economic progress and meets many of the criteria set out in the maastricht treaty. the slight discrepancy in the inflation rate should not delay lithuania's accession to the euro area, as the scope for interpreting the inflation criterion is quite wide under the treaty establishing the european communities. lithuania did not use artificial measures to reduce inflation, and the slightly higher inflation rate was caused by the increase in world energy prices. i would think that on economic grounds, given the rapid growth of the economy, lithuania could be accepted into the euro area. i would venture to say that this issue is of political importance because of the ambiguity of the application of the maastricht criteria and should be included in the agenda of the eu leaders' summit in june.
member of the commission. i would like to thank honourable members for their help in this matter. it is indeed a very important matter, not only for our citizens who want to take advantage of mobility, but also for workers. i am thinking most of all of the small- and medium-sized businesses that send their workers on trans-border activities. this is very heavy on those businesses, so we should try to bring the roaming prices down to the real costs. that is why we will now have to analyse what we have received as input with these 150 contributions. i announced in march that my intention is to switch to the home price tariff. under which conditions this will happen is something i am considering at the moment on the basis of the inputs to the consultation. i can assure parliament that the intention is to put a regulation before the commission in july and then it will be in the hands of parliament and the council to see whether they can use the fast-track procedure to get this regulation accepted. once this regulation is accepted it will go directly into implementation and that means, i believe, that before summer or in summer 2007 consumers and workers could profit from much lower roaming tariffs.
member of the commission. the dg competition makes ex post regulations on the basis of a complaint that has been introduced, whereas the internal market and services dg can work on the markets in ex ante regulations. here we are talking about article 95. i have consulted with the legal services to find out if article 95 is the right basis. i will certainly continue to do so throughout the process. i am convinced and satisfied by the answers from the legal services that article 95 provides an appropriate basis for our proposal.
member of the commission. the internal market works to the advantage of businesses, big and small, and consumers. the fact is that the internal market has worked to the advantage of developing the gsm system, which has become a world standard. we are very proud of that. but the anomaly is that although our citizens have one of the best – if not the best – telephone systems in the world, both fixed and mobile, nevertheless when they cross a border they are somehow punished for doing so and cannot take advantage of the common market. that is exactly why i thought it was indispensable for the commission to step in. i am not the regulating kind of commissioner; i always prefer the market to solve the problem by itself. that is why the market had been warned a long time in advance. it had been warned by parliament; it had been warned by the national regulators; it had been warned several times by the commission, and it did not move. the commission had to resolve to put a regulation on the table before the first market forces began to move a little in the right direction. i believe that it is time the commission gave back the advantages of the internal market to the small and medium-sized businesses and to our consumers.
member of the commission. i have the impression that at the moment the low-income consumers are subsidising the consumers in large industries which are able to negotiate special prices with the mobile operators. we would like to reverse that position and see fair prices based on markets and cost for the consumer, not the unfair prices we have now. most of all, we would like to give back to the consumers the advantages of the common market and promote mobility rather than being a barrier to it. i have read the advice of the european regulators’ group with great interest and i am working very closely with that group. it shares my objective, which is to bring about substantial reductions in international roaming charges. our services are meeting members of the group today to discuss with them the details of how this should be done. that is why i am unable to give details of our regulation at the moment, because i have to see everything that is on the table – 150 contributions – and to listen to the national regulators. having done that, i will draw up a paper on a draft regulation for the commission and i am sure that parliament will discuss this paper thoroughly later on this summer.
member of the commission. the commission is pursuing several initiatives to promote the safest possible use of the internet in europe. since 1996 the commission has been active in the fight against illegal content such as child pornography, or racist content, as also in the protection of children from accessing legal but harmful content such as adult pornography, violent content and gambling. parliament is examining the commission’s proposal to update the television without frontiers directive in order to cover all audiovisual media services. a basic canon of rules will then apply to all audiovisual content, whatever the means by which it is distributed, including television and the internet. these will relate to safety, protection of minors, prohibition of incitement to hatred, and include some qualitative restrictions on advertising targeted at minors. we also have a recommendation on protection of minors and human dignity in audiovisual and information services, which provides guidelines for national legislation about electronic media. on the basis of this recommendation, in 2005 we launched the safer internet plus programme. that programme has established a network of 21 hotlines throughout europe, which enable the general public to complain about illegal content found on the internet. these hotlines investigate and refer complaints to the appropriate organisations, police, internet service providers or hotlines in other countries. we also have a network of 23 awareness-raising projects, which provide advice to children, teenagers, parents and educators about the risks of the internet and the way to deal with them. this is done either directly with the help of brochures, websites and tv spots or through the intermediary of multiplier organisations like schools. then there is the filtering and parenting software, which is a key means to protect children from accessing harmful content. the commission will provide guidance to parents on the effectiveness of filtering software and services. a study is under way and due to be completed by december this year. the commission is also actively involved with the internet and the mobile phone industry with a view to promoting self-regulation as a means of limiting the flow of harmful and illegal content. the commission has taken legislative measures against spam, spyware and moleware, which are also viruses. a full list of these will be communicated to the honourable members. i would also like to say that at international level the follow-up conference to the world summit on the information society will tackle all these negative aspects of the new technologies. let me say today that i am sure that with the help of parliament the safer internet day in spring 2007 will become a real important awareness-raising day in all our member states.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, mrs schierhuber is right: there is this bad stuff on the internet, and it will continue to be there. we fight as hard as we can to get it off the internet, but it's the world wide web and we don't have access to all of this content. the most important thing is to provide both parents and schools with the information necessary to prepare children for what they will find on the net. with this in mind, all our information and awareness campaigns will culminate in a very successful safer internet day in the spring of 2007. i would also like the european parliament to support us by taking initiatives in this respect from the members of parliament in their constituencies. a coordinated action across europe would certainly be in the interests of our children.
member of the commission. as i have already said, it is a worldwide web and everybody can submit content to it. that is why we need not only to raise the awareness of educators and parents but also to lobby internet providers, as i do regularly, to take responsibility and to establish self-regulatory measures. i really believe in self-regulation in that field. if many stakeholders self-regulate, there will be a result. in the revised television without frontiers directive, the basic values of our societies will also apply to the internet. this will be of the utmost importance, and responsibility will lie with those working in online services.
member of the commission. we have a real problem with the new technologies, which is that for the first time in human history maybe children know more than parents and educators. that is why we have to provide parents with very simple software, simple filters and parenting devices so that they can take their responsibility. that is why we have launched a study to find out what filters and services exist for parents. at the end of the year, when we present this study, it will be most beneficial to organise an awareness-raising campaign on those filters in order to inform parents what they can do to help their children. very often parents are lost in such cases because they are not very familiar with technology – at least not as familiar as the new generation is.
member of the commission. let me assure you that the commission is well aware of the significant economic potential of commercial services, including financial services. this is an important part of the wto negotiations and it has not been ignored, even if it has received less publicity than other parts. the commission has highlighted the importance of access to finance in developing countries on many occasions, for example in a communication that it co-sponsored last year in the wto. financial services are clearly one of the european commission’s priorities in the services negotiations and, therefore, figure prominently in the european commission’s bilateral services requests. furthermore, the european community was one of the co-sponsors of the recently tabled financial services plurilateral request and is particularly active in plurilateral and bilateral negotiations with our trading partners in geneva. unfortunately, the offers in financial services on the table so far are mostly disappointing. this applies particularly to many countries in asia. certain asean members, with very low existing commitments, have not made any financial services offers and larger players, such as china and particularly india, also have room to improve their offers. in short, most of our main requests in financial services have not been addressed by our trading partners. that is why the commission will continue to press very hard and at all levels to convince our trading partners of the need to correct the situation by submitting substantially revised offers in july this year.
i am very sorry that commissioner mandelson was unable to be present and i do not wish to ask a question which may not be well known in your field. i think that in your work you can tell whether the commission is considering the possibility of extending the financial services dialogue. because now it seems that everything is focused on agricultural products, on textiles, and in fact, if you change the structure of trade, the financial services sector can really help change the structure of trade. does the commission devote much time to considering the expansion and development of financial services?
member of the commission. of course i did! that's a focus. i probably didn't say that much in my answer. we must make the best use of our own resources. of course, the available biomass and wind and hydro power will not be enough, but energy relations with russia and the opec countries must also be maintained. but my answer today is that we must do all our homework at home, because that is the only way to achieve our goal.
mr commissioner, thank you for your extensive reply and i agree that russia is an important energy supplier and that dialogue with russia is really needed in the energy field. but there is a good russian saying that god protects those who protect themselves. and the european union should probably keep in mind some of the official statements from moscow. i would like to ask you, commissioner, to comment on the statement by officials that russia will divert its energy sources to asia if the member states of the european union do not meet certain conditions.
member of the commission. i followed president putin's last address to the nation. he emphasised two issues that concern energy: first, he said that gazprom has shown remarkable progress since he addressed the issue of energy efficiency. it is very important that russia recognised that. he also said that russia could play an important role in the creation of a common european energy policy. as regards the gazprom announcement, i consider it one of the companies that have a monopoly. none of them would ever be willing to give their monopoly up. as regards diversification, we should accept that russia will look for the most lucrative market. if the price is better in china, i am afraid it will try to sell the gas to china. the united states has higher prices and, with the development of lng, competition between big consumers will grow. but, at the same time, i believe that the existing infrastructure that brings russian gas to the european union and highly diversified gas use in the european union will make the european market very attractive to gazprom and russia in general. we are anticipating, as a result of dialogue, that russia will follow in the gas sector the path currently being followed in the oil sector. that brings benefits to russia and at the same time supplies the market well. i hope our dialogue will be able to bring about such a result. i know it is not easy but that is our goal. geographically we are the best market and historically our companies have had very good relations. at the same time, i take very seriously the announcement by gazprom that they would like to build a pipeline to china. that is no big surprise.
on the question of reducing the european union’s dependence on gas and oil imports from russia, i would ask you, commissioner, to elaborate on two issues. firstly, is the eu in a position to counter the russian pipeline monopoly in the transportation of oil and gas from central asia to europe? secondly, is the european union able to secure reciprocity and greater transparency on the part of russia’s energy sector?
for the alde group thank you, mr commissioner, for the good news about the improving economic situation in the european union this is one of the few good news for lithuania today. however, i would like to speak about public finance policy, which, according to the treaty, should be shaped at national level, but on whose successful implementation the stability of the single currency the euro and the growth of the competitiveness of the european union as a whole depend. it is therefore necessary to establish reference points in public finance policy which help to reconcile the interests of the member states with the objectives of the community. it should be noted that the report by mr rosati reflects a certain attempt to balance both these approaches, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for this. the alde group believes that these measures could ensure a more effective coordination of the european union's public finance policy. firstly, measures of an organisational nature, i.e. forecasts of key economic indicators drawn up at community level, which would enhance the reliability of member states' public finance forecasts. second, the preparation of a harmonised calendar of budgetary procedures for the eu member states, preferably for at least two years. thirdly, we would strongly encourage public statements and transparent commitments by member state governments to demonstrate that they are pursuing fiscal sustainability, as this would ensure public oversight. the economic measures we would support are, first of all, the need to define an outward-looking, competitive european macroeconomic policy. in this case, more coordination could be provided by ecofin council meetings. appropriate tax initiatives, as well as those that promote the modernisation of economic structures and the activation of citizens, should also be a priority. the third priority should be to promote fiscal discipline on the basis of best practice examples generated by member states. we very rarely use this method, but in fact some countries have achieved good results in solving problems of fiscal management, and the commission could prepare a report or a document where the best examples are summarised, rather than all the time, let us say, being biased towards one country or the other. the fourth, and very important, measure is that we would think that the focus should be on encouraging savings, rather than private investment, because this is one of the key macroeconomic initiatives.
one of the options available to member state governments to encourage private initiative is to create an environment conducive to high-quality economic growth. we must ask ourselves whether the interinstitutional agreement reached will serve this purpose. we can hardly answer this question because initially the agreement was reached after the member countries at the lunch table had shared their views and decided which programmes to fund. the european parliament then joined the lunch table in a real way and tried to correct the agreement in terms of the priorities of the social programmes. can we assess the economic impact of the agreement thus concluded? i don't think he did. i therefore think that the procedure for such projects should be regulated more strictly and clearly. first, a clear responsibility for the general budget should be established for the member states, i.e. reform of the own resources system. the commission should make it clear that it supports this proposal, what it proposes and what it is doing, because there is uncertainty now. the second important thing is to provide for the criteria for allocating funds for each programme in a realistic way. now, these criteria are generic, sometimes overlapping, and it is not clear whether these seemingly huge sums of money will actually benefit european citizens. the third thing that must be foreseen, which must be in every programme, is responsibility, the responsibility of the member states for the budget of the european union, the responsibility of the citizens for the use of those funds and the responsibility of the commission for the effective, clear, transparent functioning of that system.
today we are discussing a very important report on the state of human rights in the world in 2005 and the european union's policy on the matter. i would like to thank the author of the report, mr howitt, for his cooperation. mr president, the european union remains a world leader in human rights and the european parliament is the strongest defender of human rights among the european union institutions. but it is not good that europe is better at making statements than at following them. the union can do a good job on human rights, but in many cases it strangely fails to integrate human rights solutions into its policies and programmes. if we are serious about our values, if we want to defend them, this situation must change. i think it is time to identify the countries of particular concern in the annual report each year and thus create an initiative to help identify priorities. the council already has monitoring lists which are reviewed every six months in order to provide concise and concise information on countries likely to be in crisis and to promote joint foreign policy action by the council of ministers and the member states. such information could be used to establish lists of countries of particular concern in order to give them special attention. it is also clear that the visibility of the report, its dissemination, especially among journalists and national parliaments, needs to be significantly improved. in conclusion, i would like to draw your attention, madam president, to a very important point in the report. i quote: the european parliament welcomes the fact that freedom of expression has been chosen as the focal point of the human rights debate during the uk presidency. concerned that so many journalists around the world are being jailed for allegedly defaming public officials or politicians. calls on the council to initiate a global moratorium on the imprisonment of journalists in this way; i am convinced that in this context we, the european parliament, must mention the countries in which the situation is particularly bad, namely cuba, belarus, north korea and the people's republic of china. and that needs to be in our resolution.
i am pleased with mr howitt's report, which i would consider to be unique in that it does not divide the states into large and small and does not apply double standards to them. but in the paragraph on china, i am missing the point of the tibetan problem. tibet, as you know, was occupied by china, but we somehow recognized it as an integral part of china. china is committing genocide against the tibetan people, and we don't even mention it anywhere. suffice it to say that every year about 3,000 children from tibet, i emphasize the children, flee across the himalayas and nepal to india just to learn their language. the tibetan people and their culture are disappearing before our eyes. even cultural autonomy for tibetans is an unattainable dream, and the negotiations between the representatives of the dalai lama and china are fictitious because they are only at the expert level and not at the principle level. i think we have to change our attitude towards tibet if we really don't want the tibetan people and their culture to be destroyed.
madam president, the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument is important to the new eu member states, including lithuania. our border with our neighbouring countries is almost 1 000 kilometres long. we are very keen that behind this border, in russia and belarus, democracy, human rights, economic prosperity and greater public welfare should take root. paraphrasing the former german foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher, we could say that european union citizens will never be safe and happy if, beyond the borders of the union, people live in economic deprivation and in the absence of rights and fundamental freedoms. i would like to stress that the document also offers the possibility of using financial resources for those countries that are inclined to freeze cooperation with the eu. we need to coordinate these possibilities with a project to create a european democratic fund in support of civil society, as suggested by the lithuanian president valdas adamkus, german social democrats and members of the european parliament.
the president of the council. the european union and the council are of course particularly concerned about the fate of individuals. it is particularly important in individual cases to act in a way which is efficient and does not have the opposite effect. it's difficult. i have worked in this field for a long time and i know that it is often very difficult to find the right way and not to give the impression that you are not dealing with these cases, but also not to run the risk of doing the opposite of what you want by going too public. the european union and the council are making every effort to find the right way in each individual case. of course, we are particularly concerned about the fate of individual people. however, i must say frankly and honestly - and this is admittedly very frustrating at times - that the possibilities of the european union are sometimes very limited and that we do not always achieve the success we want. but we will not be deterred by this and we will continue along this path.
president-in-office of the council. indeed that question has been brought to the attention of the council, which is still considering it. i hope that i will soon be able to give you a concrete answer, but i cannot do that today. i beg your indulgence and a little more patience.
the president of the council. i would like to start by saying, as i said before, that this is a matter of balance. there is a very concrete interest on the part of iran to resume this human rights dialogue. the council is naturally interested in having such a dialogue with iran, because it offers the opportunity to make a lot of points in this context, including individual cases. but it is obvious that we cannot, as the european union, engage in a dialogue which is being misused by the other side as an alibi or a means of whitewashing. the european union therefore has very specific ideas about the conditions under which such a dialogue should take place. one of the conditions for the european union to enter into such a dialogue is the need to make certain concrete advances. the european union's expectations and priorities include the release of political prisoners. but we are ready for dialogue, as i said. and if iran is seriously interested in such a dialogue, the european union will be happy to enter into it under the conditions i have mentioned.
the president of the council. i shall be glad to go into this matter in some detail, although i can give a further statement at 9 p.m. today, if i am properly informed - the council has agreed to be here at 9 p.m. and to take part in this debate - . the council attaches the utmost importance to the question of a coordinated and common energy policy for the european union raised by the honourable member. i would point out that the council drew attention to this problem in the conclusions of the informal meeting in march on 'a new energy policy for europe' and adopted decisions on this subject under the heading 'energy policy for europe'. it was noted that europe faces a number of challenges in the energy sector, namely increasing dependence on imports and limited diversification. in its conclusions, the council therefore calls very clearly for an energy policy for europe which is geared to efficient community policy, coherence between member states and coherence of action in the various policy areas, and which satisfies the objectives of security of supply, competitiveness and environmental sustainability in a sufficient and balanced way. i would like to mention in this context that, particularly in the energy field, we must examine very carefully what falls within the competence of the states and what can be done at european level. here we must achieve synergy. the european council also noted that security of supply should be enhanced, inter alia, by developing a common external approach, promoting energy dialogues between the european union and its main partners and diversifying in terms of external energy sources, suppliers and transport routes. the european union and the council will pay particular attention to this aspect of foreign policy in the coming weeks. the council will work with the european commission to make the dialogue between the european union and russia more effective, building on existing structures. the opportunity will soon be available to discuss this question at the summit, which will also be one of the main topics of this summit. the council also called for the conclusion of negotiations on the transit protocol with a view to ratifying the energy charter treaty. the legal framework provided by these instruments would increase the transparency and competition of energy markets, while contributing to the creation of favourable investment conditions in the countries of the parties. the common energy concept should also allow for a genuine energy partnership with russia and ensure security and predictability for all. it should be noted that this issue has not fallen from the sky, but that the council has long since developed an interest in an effective and coordinated energy policy. the question has only become particularly topical now, after eight hours of the austrian presidency, at 8 o'clock in the morning on 1 january this year, when the well-known developments of the interruption of energy supplies by russia took place. the gradual establishment of a legal framework in the energy sector, whether through the promotion of renewable energies or through the successive liberalisation packages which will ensure a full opening of the common energy market by the summer of next year, is already contributing to a coordinated and common energy policy, which the honourable member rightly calls for. as regards the question of diversification of energy sources and transport routes, the recent adoption of the decision on transeuropean energy networks is an important step in this direction. the conclusion of the energy community treaty with the countries of south-eastern europe, on which i shall be able to give my views in detail in the next debate at 9 p.m., also contributes to this objective by extending the internal concept of the energy market to the neighbouring countries. in this context, the council looks forward with interest to the evaluation of the energy strategy which the commission intends to submit to the council and parliament next year, and which will deal in particular with the objectives and measures required for an external energy policy in the medium and long term. finally, as regards the g8 summit, i would point out that the council is not, of course, a member of the g8 and therefore does not participate in the meetings as a council. however, it is prepared to address the issues of reciprocity and transparency in other relevant fora such as the energy dialogue between the european union and russia. these important questions were also raised recently in a letter from commissioner piebalgs responsible for energy and the president of the energy council, minister bartenstein, to russian minister for energy christenko.
madam president, i do not have a supplementary question. i just wanted to thank the president-in-office for his very detailed answer.
the president of the council. at present, there are no cost estimates. this study has yet to be completed and will take a long time. it is not possible to say when it will be completed.
the president of the council. the problem of unanimity is particularly acute in 25 member states, particularly in taxation matters. the problem of agreeing to a uniform tax base is faced by those countries which have only recently introduced a completely different tax system, for example a flat tax system, i.e. a uniform rate for corporation tax, income tax and the like. these countries are naturally resistant because there is currently a tax competition in their favour. there are four countries which are opposed to the introduction of the directive too quickly or to any change at all. i think that the only way to achieve this is to have a constitution, which europe needs - and the more countries that join, the more urgently we need it - and to have a remedy so that we can also reach majority decisions in this area. unanimity on such difficult issues as taxation - we have seen this also on the issue of reduced vat, which has been very difficult to resolve - leads to problems when it comes to decisions necessary for the economy and to get more growth and employment. this is also seen in the context of the lisbon process. we need flexible decisions and a council which can act.
the president of the council. we'll stick to the subject. the finding of a uniform tax base is a question of tax harmonization and it has also been asked what documents are available. unfortunately, there is no data yet on the amount of savings that could be made, i.e. the costs that would be relieved from the economy. however, the commission has recently published the eu tax survey, which finds that cross-border businesses, especially smes, face high costs due to the differences in tax systems in the eu and that this is certainly not conducive to competition. in this context, i would also like to draw your attention to the commission's communication entitled 'an internal market without tax barriers', which was addressed to the council, the european parliament and the european economic and social committee and whose main objective is to facilitate economic activity in the eu. at the informal council meeting in vienna on 7 and 8 april the president of the commission also asked the commission to submit detailed calculations of the business benefits of a consolidated basis of assessment. in general, however, i would point out that the transfer pricing problem for companies operating in the internal market is a huge administrative burden which would be virtually eliminated by the implementation of a common consolidated basis of assessment. the council has in the past adopted several measures to facilitate crossborder business activities in the community, including the directive on parent companies and subsidiaries, the merger directive and the directive on the taxation of interest and royalties. the commission also submitted to the council a proposal to amend the directive on the taxation of interest and royalties, which is still being discussed in the council.
the president of the council. the question is fair tax competition. the eu has a basic principle of fair tax competition in all matters. but it should be on the same footing. tax competition is to be based on different tax rates. this is the flat tax issue. some new member states have recently introduced new tax systems with corporate tax rates well below those of the old member states. this results in a relatively unfair form of tax competition, because all of these countries are net recipients, and it is questionable whether these countries can still meet their social transfer obligations, which every member state has, pension and health insurance systems, due to the sharp reduction in taxes.
i completely agree that there are differences in different countries, but you are talking mostly about new member states that have implemented new taxation systems, and about unfair competition. when the new member states entered the european union they did not know about the european union’s plans to harmonise taxes. i disagree, therefore, with the view that we are not competing fairly with all the european union member states.
last sunday, the presidential elections were held in colombia, and i had the opportunity to observe them as part of an ad hoc delegation from the european parliament. president álvaro uribe vélez was re-elected for a second four-year term for the first time in colombian history, following a constitutional change a few years ago. the elections were marked above all by the fact that only 45% of eligible colombian citizens took the opportunity to vote. however, as an election observer, i can assure the european parliament that, despite some errors and irregularities, no substantive irregularities were detected, and the elections were democratic, free and fair. mr president, i propose that the european parliament congratulate the newly elected president of colombia and also initiate greater support for colombia, in particular for the implementation of the justice and peace act, which would enable the security problems in that country to be resolved.
member of the commission. madam president, i welcome this opportunity to continue the dialogue on trade issues with the european parliament. mr markov’s contribution provides a wealth of information and policy prescriptions on how to tackle the crucial relationship between trade and poverty, both in our bilateral agreements and in multilateral negotiations. i share to a large extent the overall thrust of the report. as i have said on several occasions, i want to put trade at the service of development. trade is the driver of economic growth and, in the right circumstances, it spreads prosperity, but it is not a panacea and does not automatically lead to poverty reduction. trade liberalisation needs to be implemented gradually. it should take place within a stable and supportive domestic policy framework and, in some cases, will require flanking measures to help bring about the process of adjustment. we are already doing a lot of what the report recommends we should do. i shall give a number of concrete examples. firstly, in trade negotiations, including in the dda and epas, and as recommended by the report, the eu respects the right of developing countries to liberalise progressively and to maintain flexibilities for their sensitive sectors. within the dda, the eu is keen to see countries contributing according to their capacities and levels of development. this lies behind the idea of special and differentiated treatment. we are responding favourably to ldcs’ and developing countries’ interests in services, including as regards mode 4 and in the sectors they have requested. also, under gatt, we respect the freedom of countries to decide whether, and to what extent, they open up their service sector. we have not made any service requests to ldcs. we have set up a scheme to support acp sugar producers in adjusting to changes following our sugar reform, and we are conscious of the need to address preference erosion. we actively promote regional integration and south-south trade, which the report rightly recognises as key to development, especially for marginalised countries. beyond trade negotiations, in the area of building capacity, the eu – which is to say the commission and member states combined – provides more than 50% of the overall trade-related assistance funded worldwide. commission-managed, trade-related assistance was around eur 850 million a year in the period 2001-2004 and, on the basis of the pledge that president barroso made at the last g8 summit, this will rise to eur 1 billion in 2007. we are actively engaged in the aid-for-trade debate taking place in the wto. the commission is also a pioneer in carrying out trade sustainability impact assessments – sias – to assess the potential impact of trade liberalisation on all three pillars of sustainable development. since 1999, we have carried out these assessments on all the eu’s major trade negotiations, identifying areas where flanking measures may be needed. with respect to the recommendations of the report on labour standards and social rights, although labour is regrettably not part of the dda, all our recent trade, bilateral and regional agreements recognise and promote social rights, including gender equality, child labour, forced labour and freedom of association. moreover, through gsp+, we provide special incentives for developing countries that respect core labour rights. dg trade is also funding an ilo pilot project on decent work indicators to predict and monitor the impact of trade on decent work. i was also pleased to see in the report a number of recommendations addressed to other players. the report calls on other developed countries and advanced developing countries to implement duty-free, quota-free schemes for ldcs, matching our own ‘everything but arms’. after agreeing on 97% coverage in hong kong, i would suggest, nonetheless, that the united states needs to engage fully on the implementation of that commitment. the report also calls on other wto members to match the eu’s move in hong kong on export subsidies and to eliminate all forms of export support, including export credits and food aid. the report recommends substantial reductions of domestic subsidies by developed countries and a solution for cotton – again, key areas where we expect the united states to deliver. since this is an open dialogue between us, i should like to raise a couple of points where the commission’s views differ from the report. aid for trade is an essential complement, but in no way a substitute, for a development-friendly outcome in the main negotiating areas of the dda. the biggest gains for developing countries lie in the market access component of the round and, in particular, in the south-south dimension. with reference to the risk of fraudulent distortion of ‘everything but arms’, we should, of course, remain vigilant on triangular trade but, to our knowledge, only one case of abuse has been reported. as to the recommendation to exclude public services from negotiations, we do not consider it necessary to renegotiate the gatt to exclude public services. it is entirely up to wto members to decide which sectors they wish to open. we have, for instance, made it clear that we do not wish to take additional commitments on health, education and audiovisual services. let me once again thank all those who have contributed to this report for their political support and guidance, and for the constructive criticism and concrete suggestions for action contained in it and others like it. i remain committed to informing parliament regularly and to listening to your views on major trade and development matters, as i have done to date and will continue to do in the future.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the development committee. it is a well-known fact that fair trade can be an effective tool for reducing poverty. however, the share of the poorest countries in world trade has declined over the past 10 years, with trade mainly in low-value-added products - agricultural raw materials and natural minerals. eradicating poverty requires first and foremost a radical change in policies in both industrialised and developing countries to address the structural causes of poverty. this requires not only the application of fair trade rules, bilateral and multilateral trade relations, and the improvement of wto rules, but also the development of trade relations between developing countries, the south-south dimension. the key future drivers of poverty reduction will be economic development, in particular investment in small and medium-sized enterprises, which supply goods and services to the local market in developing countries and generate higher added value and opportunities for global trade.
for the alde group it is regrettable that very little attention has been paid to the problems of enlarging the euro area. now these problems have to be dealt with directly in the enlargement process, and the commission is not prepared to do so. but we should not feel that we should blame others. we know from experience of reforms that good results can be achieved and thus only if we react quickly to a changing situation. i would therefore like the european institutions to react quickly to the changing situation. the cost of preparing for the euro is obviously considerable, and the assessment of candidate countries should therefore be carried out not half a year before the euro is adopted, but well in advance, perhaps in several stages. i also agree with the view that the methodology for calculating the maastricht inflation criterion needs to be revised. we have reviewed the methodology of the stability and growth pact without any problems. i hope it's not because a great country asked for it. and the small countries must be heard. and the third point. all commission assessments must be submitted to parliament, because decisions cannot be taken in the european union without democratic control. the european union is founded on democratic principles.
mr president, in congratulating slovenia, i would like to remind you that lithuania has met all of the maastricht criteria for five consecutive years, except for a one-month period during which inflation exceeded the criteria by a small margin. however, it was exactly at that time that the commission rushed to make a negative recommendation. the day after the commission’s conclusion, it emerged from the latest data that lithuania did in fact meet the maastricht criteria. yesterday, the president of the ecofin group, mr juncker, said that lithuania was warned not to apply for the euro because of its probable rejection. unfortunately, this demonstrates the commission’s preconceptions based on suspicion and prognosis. it seems that vilnius was punished for not following brussels’ advice and, ironically, because it met the criteria for five exemplary years. of all the eurozone countries, only finland can be proud about meeting the same targets. the situation could be restored. i urge my colleagues to vote for the amendment in which the commission is ‘to review its evaluation of lithuania’. i also invite the initiation of a broader discussion on the legitimacy and application of the present convergence criteria in the enlarged eu.
the report on the enlargement of the euro area is unusually weak and meaningless. it lists known truths. point 1 erroneously includes in the maastricht criteria requirements such as the independence of the central bank and the conformity of the legal system with the maastricht treaty. the objective of euro area stability referred to in points 4 and 5 requires an explanation of what it is that none of the 12 euro area members met all the criteria at the time of accession and continue to do so, in particular the indicators of inflation and non-excessive budget deficits, and how this may undermine development. the double standard is a clear discrimination against the euro-candidate countries. the development imposes a previously unheard-of requirement for sustainability of indicators, without taking into account the different economic and political situation than it was when the euro area was created 15 years ago. i call on the commission and the council to take account of the economic and political realities of the eu, to improve the maastricht criteria and to implement them in all member states, and to continue the expansion of the euro area.
for the alde group the implementation of the european year of cultural dialogue will contribute to the achievement of the european union's core commitment to contribute to the flowering of the cultures of the member states and to highlight the common european cultural heritage. speaking of lithuanian culture, i could give many examples that would interest any non-european. i will mention only two - the unesco-listed handicraft and the long-standing tradition of song festivals in all the baltic countries. another evidence of the importance of this project relates to demographic changes in europe. because of emigration, we already have entire lithuanian communities in the united kingdom, ireland, spain. these communities are pretty closed off. the reason is the lack of information, the lack of opportunities to learn about the traditions and cultural differences of these countries. i believe that each country must make it possible for its citizens to learn about the rich cultural heritage of europe as a whole, the common european values. this experience is essential to foster an active and open european citizenship.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for his work. i can anticipate that the commission will generally support all initiatives aimed at strengthening the fight at european level against acts of paedophilia, which are horrible crimes that are unfortunately increasing in europe from week to week. the honourable members are probably aware that every week europol conducts important investigations to dismantle paedophile networks operating within the territory of the european union. we can say that the internet system makes an extraordinary contribution to the actions of those who commit these crimes against children. there are, as perhaps the honourable members are aware, about 200,000, i would say 200,000 paedophile sites available on the net. the scale of the phenomenon requires the circulation of information. as you know, the commission presented a general initiative last december to facilitate the circulation of information on criminal convictions. it is a general measure which does not specifically concern the prohibition measures concerning those who have been convicted of sexual offences against children, so the measure proposed by belgium, and on which the rapporteur has referred, is a complementary measure to the general one concerning information on criminal convictions, it is a shared measure, which concerns a very specific area. i believe that the strength of the european union's action to reduce and finally eliminate sexual crimes against children must be based on strong prevention and operational cooperation. the fact that the measures of prohibition of criminal convictions are known and applied in all the member states is a guarantee that cases like that of fourniret, for example, will not happen again, and it is a guarantee that not only those who still think that these crimes can be committed will be severely punished, but they will also be prevented from moving and from committing the crimes more easily in another country of the european union. the rapporteur deserves our congratulations and the commission's support for this initiative.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. first of all, i would like to thank mr boguslav sonik for a well-written report. the legal committee examined the legal aspects of the report and, after making a number of amendments, endorsed it. it was indeed abnormal for a national who had been convicted in one eu country of violence, including sexual violence against children, to be re-employed in childcare facilities in another eu country, despite having been banned from doing so by a court judgment. the notification provides for the mandatory transmission of information on such persons to all eu countries, which will include it in the relevant register. thus, a child molester will no longer be able to work in a child-care facility and harm children again. i would like to ask my colleagues to support the report and i hope that all eu countries will make sure that this innovation is rapidly implemented. after all, the children's health is the most important thing.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i will say two words in german and then i have the text in english, because i am speaking for my colleague mr špidla. but as a woman who has been in politics for a long time and has always worked, i have to say that i have always experienced this issue of equal opportunities firsthand and i have always worked for it to be a reality. so, mrs. niebler, i'm very pleased to be able to do this today. may i now proceed in english: mr president, the proposal for a revised directive indeed seeks to simplify, modernise and improve community legislation on equal treatment of men and women at work. it incorporates within one document the relevant passages of the directives on this subject, so that the provisions are clearer and more practical for european citizens. it thus forms part of our efforts to have better lawmaking. the proposal is not simply an exercise in codification; it combines simplification with something i would call prudent modernisation. in substance, the most important aspects of the improvements are: the standardisation of terminology and, in particular, of definitions in order to ensure that the legislation is really consistent; the explicit application of a number of horizontal provisions to occupational and social security schemes, and the incorporation of the established case law of the court of justice in order to enhance legal certainty and clarity. modernising the directive in this way will help to bring about a considerable improvement in the legal framework of equal opportunities. given the complexity of the current legal situation and the diffusion of legislation on equal treatment at work, the aim of this proposal namely to simplify community law in order to make it more accessible to european citizens is very important. the text proposed today is the result of interinstitutional negotiations, through which a reasonable and very satisfactory compromise which is acceptable to both co-legislators has been reached. the commission therefore approves this text. parliament has played a very active and ambitious role in handling this matter. it has done much to improve and clarify the text of the directive. for example, a reference has been added to the importance of comparative statistics broken down by sex. another provision requires organisations which promote equal treatment to exchange information with certain european bodies such as, for example as you mentioned madam rapporteur the proposed european institute for gender equality. the overall compromise also includes two statements by the commission and the council which underline the great importance of reconciling work and private life as well as the importance of parental leave. reconciling work and family life is a challenge for each and every woman in our society. in its statement, the commission said that it is committed to promoting parental leave as an instrument of paramount importance in order to achieve full equality between men and women in working life. we will make every effort to ensure that the conditions necessary to reconcile work and private life are improved by ensuring that this directive on parental leave is implemented appropriately, and in particular by monitoring its suitability and effectiveness. in conclusion, the commission therefore plans to make reconciliation of work and private life one of its priority objectives and part of the roadmap on gender equality which was adopted very recently on 1 march 2006. in this context, there are plans to examine all the factors involved in reconciling work and private life, including parental leave, flexible working arrangements and support and care facilities with a view to finding solutions which are needed. this, we know, will involve launching a dialogue with the social partners. i am very pleased that the institutions have worked together so well on this matter, producing an acceptable and modern text, which will hopefully look to a better future for gender equality.
for the alde group gender equality is seen in the european union as a democratic value, a freedom of expression and the basis for a healthy interpersonal relationship. by emphasising work-life balance as one of the priority aspects of the eu's gender equality policy, the european commission promotes equal treatment for men and women in all areas, including employment, pay, and adequate parental leave as an individual right for each parent in all member states of the european union. although there are different models of implementation of gender mainstreaming strategies in the european union (the dual breadwinner model, the breadwinner-wife model, the part-time worker-housekeeper model, the breadwinner-husband model and the housewife-wife model), the issue of gender equality in employment is almost universally relevant occupational and vertical gender segregation in the labour market, linked to the cultural attribution of the greatest responsibility for domestic work to women. i agree with the commission that member states should be more active in organising information campaigns for the public and employers on equal opportunities in employment and occupation. employers must provide appropriate information to employees or their representatives at regular intervals on the equal treatment of men and women in the company. in order to better understand the reasons for the different treatment of men and women in employment and occupation, it is necessary to collect and analyse comparative data and statistics on gender. in cooperation with the social partners, it is necessary to improve the situation of women at work and to address the persisting gender pay gap and the marked gender segregation in the labour market. it is necessary to review the provisions on flexible working hours, which allow men and women to better balance family and work commitments, and which ensure equal opportunities for employment and for vocational training that is decisive for employment.
mr president, i shall read the text of my amendment: ‘points out that the commission shall publish its findings on countries that are considered not to be ready yet to join the euro area each time an evaluation is carried out, and present this to the european parliament in order to ensure a high level of transparency and accountability in the decision-making process at eu level.’ (applause)
mr president, the commission’s decision to leave lithuania out of the eurozone and the related opportunities for rapid integration with those better advanced was based on a formal notification concerning a breach by lithuania’s economy of the inflation rate limit, indeed with a minimal and disputed drop margin. the government in vilnius fell yesterday, burdened as it was by greater mistakes and failures than a lack of special concern and cautiousness over keeping the inflation programme on a positive margin, avoiding the risk of getting negative zero-comma-commas. it should not just toe the line on the european stage, especially while being new and not big. here i have to state, unfortunately, that unequal treatment of member states is evident at high levels of eu management, including the commission. when two larger member states did not comply with the stability pact – and it was not a drop margin, as in lithuania’s case – those larger states were not blamed or punished, but on the contrary blessed. the financial misbehaviour was not changed – the law was changed so that it complied with misbehaviour. in our case, the commission did not punish our former government; rather, the entire nation was pushed aside. moreover, something bad happened with the eastern border of the eu after russia broke the obligatory signature of president putin under the 2003 summit commitment to the eu to finalise agreements with estonia and latvia very soon. russia even denounced a document already ratified by the estonian parliament. the position of the eu appeared rather shameful: instead of standing by its member state, the eu instead appeased russia, leaving estonia to cope alone with big brother again. i would like to see my country, lithuania, acceding not only to the eurozone, but also to the common european area of energy security. in the case of the eurozone, the european parliament adopted some positive opinions in amendments critical of the commission and therefore i changed my mind and voted in favour of mr langen’s report.
the president, ladies and gentlemen, we started discussing the eu's common energy policy at the beginning of this year, following the energy conflict between ukraine and russia. the three main pillars of future policy are the single energy market, the diversification of energy sources and climate change policy. the single energy market will ensure security of energy supply, competitive prices and affordability for consumers. what is the reality? in order to create a single market, the european commission's group of european electricity and gas regulators decided to develop four regional energy market projects: north east, north, south and south east. none of them has the four baltic countries lithuania, latvia, estonia and finland. will we, the four countries, be forced to create a separate natural gas market? what kind of europe, what kind of development, what kind of solidarity can we talk about? does such a europe have a secure future and the ability to compete in the global economy?
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. the committee on legal affairs discussed the ethical implications of the use of embryonic stem cells. embryonic stem cells differ from ordinary stem cells in that they are undifferentiated and can be used to grow any component of the human body. as rapporteur for the committee's opinion, i put forward two ethical positions: (1) the use of embryonic stem cells to treat incurable diseases such as diabetes, parkinson's disease, myocardial infarction, etc. this would save adults from premature death, but would kill the embryo itself, (2) save the embryo, but deprive terminally ill people of their last hope. the committee voted by majority to adopt the second position. i am personally pleased that the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) has found a compromise and tabled the amendments i would like to see adopted.
mr president, i would like to thank mr adamou for his substantial report. i very much support what he has said today. i would like to emphasise the importance of improved cooperation and information-sharing between the commission, european states and the european centre for disease prevention and control. each country has to take the measures best suited to fighting the influenza pandemic. however, no country can face the consequences of the pandemic alone. international cooperation is an absolute necessity if its impact is to be reduced. i therefore fully endorse the idea of creating a european taskforce which would be coordinated by the commission and in which parliament would be represented. this taskforce, which would bring together experts from the relevant fields, such as human and animal health, neurology and epidemiology, should work with representatives of the european vaccine and antiviral drugs industries.
mr president, the recent eu-russia summit has revealed some aspects of eu-russia relations that were obvious but not openly discussed before. and on thursday, the european parliament will vote on a resolution that, in its assessment of the outcome of the recent eu-russia summit, will note that (i quote): 'the current eu-russia partnership is more pragmatic than strategic, with common economic interests coming first and fundamental changes in human rights and the rule of law failing to be achieved.' i would point out that this is a qualitatively new assessment, since it has been argued that russia and the eu are strategic partners whose partnership is based on shared values, respect for human rights and freedoms, democratic principles, etc. until now, almost all the resolutions on which i have had to vote in this parliament have been based on this approach to 'strategic partnership'. on the other hand, it was clear that these statements remained declarations, eu expectations, because russia, after president yeltsin, cannot boast of its achievements in the field of human rights, freedom of the press, rather, the opposite. i believe that these aspects should be taken into account when the current eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement expires and when a new agreement is being drawn up. i think the eu's priorities should also be formulated differently. the second aspect i would like to mention is the dialogue with russia on energy. unfortunately, the sochi summit, which devoted considerable time to energy, failed to achieve a breakthrough, and russian representatives continue to insist that they are acting on the principles of a market economy. only russia, for some reason, applies these principles first and foremost as a punishment for the pro-western, pro-european orientation of some of its neighbouring states. the eu's proposals to russia to ratify the energy charter treaty, proposals on transparency, the participation of eu companies in the board of russian energy companies remain a problem that we have to find a solution to.
member of the commission. the commission certainly knows that it has traditionally taken a proactive approach and has adopted several decisions under article 81 prohibiting restrictive agreements between the pharmaceutical companies and the wholesalers aimed at impeding parallel exports. earlier commission prohibition decisions – for example johnson & johnson in 1980 and sandoz in 1987 – concerned agreed export bans. the sandoz prohibition decision was appealed against in the european court of justice, but the court upheld the decision. so we are aware of your point.
i'd like to ask the members of the committee. as in poland, the situation is similar in lithuania, where medicines are often more expensive than in the old eu countries. the paradox is that, say, across the baltic, in sweden, where the standard of living is much higher, the medicines are cheaper. i would therefore like to ask directly whether this situation is the fault of national governments, or whether it is influenced by the activities of the european union, including the activities of the european commission, and by the imperfections of the laws.
the communication calls for the european union to eliminate as soon as possible all discrimination on grounds of nationality or origin, restrictions on minorities or non-citizens, and inequalities in education, healthcare and living conditions. the commission would have to take action against states that fail to implement eu anti-discrimination legislation. europe's progress will be smoother if people who are not eu nationals are integrated into european society. they are very diverse - they are immigrants from islamic countries in france and other old eu countries, and they are a russian-speaking minority in latvia and estonia. lithuania does not have this problem, but we understand the situation of its neighbours more sensitively than others. the demographic situation in these two countries is unique, and has developed under special conditions, unlike those in either the old or the new eu member states. progress in the integration of non-citizens into the civil society must therefore go hand in hand with their determination to realise that they live in latvia or estonia, that they are becoming citizens of europe and not of some other union. in order to maintain the distinctiveness that enriches europe, they must respect their country, learn its language well, and know its history and traditions. political responsibility to create the right conditions. the increasing participation of non-citizens in elections is only logical if they are increasingly active in participating constructively in the social and political life of their countries. the report in question calls on the member states to set up an anti-discrimination authority. the statistics produced by the commission and national authorities to assess the harm of discrimination will tell a lot.
the president of the council. it will be a particular pleasure for me to be present at this meeting of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in vienna. unfortunately, my appearance is scheduled to coincide with other events, such as the visit of the american president to vienna, so it may be a little difficult to reach the venue at all. but i will do my best and i look forward to meeting with the members of the european parliament and the acp states. as regards the question of financial resources, i would first like to point out that the european development fund is not part of the budget of the european union, but is money paid by the member states from their national budgets. i would point out that, although there have now been negotiations and discussions again in port moresby on the amount, this is an increase of more than 35% in the 10th edf compared to the 9th edf. this is a very considerable increase: we are talking, after all, and this must be said very clearly in public, of 22.6 billion euros for six years. i do believe that the european union is fully up to its obligations, including its moral obligations. as for the commitment to increase aid to africa by eur 10 billion, this is to be achieved from 2006 to 2010. it is probably too early at the moment to make a comprehensive judgment on the european union's compliance with this commitment. i believe that the 10th edf is a good package and that it contains sufficient funds to meet the needs of the developing countries in africa, the caribbean and the pacific. it is also very important - and this too must be emphasised - how these resources are used: these resources must be used efficiently. we have seen time and again that at the end of a period there is still a very substantial amount of funds left. this means that we must also improve the capacity of the use of these funds. it is not just the amount, it is also the way in which these funds are used. we are working on this, and the commission in particular is working on this.
president-in-office of the council. let me say to mr mitchell that, first of all, i do not feel qualified to make moral judgments here as to whether we are selfish or not, but, yes, it is very much in our interest to help those countries. it is not only a matter of trade, it is also a matter of global security and it is a matter of migration, which we have talked about today and during the last month and will talk about again in the future. there are many ways in which it is in our interests for those countries to develop. there is absolutely no doubt about that and we should not do it just because we are so generous, although we must be generous and i think that we are. as far as china is concerned, that is a very interesting point. just a week ago, i led a troika mission to china and we had a very interesting political dialogue with the chinese. one of the issues we talked about was exactly that: china’s activities, in africa in particular but also in other developing countries, especially in the fields of energy and trade. we said we are concerned that the values we share – and that we hope china also shares – as regards good governance and human rights are not respected. so this is an issue that we are very much aware of. we raise it in relation to our partners and we have raised it, and will raise it again, in relation to china.
the president of the council. i have to say, mr rack, i'm very sorry. the question of readmission, including of illegal immigrants, is a question that is on the table. i cannot say whether this will be linked to the economic partnership agreements or not. this is something the commission is negotiating. but there is no doubt that this is also what the council wants, what the member states want. the commission is of course also working in this direction.
the president of the council. the agreements on visa facilitation and readmission signed at the russia-sochi summit on 25 may - we also discussed this yesterday in the debate on the sochi summit - were negotiated with the aim of facilitating people-to-people contacts and travel between the european union and russia. this is not only in russia's interest, it is in our own interest. at the same time, these agreements are intended to ensure the free movement and legal residence of persons in both territories, in accordance with the roadmap for the establishment of the common area of freedom, security and justice. the roadmap sees these agreements, which still need to be ratified and then implemented, as a first step in a process aimed at facilitating the free movement of persons and readmission. the roadmap also envisages the further development of the visa dialogue with a view to examining the conditions for the introduction of visa-free travel on a reciprocal basis, but with a longer-term perspective and without any specific timing. the dialogue between the european union and russia on visa issues will also be continued on this basis.
thank you for your answer. i would like to ask you another question. in the agreement signed in sochi, there is a sentence saying that both parties reaffirm the intention to establish a visa-free travel regime between the russian federation and the european union, so my question is: do you really believe that it is in the interests of the european union to have a visa-free regime between the russian federation and the eu? if yes, then what are those interests?
president-in-office of the council. to be quite honest, i cannot answer this question today. as i have said before, this is a long-term perspective. there is no answer today, because there are many aspects to this question – there are not only aspects of external relations, but also questions of migration policy – and the situation will have to be closely observed both by the council and the commission to finally come to conclusions. this is certainly a matter of years and is not something that we need to decide today.
i would like to ask the minister. under the austrian presidency, the european union decided to raise the visa fee to eur 62. this will undoubtedly reduce the opportunities for ordinary russian citizens to visit eu countries, as well as for ukrainians, belarusians and residents of other non-eu countries, rather than 'new russians'. how does the austrian presidency of the eu view this step and what consequences does it envisage?
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a comprehensive report. in supporting him, i would like to underline that coordinated deployment of the european rail track management system, a strategic part of the trans-european network, should be applied uniformly to all european rail infrastructures. an effective signalling system with automatic speed control will help to avoid lethal accidents and will further improve the safety level of rail transport. implementation of the ertms will provide increased security by ensuring continuous monitoring during train operations. it will also ease the strain on the roads and shift transport flows to the railways. the ertms is superior to national systems because it is cheaper as far as new acquisitions and maintenance are concerned and safer at all speeds. i agree that the old systems and the ertms should not exist side by side for too long. the transition to the new system should be as quick as possible. the 20 different train protection and signalling systems that still exist today should be replaced by a single system in all eu member states in the near future. the sooner trains are equipped with european train control systems, thus allowing them to travel on major interoperable corridors, the sooner it will be possible to make savings on maintenance costs and eliminate costs associated with the use of multiple systems.
member of the commission. mr president, on behalf of my colleague, mr mccreevy, who could not be here tonight, i should like to thank mrs kauppi, who has been an outstanding rapporteur in terms of her mastery of this difficult and highly technical subject and her willingness to work constructively with the commission and all parties. she has done a first-class job, along with mrs berès, the chairwoman of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. thanks also go to the committee of european securities regulators for its excellent work. under the terms of the prodi declaration, the commission is committed to taking the fullest possible account of parliament’s view. we have more than met that obligation. indeed, we have incorporated around 90% of parliament’s amendments into the commission’s draft measures, which will be voted on by the european securities committee at the end of this month. on all the key points we agree. the level of institutional cooperation on this file has been exemplary. it shows that parliament, the commission and member states are able to work together in a sensible and pragmatic way in order to achieve the right result for europe’s financial markets and europe’s investors and consumers. the lamfalussy procedure, which we have all worked hard to develop over the past few years, works. of course it is important to agree as soon as possible on the european parliament’s legitimate right of call-back, which the commission supports. we believe that lamfalussy procedures will serve us well in the years ahead, allowing us to adapt our legislation rapidly to keep pace with market and technological developments, while maintaining essential democratic checks and balances. the markets in financial instruments directive will intensify competition among investment firms, stock exchanges and other trading venues and improve standards of service to investors and benefit companies by lowering the cost of capital. it will update the single passport for investment firms, allowing them to operate across the european union on the basis of an effective single authorisation and across a wide range of financial instruments. aside from stimulating cross-border competition, it will diversify the range of products and services that investors can access and markets that firms can tap into. but crucially and essentially, investor protection rules will be harmonised at a high level so that investors can feel confident in using the services of investment firms wherever they are in europe and wherever the investment firms originate from in europe. furthermore, these rules are principles-based in that they put the onus on firms to behave and to always act in the best interests of their clients. the rapid globalisation of financial markets is an opportunity for europe. these implementing measures for the markets in financial instruments directive mean that we are well placed to stay ahead. our financial markets are in good shape. they are growing strongly and are set to grow even faster in future as the union enlarges further, as our middle class expands and as people increasingly take responsibility for their own pension provisions. our common regulatory framework is more or less in place. mifid is the last piece of the jigsaw where markets are integrating fast. the european financial landscape is becoming commercially more attractive. leaving politics aside, the potential stock exchange measures represent a vote of confidence in europe, in our stock exchanges, our technological prowess and our regulatory system. in the end what matters is that the cost of capital in the eu remains as low as possible overall for all eu economic actors, that european union financial markets are properly regulated by european regulators, that european union markets can grow strongly, that cross-border clearing and settlement costs are significantly reduced and that the european union, through its new regulatory regime, can influence and develop strongly its financial relations with the rest of the world, using its good emerging model of regulation as its passport. the markets in financial instruments directive is a key step towards positioning europe as a global leader in financial services. that is why the commission is particularly thankful to parliament for its cooperation on this vital subject.
for the alde group mr president, first of all, i would like to express my sincere thanks to all those involved in the preparation of this resolution and the documents, in particular their amendments, which constitute the legal basis for the single market in investment services. the goodwill of competent and more experienced colleagues is the best proof for me, as a representative of a small and new member of the european union, that we can work together in an enlarged europe and implement important reforms together. i think that's really something to write home about. the other thing i would like to point out is that we need to look to the future, because the rapid and ambitious development of financial markets poses new challenges every day. i regret that not only is mr mccreevy not present in our debates today, but that the role of mr mccreevy and the european commission is not being fully appreciated in the current period of transition in the european financial market. so i would like to say, from my own experience, what are the things that we should emphasize when we talk about the global financial market challenges. i think our strategic task should be to pursue the development of a european financial market regulatory model of our own. we need to emphasize this more and more because we seem to be losing our way in aggressively expanding markets. we have our own traditions in european financial markets which should be nurtured and mentioned more often. i agree with the commissioner that europe now has a great opportunity to become a leader in financial market regulation, given the very rigorous regulatory practices of the united states and the regulatory challenges faced by emerging economies. what would be the elements of this unique european model? first of all, we must make it clear that we will use principle-based regulation rather than rule-based regulation, which is much more flexible and allows us to react more quickly to changes in the global market. the mifid documents state that more detailed regulation will ensure a uniform approach to the implementation of the measures envisaged in all eu countries, but that the same can be achieved by better coordination of the work of the supervisory authorities. the second component of the model should be the provision to promote convergence of supervisory interpretations and requirements. no rules will prevent, say, different financial cultures that are in southern europe, in great britain, in northern europe. this means that the experience of euronext and the nordic market should be used to coordinate a uniform interpretation of the legal provisions. i am sceptical of the european central bank's proposals to develop harmonised standards or proposals to provide more legal documents to create a market. we have enough documents, we just need to pay more attention to their convergence. of course, in the future financial markets may need their own single supervisory authority, but this is a future prospect and not very realistic at the moment. the third point i would like to make is that the efficiency of financial markets must be assessed in terms of the positions of the end user, which would mean the separation of services, the disclosure of the internal costs of large financial conglomerates and the management and disclosure of conflicts of interest between them.
mr commissioner, i am very sorry that you have not understood today why we have raised this issue and invited you to this chamber. it is not because we want more regulation of the markets, but because we lack political leadership based on the strategic guidelines for the development of the financial markets in the european union. we all know very well that the european union has a great tradition of principled financial regulation. those principles need to be declared. we are missing the declaration of those principles and as a result we feel confusion in the market, as a result there are different rumors, different opinions. i had very much hoped that by having a great european model, which emerging markets are eager to follow, we would be able to preserve it, because it now seems that the commission's indecision, i am sorry to say, is allowing that model to be washed away. let us say that the amendments to the prospectus directive which are now being discussed are also included. we are waiting for some kind of intermediate result, a transatlantic average that will not be good for europe or the united states. we should, in fact, be frank about our differences and perhaps then try to respect and accept each other's viewpoint. regarding the regulation of the clearing and settlement market, it is recognised that the issue is complex and may need to be addressed gradually. it is also important to have a european perspective and not to conform to the decisions of the big conglomerates. because doing nothing is not a liberal approach. when the regulator does nothing, then the law of the jungle takes over the market and the market is really disrupted, and most importantly, disrupted innovation, which is something we really don't want.
i would remind the rapporteur that the european parliament is often referred to as a flying parliament. we who fly to one of the eu capitals every week should be particularly concerned to make aviation a more environmentally friendly form of transport. the 'polluter pays' principle must be respected in aviation climate change policy. it is regrettable that air transport does not cover the external costs of its climate impact. it would be logical to include aviation in the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme. the money raised from such fees could be invested in new technologies to develop cleaner aircraft. the development of rail and bus transport could reduce both the pressure on congested airports and pollution from aviation. unfortunately, the rail and tram networks of lithuania and the other baltic states are not integrated into the eu infrastructure. they're outdated and overloaded. without a particular eu focus on the via baltica and especially the rail baltica projects, rail and road transport in this region will not be able to help aviation for very long.
i would like to thank mrs pilar del castillo vera for taking the initiative to tackle a subject of such importance for europe. i would like to emphasise that knowledge is a key factor in europe's ability to maintain its international competitive edge. by pooling resources and ensuring a competitive environment, the eu is the best place to contribute to the enhancement of europe's research potential, as it is not only inefficient but often too costly for member states to implement such programmes on their own. the eu should tackle brain drain more effectively by offering better research conditions and funding to its best scientists going to the us. i agree that universities play a key role in the creation and dissemination of knowledge and that cooperation between the higher education, research and production sectors should be strengthened. increased and more effective contributions to knowledge and innovation are needed to increase investment in research, improve european competitiveness and create more jobs. while it is in principle the responsibility of each country to promote greater and better investment, the eu, which is committed to market integration, should contribute to these efforts from its own budget, thereby encouraging the development of research and innovation at a faster pace.
member of the commission. the lawyer for these two gentlemen was in contact with our delegation again just last week. of course, there is constant contact. i would like to take up what you have said in the second question, namely whether the penalties for prolonged detention and prisons too far from the place of the families are too severe. we'll be happy to take it up.
member of the commission. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on the matter, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on the matter. the question of ngos, for example, is examined very clearly, and the legal situation is broadly similar to that in other countries. the question is how the laws are implemented! this is partly due to the conditions of detention. the question of implementation is also very much at stake here. and that's where we have to start.
i should like to ask you about the khodorkovsky case. recently anatoly yermolin, a deputy in the russian duma, spoke in the european parliament and reminded us of the attack on mikhail khodorkovsky. he was injured recently. mr yermolin stated that only the attention of russian democratic forces and especially the democratic countries of the west can save his life. do you think that the commission is paying enough attention to that case?
member of the commission. just today, we have approved a recommendation to the council with draft negotiating directives for a new agreement with russia. following internal eu discussions, the commission then held exploratory talks with russia, which have now resulted in broad consensus on a general approach. as a result of the last eu-russia summit in sochi, we were able to agree on the following. firstly, the aim is to conclude a new, legally-binding, very broad and comprehensive agreement, which should be durable and capable of facilitating the future development of relations. secondly, we would agree to avoid a legal vacuum. that means no withdrawal from the partnership and cooperation agreement that exists at the moment. we are both committed to implementing the ‘roadmaps for the four common spaces’. this agreement should adopt a strategic approach to the relationship and it should emphasise that respect for common values represents an essential basis. it should also build on the objectives of these common spaces. in particular, we want to include the further development of our trade relations, depending on the progress of russia’s accession to the wto. of course, as i said before we want to further consolidate the energy relationship, on the basis of the most important principles, which are reciprocity, fairness and equality.
thank you for your answer, commissioner. there are some signs that russia is increasing the pressure in regard to energy policy. for example, a polish company is now buying a lithuanian refinery, mažeikių nafta, and russia has immediately started to interrupt the oil supplies. would it be possible during the g8 meeting in st petersburg to pay attention to the question of energy policy?
vice-president of the commission. the commission is convinced that the moment has come to make full use of the possibilities offered by the current treaties and particularly bridging clauses. that will set in place the conditions necessary for reaching our goals in the interim period before the entry into force of the constitutional treaty. however, the commission can confirm that it is on the whole ready to contribute to the debate on the use of the bridging clauses as shown by covering this matter in the political review of the hague programme presented on 28 june. initial reactions from the vast majority of member states have been very positive, and it came out from the informal meeting of foreign ministers of 27 and 28 may that most member states endorse the commission’s approach as anticipated in the communication of 10 may on the future of europe. this determination to make progress was confirmed by the june 2006 european council conclusions, which call upon the incoming finnish presidency to explore, in close cooperation with the commission, the possibility of improving decision-making and action in the area of freedom, justice and security, on the basis of existing treaties. however, this is clearly an issue that needs to be carefully prepared at the highest political level. the commission welcomes the intention of the finnish presidency to have an in-depth debate as the logical next step. the commission is convinced that parliament will help to stimulate this debate as usual in institutional matters. i know that president borrell has recently again encouraged the commission to take such a way forward. i am convinced that it is a matter of the utmost importance for the parliament and a unique opportunity to bring freedom, security and justice matters closer to the citizens, thus increasing the efficiency, transparency and accountability of the legislative process. you will probably know that just yesterday the prime minister of finland confirmed, at our meeting in helsinki, his full determination and the determination of the finnish presidency to hold further discussions, starting with the informal council of interior ministers, which will take place in tampere at the end of the september.
vice-president of the commission. yes, of course we are thinking about this communication strategy. in my own view, the best way to show the public how important it is to abolish powers of veto is to give them concrete examples. one such example is an initiative concerning a minimum standard with regard to procedural rights, where we are still in a stalemate after two years of discussion precisely because of the unanimity system. again, for example, when we talk about cross-border police cooperation, we are still blocked after 18 months of very difficult discussions because of unanimity. these are concrete examples for the public. does the public think it is useful to have procedural rights or police cooperation at european level? then please help us.
how are you going to ensure all this cooperation and public information if the commission is delaying the preparation of an information system to enable the schengen agreement to operate in the new and old member states so that information can be exchanged? we have information in lithuania that the new member states will not be able to join schengen in time and the package you are now proposing will probably be difficult to implement because the information system that would require the data is not ready.
the challenges of the global economy are not beyond european industry and require urgent solutions. it is good that the commission has responded to the situation of eu industry and has presented policy provisions to strengthen eu manufacturing. the commission's emphasis on the existence of industrial policy challenges that need to be addressed at european level is important. these are competition issues, the regulation of the single market and social and economic cohesion. indeed, a new approach to industrial policy is needed. as a competence of national states and private business, eu industry develops sectors using medium and high technology and a low or medium skilled workforce, and therefore loses competitiveness compared to emerging economies. however, the implementation of the new approach requires long-term action. member states cannot restructure their economies in a single day. this is particularly relevant for new members. the european commission represented china in the wto accession negotiations, without taking into account the industrial situation of the future members. paradoxically, the eu has a common trade policy but no common industrial policy. the sectoral actions for textiles, leather, footwear and furniture provided for in the commission's communication are based solely on studies of competitiveness, economic situation and place of production, and the horizontal level provides for the restructuring of these sectors. however, the results of this possible restructuring are likely to benefit those companies that have increased their production or those countries that do not see an industrial future in the eu. this is shown by the anti-dumping investigations carried out by the commission, which are intended to take account of the interests of businesses that have moved their production outside the eu. and the industries of the member states are left to unfair competition. the commission should not therefore be drawing up decisions which are contrary to its own communication and which are protectionist towards individual businessmen. i also invite the commission to develop long-term forecasts and guidelines for the competitive development of eu industry up to 2030-2050.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and stress that the directive under consideration is of importance to every country in the european union, especially those operating nuclear power stations. the commission's proposals for cooperation in the transport and disposal of nuclear waste or spent fuel reflect the eu's spirit of solidarity and forward-looking approach. on the other hand, there is no doubt that the control and prior authorisation system for shipments of radioactive waste must be tightened. lithuania is facing a problem of spent fuel storage with the closure of the first reactor at the ignalina nuclear power plant and plans to close the second one in three years. at present, the waste is temporarily buried in special sites. the decision to build a new, modern nuclear power plant in ignalina together with neighbouring countries would make the directive under consideration even more relevant for the whole region. i would also stress the need to promote research into the decontamination of nuclear waste. such a priority could also be included in the eu's 7th research framework programme.
president of the council. mr president, i think the link between the border guard agency and integration is a little bit remote, but during the finnish presidency we will also be looking for concrete proposals and proposals on the functioning of the border guard agency.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, member states are free to set up their own tax systems within the limits of community law. the council shall consider proposals for harmonisation if and when the commission makes them. it should be recalled that on 1 december 1997 the council adopted a resolution on the rules of procedure applicable to business taxation in order to deal with possible adverse tax measures which have or may have a significant effect on the establishment of economic activities in the community. the code of conduct group shall assess, in accordance with the criteria set out in the code of conduct, whether a tax measure introduced by a member state is anti-competitive or not. the member state concerned shall, on a voluntary basis, repeal tax measures assessed as harmful by the code of conduct group. member states are also obliged to refrain from introducing new harmful measures. in addition, the commission is currently undertaking intensive technical preparations for a proposal for a common consolidated community tax base. the commission considers that such a tax base would make a significant contribution to the lisbon strategy, as it would improve efficiency in the internal market, leading to an improvement in the eu's competitive position on the world market. however, the income tax bracket is not addressed in this proposal.
i thank the minister for his reply, but you have quoted the commission and its initiatives several times. i am interested to know how finland, as the presidency, thinks about tax uniformity. the bad, the things that lead to unfair competition, that is understandable, but i want to ask whether the attempt to level the playing field in taxation is the right thing to do, because in the european union today we are seeing such initiatives. how does finland view these initiatives? do you not think that there should be competition between member states in tax matters, in tax systems, because otherwise we are really going too far in the direction of harmonisation? we, the new countries, joined the european union without knowing that today there would be a tendency towards tax harmonisation.
for the alde group first of all, of course, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work and i am pleased that they contain a number of ideas which were endorsed by the committee on employment and social affairs in the vote on my opinion on migration and development. the community is increasingly receiving immigrants from almost all developing countries in asia, africa and latin america, and the scale of this phenomenon is unlikely to diminish for the time being. since we do not have a comprehensive community strategy for the development of the labour market, including migration from developing countries, this report will partially fill the gap. in the absence of a common community policy to regulate migration flows and when national legal regulation is inadequate, the conditions for illegal migration, exploitation of people, trafficking in human beings and other crimes are created. such cases are also found in lithuania. people are fleeing lithuania, while employers are asking for immigrants from third countries. the report says that immigration from developing countries will help to address labour market issues in the community. they also say that migrants help their countries develop by sending money there. this is partly true, but i think it is a rather narrow view and the problem of employment will remain as long as we restrict the free movement of workers within the community, as long as we do not understand the problem in a complex way, not in fragments. in order to help developing countries in poverty, the money that the community has to give, as the vice-president said, must go beyond food and budgetary financing and go above all to small businesses and job creation. then people will have jobs and they will take care of the development of their countries.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. i congratulate mr carlotti on the preparation of this report. i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee for preparing our opinion. i also spoke about this last night, but i did not touch on one important issue, the issue of skilled migrants or the mental leakage that can have a negative impact on the development of the country. but i think that this process should not be stopped, but that it should be mutually beneficial. i would therefore like to stress that i believe it is very important to introduce a clear and as simple as possible procedure for the recognition of qualifications in the community. also introduce the us green card equivalent, which would particularly stimulate exchange migration. recognize that migration without proper integration conditions is detrimental to both sides. colleagues, the french won yesterday. i congratulate them, but i congratulate them even more because the majority of the players who defended france's honour were themselves or their parents migrants. they're french now. this is a great example of integration. i'm glad you did.
for the alde group migration, especially economic migration, has a history of more than three centuries. however, in the current period, it is the developed countries of the world that are driving the migration of skilled labour from developing countries. we are trying to solve the problem of ageing populations and the shortage of labour in our countries at the expense of third countries. we expect to meet the projected future labour demand not through one of the most important means of increasing labour productivity - more active innovation - but through migration. on the one hand, by implementing development policies, providing developing countries with over 55 per cent of global aid, the european union is supporting the growth of a skilled workforce in developing countries. but on the other hand, it's trying to get the best of that workforce to solve its economic problems. very often, this workforce has been trained in europe or with european union funds. thus, part of eu development aid is actually used to finance the eu labour market itself. migrants use the money they earn in the eu to support their families, but their contribution to the development of their countries of origin would be immeasurably greater if they worked and built their wealth in their own countries rather than abroad. migration policy is not just an eu matter. agreements with third countries and the development of migration policies, particularly in third countries, are one of the prerequisites for economic growth in developing countries. developing countries themselves need to prioritise not only migration policies but also, and in particular, their strategies for building and expanding their economies and creating jobs for their workforce. and the european union must help implement these strategies, or the developing countries will remain in poverty forever.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur and to draw attention to one aspect of development and migration that increases the wealth and intellectual potential of already prosperous states and bleeds developing countries dry. i am talking about the brain drain. development policies will not yield results unless this process at least slows down. at the moment the eu offers help to developing countries with one hand, which is visible, and takes it away with the other, which is invisible. first, i suggest we tidy things up at home in the european union, where we are seeing a similar brain drain from the new to the old countries. the process is even more painful, since internal borders and barriers are diminishing and disappearing. the eu must create a special fund to regulate the brain drain and soften its impact. after sorting out the situation at home, we could use that as a basis for cooperation with the developing countries and with the usa, which profits greatly from the brain drain.
russia has realized that the best way to influence public opinion is through non-governmental organizations. such foundations are widespread in the former imperial states. russia can use its advantageous position in the global energy market to spend more money on propaganda campaigns. the special fund for this purpose, euroregion livonia-baltia, already has representations in estonia, latvia, belarus and the kaliningrad region. the foundation officially declares its desire to activate business relations, cultural cooperation between the baltic states, the kaliningrad region, belarus and ukraine. however, the founders of the russian-initiated fund have already made a name for themselves with their high-profile actions against the construction of the spent fuel storage facilities at the ignalina nuclear power plant. the eu, which promotes democratic processes in the post-soviet space, risks losing the initiative in an information war. i have already called on the european parliament, and i call on it again, to take a more active role in promoting democratic processes in the post-soviet space and in the eu's eastern neighbourhood, and to express its views on anti-western propaganda.
mr president, in the middle of july, in belarus, a country in the middle of our continent, the court sentenced alexander kozulin, the chairman of the country's social democratic party, for daring to challenge alexander lukashenko in the presidential elections. he was sentenced to five and a half years in prison. the presidency of the european union issued a declaration on behalf of not only the 25 member states but also 12 other european states. calls for the immediate release of aleksandr kozulin and other political prisoners; i just spoke to the convict's wife, irina. she said she could only see him once a month, that he had poor eyesight, a weak heart, advanced osteochondrosis. i am convinced that the european parliament should also react after the holidays to the first conviction in belarus, motivated not by alleged criminal but by political crimes for so-called organizing riots. i think that the president of parliament and the political groups should have their say, if they can. the minsk regime hopes that such and similar cases will not provoke a more sensitive reaction in europe. it shouldn't be.
the crisis in lebanon has highlighted a new situation in the middle east. the key player is iran, which is backing terrorists in iraq, lebanon and palestine, providing them with russian high-tech weapons and seeking to have its own weapons of mass destruction. the forces behind all this are completely irresponsible. remember stalin, who said on the eve of the invasion of poland: "we need a great war to achieve our goals". iran is going in that direction without even explaining. we are sending troops into lebanon now, and they will not be directed against the aggressive iran-syria-hezbollah axis, but will be directed by others. if we don't dare say that those forces cannot include iran or other countries that do not recognize israel, then we look like retarded children. the european parliament is to adopt a conceptual resolution.
for the alde group colleagues, albert camus said: 'to lose one's life is a small thing. but to see our lives lose their meaning, lose their purpose, that's what's unbearable. you can't live without a purpose. in this ever-evolving world, more and more people are disappointed in themselves and others, are stressed, do not see the meaning of life, and are unable to face new challenges and solve problems. more and more people are turning to professionals, psychologists, and psychiatrists, who were shunned a decade ago. there is no shame in admitting that you need help. unfortunately, there is still a stigma against these people in society. the 10th of september is world suicide prevention day and the 10th of october is world mental health day. does it not seem paradoxical that every month we are forced to bring such painful problems to the attention of the public? sadly, though, it must be acknowledged that with the apparent improvement in mental-health care, the number of people suffering from these disorders is increasing. suicide rates are increasing at a catastrophic rate. every 40 seconds, someone in the world commits suicide. every three seconds, someone attempts suicide. my country, lithuania, loses more than one and a half thousand people every year because of this, and in this respect, unfortunately, we are the leader in the whole european region, even ahead of russia and other former soviet countries. clearly, the present situation cannot be ignored. in lithuania, the preparation of a national mental health strategy, which will soon be adopted by parliament, has already started after the helsinki ministerial conference. in addition, mental health is a well-established public policy priority and will be one of the four areas for which we will use the structural funds allocated to the health sector. we recognise the need to expand community services as an alternative to permanent care institutions, while addressing human rights issues in a modern way. it is impossible for one person to suffer in silence, and therefore it is necessary to join forces to solve mental health problems. i believe that the european union green paper on improving the mental health of the population is precisely that important first step towards a common solution. it's not just the treatment that's important. for the first time, we talked about mental health promotion, disease prevention and recovery. we also need to share information on best practices and experiences with colleagues from other countries, and to build networks of such information. we have come to realize that these problems are not the responsibility of the experts alone. this is a matter for society and for each of us individually. with understanding, new hope the theme of world suicide prevention day reflects the hope of all those who are not alienated from the pain of others that society will turn to the suffering person.
it is not often that the rapporteur presents a prepared document in such an impartial and personalized manner, and i congratulate him on that. this report and the debate is an important step by the european parliament in helping the commission to develop a new mental health strategy, which is of particular importance for the new eu member states. it is common to have very poor public mental health indicators high rates of suicide, violence and addiction, especially to alcohol. the new states have inherited an inefficient mental health care system based on large psychiatric treatment and care institutions that increase social exclusion and stigma. today, these institutions are also underfunded, often on the back foot, and do not fulfil even their limited functions. meanwhile, there is a clear lack of community-based services integrated into the overall health and social care infrastructure. we usually have separate wards in mental hospitals . home care and community services are much more humane, more in line with human rights and more cost-effective. we don't have a tradition of nursing homes, of helping the community, so the old system is having a hard time getting its foot in the door. the growing number of children in state-run institutions is a particular concern. this again shows that we lack alternative systems to help at-risk parents raise and educate their children properly. some new countries have already taken the first steps towards introducing new provisions in line with eu principles. the national mental health strategy for lithuania, for example, will be submitted to parliament for approval this year. lithuania initiated the project 'children's and adolescents' mental health in the enlarged european union: development of modern strategies and practices'. the project was supported by the commission and involves 18 countries and 34 associated partners.
we are discussing a coherent, clear document, and i would like to congratulate tom hendrik ilves. albania's path towards the european union is perhaps the most paved, if compared with other countries on the continent. the 20th century was not a happy one for a country that was at the bottom of many economic and social indicators before world war ii. the term 'albanization' was then coined as a synonym for the self-isolation policy imposed by the regime at the time, which meant backwardness. to date, albania's isolation from the world is deeper than that of any other former communist bloc country. today, albania, like the other countries of the western balkans, is feeling the magnetism of the european union. it is this pull that accelerates reforms, strengthens democracy, human rights, and at the same time improves the lives of citizens. but i have noticed in my visit to albania that the tension between position and opposition is very intense there, when the aim is not to compete but to destroy each other. the promise of half the state budget to fight corruption and crime is a no-brainer, but there is still no concrete result. overcoming the shadows of the past, regional cooperation is an area where albania can demonstrate the flexibility and europeanism of its foreign policy. the laxmi papers, which will expose tirana's position as constructive or even contrary, will be decisive in the negotiations on kosovo's status. i am sure that this will also be the key to determining how far albania is still from eu membership. implementing the stabilisation and association agreement, learning from the experience of countries that have successfully made the transition to and joined the european union, should help albania to achieve a decisive turning point on its european path.
mr president, we must not look at the middle east as a single crisis, but as a global picture. when we consider and even criticize the efforts of the united states to push back tyranny and spread democracy in iraq and elsewhere, we must also see the games of russia and china in a region that could easily become a crater of global terrorist war fire. things are moving in that very threatening direction, with russia-backed iran becoming the most aggressive player in a very crucial place for humanity. iran's political expansion now aims to prevent democracy in lebanon and syria, stability in iraq, peace in palestine. by these actions, the iranian regime is easily distracting the un and the eu and is winning more and more time for its ultimate goal of nuclear hegemony in the middle east. this is the collapse of the non-proliferation utopia. the next new page in history is the terrorist organizations that come to power in states through elections. for example, hamas and hezbollah are already involved in the governance of states. no one has ever asked hezbollah ministers in lebanon to choose between working in a democratic government or in a terrorist organization. on the contrary, the united nations is sitting with hezbollah at the negotiating table. negotiations with al-qaeda are coming. many of our problems are caused by our unwillingness to stand united against evil, yet we are too late to surrender. israel is desperately defending itself. western democracies have no initiative, so far they have defended without strategy and lost. it is time for europe to wake up.
president of the council. mr president, these common values do not need to be created any more, as they already exist. they are enshrined in the partnership and cooperation agreements and russia has committed to them as a member of the council of europe and the osce. but of course there are many challenges to translating these values into practice and legislation. these shortcomings in the independence of the russian courts are certainly challenges to the emerging rule of law, which we are following very closely. however, it is very important that this strategic partnership involves a lot of mutual contact. for example, the next human rights consultations will be held in november. the political dialogue with russia, which is held on a regular basis, also provides an opportunity to discuss and highlight these human rights problems.
president of the council. mr president, the european union and russia are strongly linked in many different ways: through peace and stability, economic cooperation and many other things. it is therefore important that the strategic partnership provides a good basis and framework for this interdependence between us. the contacts and political dialogue that are currently in place can and are already reminding russia of the human rights challenges, and at this stage at least the council considers that the existing mechanisms provide a good basis for such contacts and for improving the human rights situation.
mr president, mr minister, speaking of the strategic partnership between the european union and russia, i would draw the council's attention to the fact that this parliament noted in its resolutions this year that 'the eu's current partnership with russia is more pragmatic than strategic, because common economic interests have come first and fundamental changes in the areas of human rights and the rule of law are not being achieved'. does the council not think that the european parliament's position should be listened to more closely and taken into account? in particular, the current partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and russia is coming to an end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when i speak of eu-china relations, i would like to emphasise the economic relations, which are very closely linked to the political and human rights aspects highlighted in the report. china is becoming one of the eu's most important external trade partners, and it is therefore essential to develop cooperation between the eu and china, in particular economic and trade relations. the development of eu-china economic relations is currently facing certain obstacles. so far, china is not a free market, but a mixed market and planned economy. the ruling communist party, with its state capital, can interfere in the economy, and the authorities try to maintain their influence through bureaucratic procedures, administrative requirements, which makes it very difficult for eu investments and goods to enter and operate in this market. following the accession of china to the wto, the chinese production started to flow into the eu market. the trade balance between the eu and china is increasingly unfavourable to the eu. chinese goods are displacing local goods, and china is not willing to open its markets. we must strive, in the context of the eu-china strategic partnership launched in 2003, to ensure that china too creates a climate conducive to foreign trade, improves the legal protection of foreign investments and opens up markets to eu goods and investments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the white paper on services of general interest published by the european commission more than two years ago. it is regrettable that the liberalisation of the services market has been very limited so far. the white paper defines services of general interest and services of general economic interest in a very abstract way. the concept of public service is not defined and therefore the concept of 'public service obligations' is not used in the book, but is used to cover air, rail, road transport, energy, which are also classified as services of general economic interest. it is therefore not clear what is at stake, and the main objective of the white paper was to produce legislation to regulate and enable the implementation of one of the most important freedoms of the eu's internal market, the free movement of services. the situation of services of general interest is very close to that of the services directive, which provided for economic services, services of general interest, now with a series of exceptions excluding transport, postal services and postal services for electricity, gas, water supply without applying the principle of origin. most services in the eu are thus difficult to reconcile with the principles of the internal market, competitiveness, consumer representation and the free movement of services. market protectionism not only reduces the competitiveness of the economy, but also prevents and will not allow consumers to be provided with services of the right quality in the right time. and this is evident when you travel around the european union. as regards services of general interest, it is necessary to define them precisely in order to avoid their free interpretation in the member states in the interests of protecting markets: to draw up a legal act regulating them, to take account of the principle of subsidiarity, to open up service markets to competition in the interests of the well-being of its citizens and the competitiveness of the eu. i understand that regional local government is very important in the provision of services, but behind that importance there is often a market protectionism, because services are first and foremost a big business.
member of the commission. in our plans for the post-2012 period we consider it very important to bring on board all the big emitters of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. you are quite correct that china is one of the big emitters, but you forget that the biggest emitter is the united states, which emits about 25% of the greenhouse gases in the world. china comes second, with about 14%, together with the european union, but in order to have the equilibrium which is needed regarding the contribution by each country to the battle against climate change, we have to take into account what the united nations climate change conference states, i.e. that each country should contribute in a common but differentiated way, which means that countries like china, india and other fast-developing countries, which have contributed to a smaller degree historically to the creation of the greenhouse phenomenon and have only a fraction of the per capita income of the developed countries, have to contribute in a different way according to their capabilities and their possibilities, without hindering their economic development and without creating unfair competition with other countries.
member of the commission. you are right. there are quite a few electricity companies that have windfall profits because they included the cost of free allocations in electricity prices. there are, therefore, windfall profits across europe. there are two ways to fight that. one is by auctioning some of the allowances instead of allocating them for free. that is a possibility for the second trading period. countries can auction approximately 10% of allocations and the proceeds could be used either to promote innovation or to lessen the burden of taxes for labour, for example, or for other purposes. the second way is to liberalise the gas and power market in the european union.
vice-president of the commission. firstly, sis ii is of crucial importance, because it is one precondition, if not the only one, for the enlargement of the schengen area, which is a true european area for the free movement of people. my second point is that enlargement of the schengen area is a crucial political priority for the european union and it will remain so. i can confirm the commission’s full commitment and my personal commitment to achieving this goal as soon as possible. some technical problems have emerged in this first phase of the technical implementation of this very complex system which, as you know, will connect the central part here in strasbourg to all member states’ national systems. there are problems and delays due to some litigation. there were technical problems with the preparation of the strasbourg site, but these problems have now been totally solved in close cooperation with the french authorities. a large majority of member states have requested at least an extra three months in order to test the connections needed between the central system and the national systems. my fourth point is that agreement on the legal basis has not yet been reached. we are working very hard. a few days ago there was a very fruitful trialogue to try to secure an agreement between the rapporteur, the council presidency and myself. the implementation of national projects has been delayed in all member states that have asked to join the schengen area, except one. all the experts in all member states, including the new ones, were and are perfectly aware of the current situation. that is why national experts have proposed that there should be a new timetable for the implementation of sis ii. next week the council of interior ministers will probably approve a new timetable for sis ii. it will approve a proposal for a new timetable, which will be visible, pragmatic and realistic, and will also decide to establish a task force formed by national experts from the member states to monitor continuously the national implementation of national systems. following that, there will be a concrete possibility to discuss a realistic timetable. on the one hand, it is really a political commitment, but on the other, it is extremely complex from a technical point of view. the delay has occurred not because of political problems but because of technical problems, and all the member states have been made aware of them through their national experts cooperating in the technical committee.
commissioner, thank you for your reply, but last week in tampere, when the ministers of the interior and justice were discussing the schengen issue, it was said that this is still a political issue and that not all countries will join the new system as soon as they are ready, but that the old countries will join first and then the new ones. i'd like you to confirm or deny that, which would certainly be much more pleasant. we expect a quick response on the actual agenda and actual expansion dates.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can assure you that it is. the implementation of the sis 2 project is one of the essential prerequisites for the unification and enlargement of the schengen area. i believe that the timetable, which will be approved by the council of ministers next week, will indicate very certain dates for the accession of the new member states to schengen. as announced earlier, there is a second premise, namely that each of the new member states is able to adapt its own security and border control measures as laid down in the schengen agreement itself. if these two conditions are met, the date set by the council of ministers will be a certain date for entry into schengen.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the idea of an intermediate solution, or in other words schengen 1+, was raised by a delegation. i think that is a solution that we can seriously consider, provided that it allows us the added value that schengen 2 will certainly bring. i would remind the honourable members that over a year ago the commission itself put forward the hypothesis that: why not find a middle ground between schengen 1 and schengen 2? we have called this the schengen 1+ solution. at that time the vast majority of member states rejected this intermediate hypothesis, saying that it would not be sufficiently certain what schengen 2 would be like. today, as you know, this hypothesis has been put forward by the portuguese delegation, and we shall consider it again, but the condition is added value. the other question is: "what is the added value?" schengen 2 will be characterized by an immediate, real-time connection between a central section in strasbourg, a second section in salzburg and the national systems, which will be linked by a direct exchange of information in much faster time and with much more secure protection of personal data than is the case now. this is the main feature which makes schengen 2 the most advanced proposal yet on the ground.
commissioner, i would like to ask you about security. i am sure that the commission is very interested in the security and reliability of these schengen borders but, as you know, the new countries have invested millions of euros in creating this information system and, with the postponement of their entry into the schengen system, there are some fears that these systems will be outdated and not suited to the new demands.
member of the commission. i cannot give you an answer at the moment about those specific figures, because that was not made clear in the letter or the oral question. we understood the main question concerned the budget amendment proposal, to which we tried to reply. if you would like an explanation about specific amounts, we will provide it in writing.
member of the commission. the member's question is on the issue of the brain- or skills-drain from member states that joined the union on 1 may 2004. he suggests that the commission should create a special new fund to reduce the impact of brain-drain. the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by community law. after enlargement in 2004, despite the transitional arrangements for the free movement of workers from eight new countries, the eu saw increased mobility from new member states. however, in the report we published recently on the functioning of the transitional arrangements, the commission pointed out that flows from the eu-10, the new member states, had been fairly limited in relation to the overall working-age population and that they are balanced, at least in part, by mobility from the original 15. the report shows that migration flows are driven by factors related to supply and demand conditions, both in sending and receiving countries. moreover, and more importantly, as pointed out in the report, rather than seeking permanent employment in another country, a significant percentage of migrant workers stay in the receiving country for a limited period only. consequently, migrant workers often return to their country of origin, which will subsequently profit from the accumulated experiences gained abroad, especially by highly skilled workers. in this respect, we can speak about the concept of brain-gain. it should also be noted that although the ‘old’ member states attract talented people from the new member states, the united states of america proves to be the most popular destination for tertiary students or educated people from the new member states. the problem of brain-drain, insofar as it exists, seems more linked to the salary differential between the country of origin and destination countries than to the quality of the education systems in migrants’ countries of origin. the new member states perform quite well under most indicators in the education-training 2010 programme, where we have benchmarks and very concrete objectives. the answer to the issue lies in the good use of the significant opportunities that will be provided by the structural funds for the 2007 to 2013 period. the structural funds will bring a substantial contribution to the economies of new member states and, if used well, should provide the means to ensure steady growth and job creation. the progressive convergence of the new member states’ economies with those of older member states should reduce the existing salary differential and therefore eliminate a major reason for brain-drain. the commission, rather than supporting the creation of a special fund or efforts to regulate migration, would therefore encourage new member states to use the structural funds effectively. the european social fund, in particular, will continue to support a comprehensive approach to education and training in the programming period beginning in 2007, namely by supporting measures to develop employability and improve the labour-market relevance of initial and vocational education and training, with a view to encouraging innovation and as part of a knowledge-based economy.
thank you, commissioner, for your detailed reply. i admit, it didn't bother me, because the use of funds is a really important thing and freedom of movement is a really important thing, but new countries bleed to death giving their best people to the old countries, which are certainly richer. i would ask you in one word, however: do you feel any injustice in the situation as it is? do you feel that the principle of solidarity has been violated?
member of the commission. i would not talk about injustice; i would prefer to talk about freedom, which we have, and responsibility, which is the best part of freedom, or the other side of the same coin. when we speak about the ‘brain drain’, it is not only the new member states versus older member states. the same happens in the union versus most competitive partners in the world. when i was in france and germany they talked about the brain drain to the united states. so either we are aware of the problems and the lack of competitiveness, the lack of value placed on knowledge or the lack of respect for knowledge in europe, and improve conditions for intellectual property for patents on this continent for so many issues connected to innovation and the transfer of knowledge into real life, the real economy, production and services, or we will comment and lament later on, and maybe even more, because time is passing quickly and globalisation is really influencing our lives. all our policies, programmes, strategies aim towards this goal. i do not want to anticipate developments in the commission, but in a few weeks’ time we would like to propose, for example, the establishment of a european institute of technology. either we create space for a european dimension in knowledge and the transfer of knowledge and we improve together or, as i said before, we will lose time and momentum. i do not want to discuss that at length now, maybe next time i shall say more. the lahti summit in october should deal with the ten points for improving innovation in europe. the first two points are education and universities and an institute of technology, and then there are others. i think that political awareness of the problem is there. if there is also the political will to deliver, we can find better answers and better situations in the future. we need to work towards that.
member of the commission. thank you not only for the question but also for the encouragement that we should stay open. politically i think europe is a synonym of openness. if that is true, then we usually tend to solve problems. if we close, if we isolate ourselves, then problems usually get even bigger in time. on internal decisions and the opening of the labour market, this is, of course, the right of member states. the commission has always argued in favour of openness or at least gradual opening rather than moratoria. the report on the second anniversary of enlargement showed that those that opened their markets benefited, which confirms that until now integration in europe has proved to be a win-win situation. of course it must be carried out under certain rules and criteria and, if that is the case, then benefits will continue to be gained by those who are more open. on qualifications and integration, one of the important contributions will come this month from the commission. last night there was a debate in this house on a european qualifications framework, which should create the basic matrix for comparison and transfer of qualifications between different autonomous national qualification systems or qualification frameworks. in this sense the value of the qualifications will be higher because we will make them more readable and transferable and we will empower people to use them more properly. this is one of the most important legal and political answers in order to turn our people in the same union into citizens more than tourists.
last year, the european commission adopted a green paper on the management of economic migration in the european union, which proposed to compensate third countries, i.e. developing countries, for the cost of intellectual leakage. they are economic migrants, just like the lithuanians, going to the european union, but it's not called economic migration, it's called free movement of persons. why would the commission not want to test the measures it proposes to third parties on the internal market?
for the alde group i would like to thank the rapporteur for clearly highlighting the importance of the financial sector for the development of the indian economy. this factor determines the outcome of economic cooperation between india and the european union. investments are strongly influenced by investor confidence in countries and by the regulation and accounting standards applied to financial markets. indian businesses should therefore be encouraged to benefit from the european union's experience in ensuring adequate investor protection. i would ask the commission to promote more often the experience we have gained, the model of financial regulation in the european union that we are carefully developing and cultivating so that indian businesses can benefit from our experience. to this end, the commission's work should be coordinated more closely, so that the different commissioners communicate more frequently and that cooperation with third countries is not only the task of the commissioners in that area but also of all the other commissioners. one of the major challenges is that the financial sector in india is not sufficiently liberalised. it requires a high level of investment, especially in order to expand into rural areas. india's progress cannot be achieved without the development of rural areas, but that development of the financial sector cannot be achieved without the arrival of the big global and european banks. therefore, cooperation and participation of indian regulators in joint expert groups between the european union and third countries in the preparation of relevant legislation should be encouraged in order to provide the right conditions for joint work from the outset. i would also like to call for a bilateral dialogue, a comprehensive economic cooperation between the european union and india, agreements to be reached. because multilateral negotiations do not always reflect the specific requirements of the relationship.
for the alde group i would like to agree with the rapporteur that if we are to improve the economic situation of the fishing industry, we must put forward all the proposals that can contribute to this, both in the near future and by reviewing the measures to achieve substantial changes in the medium or long term. since this sector is highly sensitive to the effects of objective natural conditions, we must create a system capable of compensating for losses suffered for objective reasons beyond our control. it is necessary to establish a system of public insurance, both at national and community level, which can help the fisheries sector to cope with unforeseen events. we already have similar measures in other sectors. i would like to say that i support the rapporteur's short-term measures. as regards long-term measures, it is essential to invest sufficiently in the research framework programme in the fisheries sector, in particular with a view to enhancing energy efficiency. the european fisheries fund should continue to provide assistance for the renewal and modernisation of the fishing fleet. in this connection, i would point out that the proposals made in previous european parliament resolutions must be taken fully into account.
i congratulate the rapporteur and the main thrust of the report. the european union can and must become a leader not only in terms of aid levels but also in terms of the efficiency with which aid funds are allocated. the lack of support for developing countries is regrettable, but we must first make better use of what we have. the need to coordinate the delivery of support better, to eliminate unnecessary formalities and to strengthen controls, and to respond to a changing situation. the role of the european commission should only be strengthened, especially in coordinating the delivery of support. this would also benefit the new member states. their contribution to aid to developing countries is gradually increasing. for example, lithuania is already changing its status at the world bank from a host country to a donor country, which will allow my country to contribute more actively to the bank's development programmes. a very important factor is the support of the public. it's not as bright as you'd like it to be. in the new countries, there is a need to promote in every way the understanding that by helping developing countries we are helping ourselves. in times of globalization, the world is like a system of interlocking vessels, where poverty and hunger, unrest and natural disasters somewhere in africa or asia, are having a devastating effect on the stability and living standards of europe or america. the beneficiaries of state aid must demonstrate their ability to manage the funds granted appropriately. this problem should be given the highest priority by parliaments, and more attention by both eu member states and beneficiary countries.
mr. president, we need to meet in brussels to discuss lahti. the beginning of the session today has shown how divided, divided and easily manipulated we are. the european parliament has shown itself incapable of responding immediately with a common document to the terrible crime in moscow. just so he doesn't get in the mood for the russian president meeting in europe. this is another sign that the european union does not have its own european policy towards russia. that we have and are pursuing a russian european policy towards russia. the bludgeoning of the leaders is the worst service to russia, if anyone still wants to believe that russia could become a european country sooner than europe becomes a political appendage of undemocratic russia. we keep talking about a single european energy strategy, but we turn a blind eye to the fact that russia will not allow this and already has its trojan horse in the middle of europe. the schröderists and others suffering from political cataracts will continue to destroy a united europe. unfortunately, here in parliament we have no choice but to speak quite frankly about the conscious moral capitulation of europe's powerful. the russian president is being absolutely frank when he says that his russia, his regime, is not suited to european values. europe, according to russian politicians, may throw away its energy charter along with the human rights charter. because europe will sign whatever is prepared and dictated by russia. this was said in sochi and on many other occasions. that's what real partnership and common space is all about. it's in that public space that journalists are being killed, and we don't dare to look at whether it's our public space. and then we're getting all upset about north korea, and we're circling iran, instead of frankly admitting that both the buttons in tehran and pyongyang are being pushed by the same player, located about halfway between. it's worth at least realizing that anna politkovskaya was not only murdered by putinist russia, the last brave russian journalist was murdered by conformist europe. (applause) i would like to thank you.
the european footwear industry has shrunk by a third in the last five years because it cannot compete with cheap government-subsidized production in asian countries. the adoption of anti-dumping duties on chinese and vietnamese leather footwear for two years gave a temporary victory to eu countries seeking to preserve footwear production against eu countries moving production to asia. the imposition of duties is also opposed by large retail chains of footwear importers from asia. market protection measures are necessary as long as asian countries are subsidising energy, applying preferential taxes, polluting the environment. this will at least partially mitigate the differences in the operating conditions of european and asian footwear producers, but only temporarily. the shift of production to a country with cheaper labour seems inevitable. but the earth is round. will the eu itself be harmed in the future by the destruction of its own production? should the european commission not consider reforming the wto and the eu's external trade policy?
working in the european parliament, i had the opportunity to visit the countries of the former yugoslavia and albania and to see for myself how valuable a european perspective is to them. the european reconstruction agency has played and continues to play an important role in stabilising the situation in the region and in supporting reforms. the gradual reduction of the agency's activities should take into account the economic and political implications of its closure and the use made of the professional experience and knowledge of its staff. the next few years will be decisive for the western balkan countries on their way to the eu, and some of the solutions to the kosovo problem may, unfortunately, potentially shake the region once again, and not only it. i support the proposals to strengthen parliamentary control at this stage of the agency's activities. the commission report should clarify whether the commission delegations and offices taking over the tasks of closure of the agency will be able to adequately compensate for its closure.
on their way to the women's basketball world cup, lithuanian basketball players accidentally ended up in french guiana, from which the team tried unsuccessfully to leave for almost four days. brazil refused entry to persons not vaccinated against yellow fever. after a brief stint and receiving verbal assurances from the brazilian ministry of health that everything would be fine, the lithuanian national team arrived in brazil by passenger plane. but the immigration officials brutally forced the lithuanians back on the plane and sent them back to kajaani. this was the treatment of the lithuanian national basketball team. at the same time, other vaccinated europeans were allowed into belen. brazilian officials have indicated that if this had happened to the german basketball players, there would be no problem. for some reason, there was a double standard, as if lithuania was not a member of the european union. would it not be appropriate to spend more money on information about the new eu countries, not only within the eu but also outside it?
can a mouse scare an elephant? it turns out that they do, as evidenced by the recent crisis in russian-georgian relations. the european union has a choice of how to respond to what is happening in its neighbourhood: make a statement and that's it, or take an active part in the peaceful settlement of this conflict. i welcome the participation of the belgian foreign minister, karel de gucht, in the transfer of russian military personnel to russia, as well as the statement made on behalf of the eu. but it's small. i believe that while russia does not rule out military action in resolving the conflict with georgia, the european union must make greater efforts to stop the deportation of georgians from russia immediately, to stop drawing up lists of pupils with georgian names in moscow schools, because all this reminds us of the policy pursued by nazi germany to deport citizens of jewish nationality. during the soviet occupation, my parents were deported from lithuania to siberia in cattle cars, but now the means of transportation has changed - georgians are being deported from moscow in cargo planes. there should be no room for such actions and policies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament always responds appropriately to human rights violations. i have spoken from this platform on more than one occasion. it's true, i was talking about human rights violations in the central asian republics. but we rarely talk about human rights, their protection and their violation in the community. we may think that we do not have these problems or that they are not very important. let me give you an example from my life. the following gross human rights violations were recorded in 2005: disregard for the right to privacy, in particular the interception of private telephone conversations or the publication of pre-trial investigation material; political interference in the work of law enforcement and the judiciary; the lack of independence of the pre-trial investigation and the prosecution; violations of the right to a fair trial; inhuman and cruel treatment of police officers; discrimination, racism, trafficking in women, etc. mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, you may think i'm talking about the central asian republics again. no, unfortunately, this is happening in my country lithuania. this is the opinion of the lithuanian human rights monitoring institute, and the president of the republic himself acknowledges this. the press reports that the democratization process has stalled in the 10 new member states. i agree with that because there's no pressure that was in the preparation process for the arrest. so i believe that the new agency we're setting up can help us move forward. but not with your powers. its powers must be significantly strengthened to make it an effective instrument for monitoring and safeguarding citizens' rights. it is our duty to ensure democracy and human rights. that's what the people of the community have chosen us to do. (applause) i would like to thank you.
at the end of the 19th century, the future european fascism was born in russia. the cry was then short and clear: "kill the jews! save russia from the russians!" more than a century later, russia's political culture would be defined by a modified hate slogan: "kill the georgians! save russia!" and so on. the words are being used by the russian president, the foreign and defense ministers, the state duma. in particular, they are persecuted by lower-level officials and by fascist hooligan gangs. this is not news, for the killing of darker-skinned individuals on the streets of russia has become routine. the european union should raise its own slogan: 'save russia! stop the russian nazism!" it is proposed that representatives of the russian authorities and democratic forces be invited to discuss, in the context of a sympathetic conference on our common legal space, how the european union can help russia to avoid the scourge of xenophobia that is spreading today.
mr president, last week the informal eu summit in lahti, under the finnish presidency, marked a very important step in eu-russia relations. after a long time the eu was able to speak with one voice and what is especially important is that the eu was united in speaking about eu energy policy. as the need for an increased energy supply and increased energy security are of common interest to the union, i would like to stress that some projects in the baltic sea region ignore the interests of a number of member states in terms of security of energy supply, particularly the north european gas pipeline project, which in 2000 was granted trans-european energy network status. i suggest that we call on the countries already involved in the project, namely germany and russia, to invite the neighbouring countries, eu member states, to join the network and provide them with an opportunity of real partnership.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, carlos coelho, who, speaking at our meeting today, mentioned that sis ii is very useful for the new eu member states, whose accession to the schengen area was planned for autumn 2007. i would like to note that my country lithuania has been preparing very seriously for membership of the schengen area, as evidenced by the recent verification of lithuania's readiness to join the schengen area by experts from the european commission. the free movement of people, which can be ensured by the expansion of the schengen area, is one of the fundamental freedoms on which the european union as a whole is based. unfortunately, we have recently heard that the schengen expansion will be postponed, and this delay is due to technical reasons - the fact that it will not be possible to complete in time the preparatory work for the second generation of the schengen information system sis ii. while fully endorsing the points made by the rapporteur, i would like to point out that we should encourage the commission to provide parliament with comprehensive and transparent information and findings of studies on the implementation of the sis ii master plan, including information on the reasons for the delays in its implementation. we should also call on the commission and the council to take measures to ensure that the original dates for the accession of new eu member states to the schengen area are respected. however, if any other option is chosen, the commission should be invited to provide a detailed impact assessment identifying the resources needed to cover the financial and organisational costs of the sis ii and the responsibility for these costs.
the document in question shall be concise and clear in technical terms. we are talking about accounting standards, but in economic and political terms, as we emphasise in our draft resolution, this is a very important and complex issue, since we are basically talking about the role of the european union in the global financial market. principled international financial reporting standards are an integral part of our european union financial model, which is being adopted by third countries. the european commission must therefore promote the application of these standards in third countries, promote their quality, their european character, and, so to speak, create an image of the european financial market, rather than merely proposing technical solutions. it should be borne in mind that the united states also has a well-functioning system of accounting standards. whether we like it or not, international accounting standards and american accounting standards are competing in the european union marketplace, that is, we, the legislators, are competing. i think the european parliament is ready for competition, but it is too expensive to apply double standards to business and it creates confusion in emerging markets. they don't know what standards to set. this means that the european commission should look for ways to harmonise standards or to promote harmonisation of those standards at the level of the relevant institutions. it should be remembered that we are not just talking about a technical problem, but about the development of the global financial market, and the compatibility of standards requires two main things: clear guidelines on how to implement this compatibility and a definition of compatibility. some people feel that informal negotiation is more effective and does not require prior announcement of their position. there are many methods and tactics to be used in negotiations, but what i do not think the european parliament could agree with is that decisions to be taken in the context of harmonising accounting standards would undermine the fundamental principles of ifrs and their high quality and reputation. it would certainly not be acceptable for the european parliament to take decisions without consulting parliament and financial market participants.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. the budget is necessary to implement projects that are important and beneficial to the community and its citizens. one of them is the globalisation fund, which is worth 500 million euros. i propose that the funds be allocated to the budgetary reserve for the following year in the committee on employment and social affairs. we'll vote on that in december. but once again, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention, and in particular that of the commission, to the rules governing the use of the funds. will the money really reach the individual who is out of work? the funds shall not be laundered. this has often been the case with donor support for restructuring companies. i see a lot of risk in the commission's provisions that the money might not reach the people it's intended for. we voted against that risk in the economic committee. unless the rules are substantially improved, they cannot be accepted. i therefore call on you to take a principled position and to demand that the commission guarantee a transparent and efficient use of funds.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank mr ebner very much. we are in the process of applying it now. the european strategic plan will, however, see other important steps. we are planning to launch a european emergency telephone line for children in need shortly, which will have three common numbers throughout europe 116 followed by a national number for each country, and will help children who are abducted, lost or in difficulty. i am also considering, with the major international credit card companies, the possibility of disconnecting the credit cards of those who access pedophile websites to purchase child pornography. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, of course no one imagines that the use of the internet, which is one of the most extraordinary means of communication connecting young people and very young people from all over the world, will be restricted. however, it is clear that we must be concerned about preventing and punishing criminals who use the internet to get in closer contact with young people, who must of course be protected. it is not by limiting the use of the internet, but by strengthening prevention and control, that we can help children to use the internet in a completely safe way.
member of the commission. the commission remains deeply concerned by the human rights situation in iran and views the practice of execution by lapidation as particularly abhorrent. it is fully aware of the reports by amnesty international covering sentences of stoning, referred to by the honourable members. stoning is a cruel, inhuman and degrading form of punishment, which the commission finds totally unacceptable. the eu has repeatedly called on iran progressively to restrict the use of the death penalty and insisted that it be carried out according to un minimum standards, including the requirement that capital punishment may be imposed only for the most serious crimes. in december 2002, the eu started a human rights dialogue with the iranian authorities, with the participation of civil society representatives. one of the practical results at the time was confirmation by the iranian side of a moratorium on stoning. regrettably that dialogue has not taken place since the summer of 2004 because of the reluctance of the iranian authorities. however, tentative dates for a new round of human rights discussions have been fixed for mid-december.
member of the commission. we talk to all elements of civil society in iran. it is difficult for the honourable member on the one hand to ask us to make representations; to make a case to the iranian authorities; to make a stand for human rights and against this abhorrent practice; and, at the same time, to criticise us for engaging in a dialogue. if you do not have a dialogue, then it is harder, if not impossible, to communicate your view. in my view, the european approach is right. in close collaboration with eu embassies in tehran, the commission monitors the situation on the ground very closely, in particular as far as the death penalty is concerned. whenever it learns of a death sentence passed on juveniles or on women at risk of stoning, the eu undertakes immediate démarches with the judiciary and other competent authorities. so the eu is not relying on dialogue alone. it makes its views very directly and clearly known whenever such a case arises, and will continue to do so.
member of the commission. the commission follows up human rights cases through several channels. it does not simply rely on the dialogue, the last session of which was held in june 2004, and another session of which is due to take place shortly. we make diplomatic representations through a variety of different channels, in addition to the set-piece dialogue that is in place, and we shall continue to do so.
member of the commission. we follow individual cases. we know of a number of women who are at risk of execution by stoning. our views are very well known and frequently expressed; nobody is in any doubt at all about our opposition. in particular cases, individual by individual, you can be assured that all possible means will be used to express our view and that maximum pressure will be exercised.
member of the commission. i am grateful to the honourable member for asking the question. this gives me the opportunity to give an answer which i know is very important to parliament, because parliament has given much prominence to the topic of international roaming in recent years. as you know, for citizens there are two problems: first, the high prices they have to pay for crossing the borders; and then the problem of inadvertent roaming on a foreign network when they have not yet crossed the border but are living in a border area. in competitive markets one expects to see convergence of prices and costs, but when it comes to roaming there has been for many years now no evidence of a real relationship between prices and underlying costs. this point was also made very clearly in the impact assessment which accompanied the regulation which i have put on the table. the question is very simple. why should a french customer who just crosses the border to italy and makes a local call be charged from 50 cents to over eur 1 per minute, when an italian customer who is doing exactly the same will be charged between 10 and 13 cents per minute? all right, there are some additional costs if you take your phone into a neighbouring country, but there is very little justification for such high differences in price. in every other area of telecoms – fixed and broadband – european consumers are seeing significant improvements in price, choice and quality; only for international roaming has this not been the case. there are millions of citizens who have been very frustrated at these high prices for many years. we estimate that there are roughly 99 million european citizens living in regions located within 50 km of the borders and 11 million citizens within 5 km of the borders. they are those most affected by the extraordinarily high roaming prices. the regulation i have proposed, which is under discussion in parliament and the council, proposes substantial reductions in the roaming charges for all europeans, consumers and business travellers. it is clear that when that is put in place, those living and roaming in internal border regions will be among the biggest beneficiaries of the regulation. from a technical point of view, because of the nature of mobile networks, consumers who live in such areas will have to pay some roaming charges, but there will be guarantees, if the regulation is passed, that the prices will be far more reasonable than they are today. there is also the question of inadvertent roaming, which is a possibility wherever mobile services are available and national borders exist. that is also why it is very important for those people that the charges will be closer to the cost. i very often criticise the operators for charging high prices. on the other hand, i must also say that when operators make the right moves in the right direction, i have to give credit where it is due. i am pleased to note, for example, that operators in ireland and the united kingdom have started to offer all-island rates. that means, for instance, that citizens in ireland and in northern ireland now pay only one single rate, irrespective of where they are. that is a good example of best practice. i would like to see such initiatives encouraged and followed in other areas across europe.
member of the commission. unfortunately the national regulators do not have explicit powers to prevent or reduce the possibility of inadvertent roaming. as the international roaming problem has shown, we do not yet have an internal market in this area. that is why we have to follow this very closely in order to find good examples and underline them. in ireland, for instance, comreg and ofcom have agreed to set up a joint working group to investigate the extent of the problem of inadvertent roaming by mobile users and we welcome and encourage that approach. but it is not yet possible to address the problem on a wider scale through the normal regulatory process.
member of the commission. i was asked specifically by parliament, among others, to address the question of international roaming charges for mobile phones. at the time i examined this matter, there was no specific demand for action on data services, such as sms, and when the national regulatory authorities called on the commission to do something, they were only concerned about the high level of international roaming charges for voice telephony. i know from the many discussions i have held, particularly with members of parliament and with citizens, that there is also a problem with data. parliament, which is examining the regulation, now has the opportunity to go a step further than the commission did. let me also appeal to businesses, since industry is always complaining that we intervene in price regulation. operators now have a chance to show that they themselves are capable of bringing prices down, so that the regulators or politicians do not need to intervene.
commissioner, you have given convincing examples of the absurd situation as regards roaming prices in different countries, but you did not mention the new member states of the eu, where the situation is even worse. will the commission pay special attention to the new member states of the european union with a view to eliminating the very big differences in general mobile telephone and roaming charges?
member of the commission. mr posselt, the action which the commission and the council can take - and are taking - in respect of member states which do not comply with any of the provisions of the treaty, in the field of budgetary discipline, for example, as is the case with hungary and other member states, should not be confused with the obligation on member states to prepare for the adoption of the single currency. the preparations for the single currency are related to budgetary discipline, but also to the stability of exchange rates and to the evolution of interest rates, which is something that markets decide on in the light of the economic situation in the member states. they also concern legal reforms to bring the statute of the central bank of the respective member country into line with the rules laid down in the treaty on the european system of central banks, and they also concern the evolution of inflation. the factors for meeting the criteria for adopting the single currency therefore depend partly on political decisions to be taken directly by the governments or parliaments of the member states and partly on factors which are not always within their control. so while it may theoretically be possible in the future to apply infringement procedures to those states which are not preparing, at present we do not consider it necessary or even desirable.
commissioner, if such a country is rich and manages its economy in an orderly way, as sweden is not willing to adopt the euro, then the question arises as to whether the euro area project has any prospects at all. we know that many of the current euro area members do not meet one or more of the maastricht criteria. lithuania did not meet the inflation criterion of 0,07%. what can the future of the euro area look like? the euro is projected to be extinct in 15 years. what measures should be taken?
member of the commission. madam member, i am not at all unaware of the existence of the referendum that took place in sweden in 2003. i know the result perfectly well. unfortunately, it was a negative result, but the honourable member is aware, as is every member of this house, that the treaty must be complied with by all member states and that the existence of a referendum creates obvious political difficulties in complying with the treaty, but does not remove the obligations which are included in it.
member of the commission. mr paleckis, when signing the treaty of accession, the ten member states which joined the union in may 2004 agreed to adopt the euro when they fulfilled the necessary conditions. these countries, as well as sweden, are expected to implement policies to ensure that these conditions are met. however, as i said in the previous answer, the accession treaty does not set any deadline for putting this into practice. many of the new member states have adopted targets for the dates and strategies for adopting the euro, thus crystallising their political commitment to firm convergence policies. the responsibility for implementing such policies lies with the member states, for whom the implementation of stability policies contributes to a broader objective than merely meeting the convergence criteria with a view to adopting the single currency. those policies are also necessary to ensure high and sustained growth and financial stability in the medium term. although the commission supports the efforts of member states with a derogation to join the euro area, it is not possible to predict the rate at which the euro area will be enlarged. the commission considers that achieving a high degree of sustainable convergence, in accordance with the treaty, is a necessary condition for the adoption of the euro to be a success, both for the current and future members of the area.
i thank the commissioner for his comprehensive answer. you have recently been to lithuania, which had an unhappy experience in its attempt to introduce the euro because its inflation was 0.07% above the target level. in your opinion, would it be better for lithuania in future to think about joining the euro alone or in the company of the two other baltic states – latvia and estonia?
member of the commission. unfortunately, mr president, when lithuania, at the same time as slovenia, asked the commission and the european central bank in the first half of this year to give an opinion on the extent to which the criteria laid down in the treaty for membership of monetary union were met, the commission's reply, which was subsequently endorsed by the council, was negative in the case of lithuania and positive in that of slovenia. and it was negative in the case of lithuania because, at that time, lithuania did not meet the inflation criterion. you have spoken of the difference which existed at a given moment between the average inflation of lithuania over the last twelve months and the reference value, calculated in accordance with the maastricht treaty protocol, for the maximum inflation which is permissible for acceptance into the euro area as a new member. and, at that time, it is true that the difference was very small, it was less than 0.1%. unfortunately, a few months later, today, with the latest available data, which is what eurostat has published for inflation in september, lithuania's average inflation over the last 12 months is separated from the reference value by 0.7 points; the difference has increased sevenfold in these few months. as i said to the lithuanian authorities during my recent visit to that country, the important thing is not to discuss the small difference in the past; in my view, it is not even important to discuss the date or conditions of entry in the first place. the important thing at this stage for lithuania, and for other member states wishing to join the euro as soon as possible, is to decide which economic policy strategy and which measures, included in a coherent economic policy strategy, must be adopted and implemented in order to meet the treaty criteria. in view of this divergent trend in lithuanian average inflation from the maximum reference value, which is currently 2.8%, i urged the lithuanian authorities to define this strategy and again offered the european commission's cooperation in working together with the authorities of that member state to find the best and most effective strategy to bring inflation under control without jeopardising economic growth, which is excellent in lithuania, and the excellent results which, from many points of view, the lithuanian economy has been producing. i believe that this is the attitude not only of the european commission but also of all the member states, which want to see a day, as soon as possible, when lithuania fulfils the conditions and is a new member of the euro area, as slovenia will be on 1 january next. if lithuania is joined by other member states, the other baltic states, all the better. but we cannot change the conditions for assessing whether or not the criteria of the treaty are met, however much we may wish to assess whether those criteria are met in a positive way.
commissioner, you mentioned that slovenia will be joining the eurozone on 1 january 2007, malta and cyprus in 2008, and slovakia in 2009. during your recent visit to lithuania, did you propose a clear date when lithuania might join the eurozone? and have you already received an action plan from the government, including the fight against corruption?
for the alde group i congratulate the rapporteur, mr gröner, on the common position reached. it is good to know that the new programme will be available to young people from the european union's neighbouring countries - russia, belarus, ukraine and the north caucasus - from next year. membership of the european union affects many things in the lives of its members. youth, its present and future, its challenges and problems are no exception. these 75 million young people living in the european union have been successful in many ways. freedom of movement, opportunities for learning and working in different eu countries, foreign language skills, intercultural exchanges, etc. however, all these advantages are also combined with challenges and challenges that today's ageing europe faces and must address. i have not mentioned the problem of a rapidly ageing europe for the sake of it, but as a sign of the need to clearly understand and realise the importance of young people by actively involving them in the european union's policy and development processes. the implementation of the lisbon objectives is highlighted as a key factor for young people, but it must not be forgotten that young people themselves have a major role to play in the implementation of these objectives. investing in young people is one of the cornerstones of achieving faster growth in europe's development and employment. it is of course essential that the member states themselves respond appropriately to the recommendations of the council of europe and take concrete action. we know of many good examples of programmes, but few have been fully implemented. this requires a closer dialogue and cooperation between young people and politicians at both national and european level. youth should be viewed as a source of strength, not a burden. our aim is to build young people's confidence in the declared objectives of the european institutions and the member states, so that they do not have to doubt the widely declared understanding of the importance of young people to the economic growth, development and stability of the european union.
for the alde group first of all, i want to thank dr. pack for his excellent presentation. lifelong learning is an integral part of a modern and developing society, as the basis of a country's well-being is the acquired capacity of its people: education, experience and skills. in many cases, the level of literacy and education determines a person's health, well-being and income, and increases his or her opportunities to participate in the social, political and cultural life of the society. in lithuania, as in the rest of the european union, adult education and training and continuous upskilling of workers have recently become more relevant, although this has not yet become the norm. unfortunately, as of 2004, lithuania lags far behind the eu average, with 28% of people aged 24-65 having completed education in the last year in lithuania and 42% in the european union. many of our citizens recognise that the main motivations for learning are the ever-increasing demands of the labour market, greater opportunities for self-improvement and self-expression, but even half of the citizens give up learning because of their age, thinking it is too late. lithuania has a strange, not always favorable, attitude towards older people who seek knowledge. in some cases, discrimination is also experienced against certain groups in society. it is true that the principle has already been adopted that only a competent employee can achieve good results, lay the foundations for the competitiveness of the company and, most importantly, personally feel a sense of self-worth and self-confidence. however, the focus on training is on public institutions rather than private employers. and this is a big problem, because almost 70 percent of the workforce is in private companies. the constantly evolving technology and competitive challenges require skilled workers, and this process must be continuous. the question of funding therefore becomes particularly important. i believe that this programme, together with the support of the european union's structural funds, will help to reduce the existing disparities between the different member states and to make the lifelong learning strategy a reality.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to emphasise once again that the programme under consideration provides citizens with better access to the necessary continuing training and enables them to become full participants in a knowledge-based society. i believe that the original version of the document proposed by the european commission, to which we have returned, will facilitate the implementation of a single programme, bringing together all the initiatives currently in place in the field of education. a single system would provide clarity and, most importantly, avoid duplication of some of the sub-programmes' functions. the countries eligible for the lifelong learning programme have clearly benefited from this european union initiative. for example, the names of the erasmus, leonardo da vinci or jean monnet sub-programmes are already familiar to lithuanians, which means that the european union's initiatives in the field of education are being implemented quite effectively. i hope you will agree with me that a lifelong learning programme is vital both for competitiveness and for promoting entrepreneurship and for forming a common sense of european citizenship, based on the values of the european union understanding and respect for human rights and democracy.
i am glad that europe has finally joined forces and shown solidarity and solidarity with russia in the energy and democracy dialogue. the words that energy is an integral part of foreign policy have become flesh. as regards energy security and transparency, the issue of the oil pipeline 'družba' was mentioned as more of a political than a technical accident when russia cut off oil supplies to the pipeline. moscow expressed its dissatisfaction that the lithuanian company mažeikių nafta was sold not to russia but to the polish company pkn orlen. ladies and gentlemen, it is a great achievement that europe has made clear at the meeting with russia that the rules must be followed when dealing with energy problems. i cannot help but admire the change in position in finland, france and especially germany. i hope this is the end of the politics of "shroderianism". the current position of politicians such as j.m. barroso and a. merkel offers hope for a united europe with a common energy policy and a common future.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, recent developments in the geographical and political environment of moldova have affected the basic settlement of the transnistrian conflict. the eu's role in the peace process, the eu's role in the peace process and the eu's role in the peace process, together with the eu's role in the peace process, are all important elements of the eu's policy towards moldova. the transnistrian authorities have responded to this by holding a referendum on 17 september, which according to the transnistrian authorities resulted in overwhelming popular support for independence and joining russia. the international community, including the european union, did not recognise this or previous referendums in transnistria. this was already clearly demonstrated in the presidency statement on behalf of the eu on 18 september, as well as in the eu's statements in the committee of ministers of the council of europe in september and in the osce framework in july. in a statement, the european union condemned the referendum as contrary to the territorial integrity and internationally recognised sovereignty of moldova. the eu also expressed its doubts that the result of the transnistrian referendum did not reflect the real will of the people. the european union has also discussed the referendum on several occasions with russia. although russia's public statements have given rise to different interpretations, russia has assured the union that it respects moldova's territorial integrity and has denied supporting the holding of the referendum. the eu border monitoring mission eubam is an example of the best way in which the union can provide concrete support both to the transnistrian conflict settlement process and to the development of border control between moldova and ukraine towards european standards in general. the transfer of know-how to the border authorities of moldova and ukraine has been welcomed by both countries. in the context of efforts to resolve the conflict, eubam has helped to channel the foreign trade of transnistrian companies into activities under the authority of the moldovan authorities, which in turn contributes to the national unity of moldova. the decision by ukraine to implement the memorandum of understanding on customs cooperation between ukraine and moldova in march has contributed to strengthening eubam's operational capabilities. the key to the transnistrian peace process is the parties themselves. the european union calls on the parties to the peace process to return to the negotiating table. the union's capacity to act effectively in the peace process will be further enhanced by the eusr's involvement in the settlement of the transnistrian conflict in accordance with the agreed eu policy objectives and in close coordination with the osce. the eu-moldova european neighbourhood policy action programme is the instrument that enables the eu to provide targeted, long-term support to moldova. the key to the transnistrian conflict may ultimately lie in moldova's development into a politically and economically stable state. the eu has also been active in the field of human rights, including the fight against corruption and the fight against organised crime. the eu has also been active in the field of human rights since the early 1990s. the eu is committed to supporting moldova in these efforts. i'm going to move on to another topic of our conversation. it should be noted that the european union is very concerned about the strained relations between russia and georgia. this crisis also affects the situation in the georgian separatist conflict areas of south ossetia and abkhazia. president putin warned at the informal lahti summit last friday that the situation could escalate to bloodshed accusing georgia of preparing for war. in its conclusions of 17 october, the eu called on both russia and georgia to do all they could to improve their bilateral relations and to focus their efforts on finding a peaceful solution to the conflicts. the eu also called on the parties to fully respect previous agreements. the situation in south ossetia is tense at the moment. the region is holding a referendum on 12 november to reaffirm its independence. the european union does not recognise the referendum, just as it did not recognise the transnistrian independence referendum. the referendum may further increase tensions in the region. the european union and the international community are supporting the settlement of the georgian conflict in a number of ways. the eu commission has an important role in the jcc through its observer status in the south ossetian settlement mechanisms. georgia has in many contexts expressed its wish to further strengthen the role of the union. it also called for the jcc to be reformed to include the eu and the us in the transnistrian peace process, in line with the 5+2 model. since then, georgia has insisted on the resumption of peace negotiations on a bilateral basis between georgia and south ossetia. georgia also calls for the replacement of the cis's - practically all russian - peacekeepers by an international operation in both south ossetia and abkhazia, with particular emphasis on the role of police operations. the parliament and the government of georgia consider that the troops are not fulfilling their mandate and their continued operation is therefore questionable. there is a debate within the union about strengthening the eu's role, but georgia may have unrealistic expectations from the union. the eu urges the georgian leadership to be patient: too hasty decisions on the peace processes in south ossetia and abkhazia must be avoided, as they could jeopardise the presence of the un and the osce in the region. this would create a vacuum in the regions. georgia should commit to refraining from the use of force. the eu member states and the commission made a major contribution to the donor conference on reconstruction in south ossetia held in brussels in june. it was organized on the basis of a needs assessment prepared by the office. the funds raised at the conference will be used to launch a major international economic reconstruction programme in south ossetia in the autumn. russia has a significant role to play in both south ossetia and abkhazia. russia's support is needed to achieve results in the peace process. however, the latest spy scandal has strained already bad relations between georgia and russia to the extreme. the eu has delivered strong messages to the leaders of the countries on several occasions - most recently to president putin in lahore - on the importance of normalising relations, and has also provided good services to the parties to rebuild the dialogue. the eu will hold internal discussions at the end of october on the development of the union's role in resolving the conflict in georgia. the eusr shall play an important role in maintaining the political dialogue between the eu and georgia. he can also help re-establish relations between georgia and russia. the eu troika, which visited tbilisi on 2 october, also reaffirmed the eu's readiness to support georgia in resolving its conflicts through the european neighbourhood policy. the eu-georgia joint enp action plan has just been finalised and will be formally adopted at the eu-georgia cooperation council in brussels on 14 november. the enp action plan also includes a separate section on conflict resolution in georgia.
member of the commission. mr president, since our last debate there have been substantial developments, to which president-in-office lehtomäki has just referred. i visited south caucasus in early october as a member of the troika, when the enp action plans with all three countries were finalised. they will now be officially signed and adopted in november. i think that this is a basis for strong operational cooperation. before i talk about eu support, i think it is important that we also recall the impact of our relations with russia. during recent months, we have seen gas price increases for moldova, import bans on moldovan and georgian wines and water, the de facto support given to transnistria in the referendum, and the strong reaction to georgia’s expulsion of russian military officers. these issues were addressed with president putin in lahti and i personally raised some of these issues with foreign minister lavrov only a few days ago in moscow. the forthcoming foreign ministers’ permanent partnership council on 3 november and the eu-russia summit in helsinki on 24 november will enable further discussions to be held on these issues. let me also mention that the osce played a very helpful role in refusing to observe and recognise the referendum in transnistria and also in returning the russian officers from georgia to russia. i shall now say a few words specifically about moldova and transnistria, and then on georgia. i would also like to highlight the very successful eu border assistance mission, eubam, which has played a very important role in introducing a new customs regime between moldova and ukraine. this programme was allocated eur 20 million for two years and over 70 customs officials and border guards were seconded from our member states. all major transnistrian companies have now registered in chisinau and are working under this new regime. combating customs fraud will thus crucially cut the illicit revenue currently enjoyed by the transnistrian leadership. while we are happy that high-level talks between russia and moldova have recently resumed, we have been concerned about russia’s support for the transnistrian leadership. in a recent statement, minister lavrov called for ‘political recognition of the results’ of the referendum in transnistria, which neither the european union nor the osce recognised. i think this could complicate the task of finding a solution to this conflict. we are also worried about the insistence by transnistria and russia on the need for a so-called transit protocol between moldova and transnistria that would recognise the latter as an independent international economic actor. this issue is the stumbling block in the settlement talks which resumed after a silence of more than six months, albeit not in the full 5+2 format, but with only mediators, with each of the two sides separately, in other words 5+1. this approach is unacceptable, as we have made clear to russia on several occasions. more than that, developments on the ground, with all major transnistrian companies now working legally with chisinau, show that such an approach is increasingly out of touch with reality. we were also worried that the new ukrainian government would change track on this issue. i was very pleased when prime minister yanukovich assured me of the ongoing support of the ukrainian government. we will continue to stress the importance of ukrainian cooperation at the forthcoming summit in helsinki in a few days’ time. some have pointed to the ongoing discussion on railway issues between moldova and ukraine as further proof that ukraine might abandon its earlier position. the facts, however, do not bear this out. we therefore strongly encourage both sides to find a mutually advantageous solution to this situation as soon as possible. our presence on the ground through the eu border assistance mission provides us with an excellent instrument for following the situation and giving advice and assistance to both sides. let me add that under the new enp instrument, moldova will see a substantial increase in our funding. it will also receive a grant under the macro-financial assistance programme to help it address the shocks caused by increased energy prices and the russian ban on moldovan wines. we are highly concerned about the crisis in relations between georgia and russia, especially the continuing tensions between the two countries. we are particularly worried by the expulsion of large numbers of georgians from russian territory, which appears in direct contradiction to russia’s commitments under the european convention on human rights and to the 1975 helsinki final act. i also raised this issue recently with mr lavrov. georgia also bears its share of responsibility. during our recent visit to georgia in the troika mission, i urged president saakashvili to display moderation and encouraged him to rebuild trust. let me say a final word on south ossetia. i think it is disappointing that the recent meeting of the joint control commission for south ossetia was inconclusive. we understand georgia’s wish to renew and review the joint control commission’s composition, but existing peace mechanisms should be fully utilised until new ones are in place and the recent needs assessment study and the june 2006 international donors’ conference show that there is scope for a constructive dialogue. we are pleased that this rehabilitation programme is continuing despite the crisis. we have made a significant financial contribution to assist a peaceful settlement, including a eur 9.5 million economic rehabilitation programme in south ossetia. funds for rehabilitation have also been earmarked under the new ec financial assistance programme for the period from 2007 to 2010. i think the european union as a whole has a very important role in supporting any peace settlement. but the most immediate need is to get relations between russia and georgia back on a normal track, on a diplomatic track. we will certainly continue our efforts to achieve that objective.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, tomorrow we shall be voting on the resolution on the moldovan region of transnistria. we know that moldova is the poorest country in europe. in september a so-called ‘referendum’ took place in the moldovan region of transnistria, aiming at the region’s possible unification with the russian federation. this referendum and its outcome were not accepted by the international community and the conflict between the separatist authority of transnistria and the central government of moldova has largely contributed to the instability of the whole country and its economic and social development. earlier this year we also witnessed the failure of negotiations concerning the status of transnistria in the 5+2 format as the transnistrian authorities withdrew from these negotiations. we are also aware of the fact that the so-called russian peacekeepers are still in transnistria. in this context, we, the european parliament, should denounce the so-called referendum in the transnistrian region, which contradicts the internationally recognised sovereignty and territorial integrity of moldova and can be seen as provocation, which increases the existing tensions and jeopardises the chances for a peaceful settlement of the problem. we should also call on russia to discontinue its support for the transnistrian regime, which threatens moldova’s territorial integrity, and to fulfil the osce summit decision of 1999 to withdraw its troops and arms from the territory of moldova. we especially regret the lack of significant progress in the eu talks on visa facilitation and the readmission agreement with moldova. the council and the commission should speed up the procedure, leading to the conclusion of a visa facilitation agreement with moldova and ensure its implementation, as the current situation is unfair and discriminatory when transnistrian citizens holding russian passports are benefiting from the possibility to travel to the eu more easily than moldovans.
mr president, in 1996 i was a member of the lithuanian delegation to the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe when russia made a solemn commitment to withdraw its troops from moldova in 1997. therefore, 2007 offers us an opportunity to celebrate the ten-year anniversary of that unfulfilled european commitment by russia – one of many, of course. that could be a good time to write and publish a big book of russia’s unfulfilled international commitments. that is my first proposal to this house as it strives to obtain new commitments. russia’s policies in partitioning its smaller neighbours have caused loss and suffering to the people and several nations are still asking us to help. can we continue to utter empty mantras in the style of the united nations, while washing our hands of the hordes of refugees expelled from abkhazia by invading russians? it is worth noting here the small note in security council resolution no 1666 of 31 march 2006, on the eventual changes in the mandate of the cis peacekeeping force in georgia. in reality, the force is russian and has little to do with peacekeeping, but is helping in the annexation of a population given en masse the passports of one foreign country before the land is subsequently annexed. if you really want peace in that part of europe, we need real, possibly european, peacekeepers in south ossetia and abkhazia. the alternative should be to rename these current peacekeepers ‘criminality keepers’. that is my second proposal to parliament: to make a choice between real peacekeepers and official ‘criminality keepers’.
for the alde group this year, the european union reviewed the european union's sustainable development strategy adopted in 2001, supplemented by the external dimension in barcelona in 2002. the european union's policy of development cooperation includes the fight against poverty and the gradual integration of developing countries into the world economy. how do we achieve these goals? we want economic growth in the developing world, we want to protect the environment, we want to reduce the greenhouse effect, and what do we do? toxic pollution in côte d'ivoire has caused 85,000 illnesses and eight deaths. the toxic substances were removed by tanker from amsterdam by the dutch company 'tarifuga beheer bv'. amsterdam was aware of the toxic substances, but the cost of disposing of them in europe made it cheaper to use the ivory coast. many african countries do not have environmental protection legislation on hazardous waste. used computers are being hoarded in nigeria, radioactive waste is being buried in somalia, chlorine is being dumped in cameroon. despite the fact that the eu has adopted regulations banning waste exports in 1994 and 1997. in 2002, the european parliament adopted the directive 'environmental protection: combating crime, criminal offences and penalties' at its first reading. but that was the end of the first reading. it is necessary to resume the examination of the directive without delay. the european commission and the netherlands must investigate the ivory coast case, find the culprits, remedy the consequences and compensate the victims. without serious measures, the eu's development cooperation policy to support developing countries in their sustainable development will be difficult to implement. and the moral face of the eu will look bad.
president of the council. the commission has already taken a number of decisions. regulation (ec) no 2320/2002 of the european parliament and of the council on common rules in the field of civil aviation security constitutes the current community legislative framework in the field of civil aviation security. the regulation, which was adopted in the wake of the september 11 terrorist attacks, has been in force since january 2003. in order to overcome the problems encountered in the implementation of that regulation, the commission submitted a proposal for a new regulation to replace it in september 2005. in march this year the council adopted an overview of the commission's proposal. the european parliament adopted its position at first reading in june, with 85 amendments. on the basis of this position, the council reached a political agreement on the proposal on 12 october. the adopted text will be formally adopted as a common position at a future council meeting and forwarded to the european parliament with a view to reaching a rapid agreement at the second reading. in view of the security problems experienced in the united kingdom in august this year, the council hopes that the institutions will reach agreement on the new regulation as soon as possible. in addition, the impact of the new security measures recently imposed by the commission and its committee on civil aviation security should be continuously reviewed.
president of the council. mr president, of course we can always improve our action in the fight against terrorism. of course, there have been many different measures, especially in recent years, but there is always a way to avoid them.
dear minister, many of us travel by air to work. there hasn't been a single case in the last year where the planes haven't been delayed by half an hour, an hour. it is often said that security measures are taken. could it be (and it seems to be) that bad work, badly organized work, is precisely this reason and motivation? whether it will be possible to verify that security requirements are actually applied after the adoption of this document.
president of the council. mr president, at the request of the irish government, the council amended the language rules in june 2005 and added irish to the list of official languages and working languages of the institutions of the european union. the council decided that the institutions would not be required to draft all provisions in irish and to publish them in that language in the official journal of the european union. so this decision is an exception. it shall be valid for five years and may be renewed. it was also decided that the derogation in question should not apply to regulations adopted by codecision. in accordance with this decision, that is to say, in accordance with the addition of irish to this list of working languages, all the necessary practical measures have been taken by the council to ensure proper implementation from 1 january 2007, the date on which the regulation enters into force.
president of the council. mr president, as i have said, irish has therefore been added to the list of official and working languages of the european union by the exception i have just mentioned. parliament will certainly also have the power to decide how it will implement this in practice. but when i say that all the necessary implementing measures have been taken in the council, that means a great many practical things, and i did not want to list in that first reply all that is happening there, but all that this decision requires.
i'd like to ask you, minister, about the future. the 21 official languages of the european union are undoubtedly a reflection of the diversity of our peoples, and this is very valuable. on the other hand, it's really expensive and it's getting more and more complicated. how does the council, as the presidency, see the future? will this circle be expanded? will any measures be taken to simplify these language procedures?
president of the council. mr president, the council agrees that trade can play a major role in the rapprochement between india and pakistan. in its conclusions of february 2004, the council reiterated its support for efforts to promote regional cooperation within the framework of the south asian association for regional cooperation (saarc), and in particular the agreement establishing a free trade area in south asia by 2006. the eu welcomes the recent conclusion of the south asian free trade agreement (safta), but understands that some south asian cooperation organisation (saco) members still have unresolved bilateral issues. the solution of these questions would enable the member states of the cooperation organisation to derive full benefit from the agreements to which they have acceded. in general, the eu continues to support all trade facilitation efforts in multilateral contexts, as they are an important means of strengthening trade and investment links between countries. the decision by the saarc council of ministers to grant the eu observer status provides an excellent opportunity to develop saarc-eu cooperation. eu-saarc cooperation was discussed at the 7th eu-india summit in helsinki on 13 october. the eu wants to develop its practical support for the south asian cooperation organisation. the commission has already drawn up a programme of economic cooperation with saarc. the programme covers trade facilitation, standards and cooperation between new businesses. the aim is to promote intra-regional trade by supporting the implementation of the south asian free trade agreement, which is hoped to provide a boost to improving political relations in the region. the programme is expected to be adopted by the saarc secretariat and the eu member states in the near future. the union encourages a comprehensive dialogue between india and pakistan and hopes for a favourable development of trade and other relations, which would contribute to the stability of the whole region. we have noted that many confidence-building measures have been taken recently between india and pakistan, which have enabled more free human contact, direct bus and train connections and visits by members of parliament and sports teams. the presidents of india and pakistan met in havana this september. the summit of 13 october was a general discussion on relations between india and pakistan.
president of the council. mr president, i was present for most of the summit, but i do not remember exactly how the kashmir situation was discussed. but i have been assured that this issue has also been ignored as part of this regional stability and regional situation.
i would like to ask, minister, in the light of the fact that a delegation from the european parliament is visiting kashmir next week at the invitation of the indian government. how do you think the major powers, and in particular the united states and russia, are contributing to the solution of the kashmir problem, and what more could the european union do in this context?
president of the council. mr president, the existing community acquis in this sector and the secondary legislation which supplements it require equal treatment of nationals of other member states with regard to the conditions of employment. this is a matter of control, which is the responsibility of the member states' own authorities. in accordance with the principles of the rule of law and good administration in the union, it is appropriate to expect and require that these supervisory authorities also act in accordance with the rules.
minister, i wanted to ask you if the establishment of these camps is not a reason to restrict the free movement of people? the introduction of the transitional period for the new member states has given the old ones the opportunity to do so. is the introduction of such a transitional period for romania and bulgaria not an incentive for illegal work?
for the alde group protectionist and economic nationalistic sentiments are particularly strong in some community countries. they restrict international trade and the free movement of capital and labour. protectionists are not only against competition from asian countries, but also against foreign competition in general. that's a short-sighted approach. we all know that competition is the engine of economic progress. the result is economic and social degradation. the blocking of the implementation of the posting of workers directive, the artificial creation of bureaucratic obstacles to its application are one of the manifestations of protectionism. this is not only self-defeating but damaging to the interests of the community as a whole and a serious violation of the fundamental rights of its citizens. first of all, the right to provide services and the freedom of establishment. the rights enshrined in the community treaty, the posting of workers directive are ignored by the member states. such conduct is particularly damaging to our community. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i will vote to remove the bureaucratic obstacles. to ensure that business development within the community is not hindered by national borders. so that people can choose where they want to work. they would not be economically exploited and socially discriminated against while working abroad.
dear prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, it's been sixteen years since lithuania regained its independence from the soviet union. at the same time, lithuania will not be returned the building of the lithuanian embassy in rome, known as villa lituania, which belonged to it until 1937. today, the russian flag flies over this building. in 1940, after lithuania was occupied and annexed by russia, the lithuanian ambassador stasys lozoraitis handed the italian government a note in which he emphasized the illegality of lithuania's incorporation into the soviet union and that the status of lithuanian diplomatic missions abroad did not change. nevertheless, soviet officials, with the participation of representatives of the italian foreign ministry and police, occupied villa lituania. after lithuania regained its independence, italy avoided responsibility and offered to negotiate with russia over the building. although the italian government has now changed its position, the situation has not changed. after all these years, is it time for italy to face up to its historical past?
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr garcía-margallo and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the interest shown in examining this first annual report from the commission on the euro area, the main purpose of which is to encourage dialogue and debate between our two institutions in order to identify priority actions to improve the functioning of the area as a whole. since i had the opportunity to present this report to the econ committee last july until today, the growth forecasts for the euro area for this year and the next two have improved significantly. last week i presented our autumn forecasts, which can be summed up by saying that all economic indicators are pointing in the right direction: upward economic growth - the highest in the euro area since the beginning of the decade - declining unemployment, stable inflation and a clear reduction in government deficits. the factors which have contributed to this positive picture include external factors, such as the sustained strength of the world economy, but also internal factors, which undermine the image of stagnation and paralysis that has often been given of european economies and, in particular, of the euro area economy. these internal factors include reforms in many countries in the region in recent years, budgetary consolidation efforts and the european economies' more efficient than many expected response to the sharp rise in oil prices. the existence of the euro area has also contributed significantly to this favourable situation, thanks to the good financing conditions for households and businesses, which the current level of interest rates provides us with, and thanks also to the protection that the euro has provided against the turbulence on the financial markets, as happened last spring. however, all these positive factors do not invalidate the main conclusions of the commission's report on the measures which should enable us to improve the functioning of the zone and with which the majority of members of parliament agree, as stated in mr garcía-margallo's report. i am referring to the need to deepen structural reforms, to consolidate the single market and to ensure a more effective and integrated external representation of the euro area than has been the case so far. these three priorities, set out in the report, will also be reflected in the annual economic report which i will be presenting to the commission on 22 december, and which this year in particular will focus on the functioning of economic and monetary union and, in particular, of the euro area in the light of eight years of accumulated experience. in examining these three priorities and in relation to economic reforms, i agree with the statement in the report on the importance of implementing the reforms committed by member states in their national reform plans within the lisbon strategy. once monetary policy is unified and budgetary policy is framed within the stability and growth pact, the economic policies of each national government must make the necessary adjustments in terms of productivity, competitiveness and the functioning of markets to ensure a high degree of convergence within the area. the commission will adopt in december next year, on the basis of the reports submitted by the member states, the report on the first year of implementation of the national reform plans. our report will contain an explicit assessment of the extent to which each member state has implemented these reforms and we will even, if we consider it necessary, issue recommendations for each country. we shall also include in the report an assessment of what we ourselves, the european institutions, have done in implementing the necessary reforms of the so-called community lisbon programme. we agree, as i said before, on the need to deepen the internal market, which, together with the single currency, is one of the two essential instruments to promote a more efficient allocation of resources and to offer greater opportunities for businesses and more choice for consumers. the integration of the financial system is also a top priority for the smooth functioning of economic and monetary union. in this sector, the roadmap is set out in the commission's white paper on financial services covering the period 2005-2010. as regards the external representation of the euro area, i note the convergence of views between the european parliament and the commission on the need for a coherent external representation. as i explained in one of my last speeches to the econ commission, the european union spoke with one voice in singapore - as mr garcía-margallo has just said. in october, after this meeting, we discussed this again both in the eurogroup and in ecofin and we reached some additional agreements which are moving in the right direction. the report by mr garcía-margallo also contains comments on monetary policy and on the application of the treaty criteria for the enlargement of the euro area. the european central bank is among the most transparent central banks in the world and this perception has been well appreciated by the markets, which appreciate the bank's communication policy. as regards the application of the inflation criterion to the enlargement of the euro area - we have discussed this in this house on many occasions in recent times - i refer to what has been said so far. finally, i do not know what doubts mr garcia-margallo has. i am fully in favour of dialogue with this house on the functioning of the euro area. the president of the econ commission knows this well, and i had the opportunity to discuss with her a few days ago how we can put it into practice.
for the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, economic and monetary union with a single currency is the highest stage of economic integration achieved by the european union. the euro area has been in existence for six years and its first enlargement has shown that the maastricht criteria, formulated more than a decade ago, no longer correspond to the realities of eu enlargement and global economic development. the euro area countries fail to implement the indicators that are important for the functioning of the euro area, in particular the requirement of price stability. the european commission (under the treaty establishing the european community) and the european central bank apply different price stability criteria for the euro area. according to the european central bank, price stability is below, but close to, 2 percent inflation. the european commission uses a methodology that calculates price stability in the euro area in terms of factors other than the inflation of euro area countries and cannot eliminate the random factors that affect inflation. i invite the commission to work with the european central bank to improve the concept and methodology for determining price stability in the euro area, in order to avoid misunderstandings in the process of euro area enlargement and in the implementation of the indicators within the euro area itself. i call on the euro area member states to implement in an orderly manner the criteria for membership of the euro area, which they have themselves adopted, with a view to deeper economic integration. i would also like to stress that structural reforms, in particular the further implementation of the internal market with the free movement of services, which has made the european union competitive, are essential for the european union as a whole and for the euro area to be successful in competing in the global economy.
for the alde group i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very well-written paper and to underline the importance of the debate on the development of a pan-european mortgage market. the rapid integration of the labour and capital markets in the european union and the development of the internal market are creating new needs in the mortgage sector as well. we believe it is essential to properly assess the challenges that have arisen. in particular, the need to reduce the cost of raising capital by creating a single market for mortgage financing and offering attractive and safe investment products. secondly, the need to facilitate the transition from one country's mortgage market to another, in view of the increasing mobility of labour. third, the need to properly organise the network of brokers' advisory services in order to provide greater choice to the public and increase access to flexible, modern mortgage products, fourth, it is essential to increase market transparency and, at the same time, competitiveness by harmonising the procedure for calculating the different payments for mortgage products and by disclosing all costs associated with the purchase of mortgage products. the purchase of a home is one of the largest and most significant investments in a person's life, and the impact of all offers must be carefully assessed and considered. currently, mortgage lending is mainly developed within national markets and is highly fragmented, while the development of a common mortgage market is understood as the possibility for banks to offer mortgage products through their branches in other countries of the european union. so creating a new mortgage market will be a serious challenge for all of us and will require a lot of effort.
member of the commission. i do know this concept and i do appreciate it. i like beer myself. but this is a position not shared either by the commission or by the council.
until now, the most popular alcoholic beverages - wine and beer - have been subject to a minimum excise duty of zero for wine. this does not apply to beer, for which an increase in excise duty is currently being sought. how can the commission explain such a disparity in the taxation of alcohol, especially now that france is seeking an exemption for a specific type of wine in the negotiations?
member of the commission. last year, when the increase in excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic drinks was discussed by the ecofin council, some member states raised the issue of the difference between the taxation of beer and the taxation of wine. as the honourable members probably know, since 1992, when the current rates were established, there has been no positive excise duty rate on wine. at that time, it was finally agreed that wine would be zero rated. unless there is another decision to re-evaluate the excise duty, zero remains zero, even if increased by a proposed 31%. i appreciate the views of those who argue there is basically not much difference between wine and beer, and it is also a fact that wine and beer are competing on the consumer market. however, to change the legislation would require unanimity and, as far as i know, at least ten member states would certainly veto any positive rates on wine.
i am very sorry, but because of the change in the order of appearance of the commissioners, i did not hear the full answer to my question, so i would like to ask the commissioner again. can he guarantee that the new countries of the european union will not be discriminated against in this respect because of alcohol?
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of the human immunodeficiency virus, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (hiv/aids), the commission has supported interventions implemented by national and provincial health ministries since 1994. a number of ngos have also been supported directly by the european programme for reconstruction and development and/or by the thematic budget line for poverty-related diseases. the interventions have largely achieved the results envisaged by the various projects. however, their sustainability, particularly in the social sectors, is a source of concern because of the recurring costs they entail. there are currently two interventions under way with ministries of health that are funded by the indicative programme. partnerships for the provision of primary health care, including for hiv/aids with €25 million: this programme establishes partnerships between ngos and five of the nine provincial health ministries. ngos fund scholarships and provide appropriate training for poorly or no trained carers. these providers provide basic aids treatment care to patients who previously had no access to it. there are currently 187,000 patients receiving care and 5,000 care providers. these figures will increase considerably once the new programme, which has been allocated eur 45 million, becomes operational in 2007. second programme: support for the comprehensive hiv/aids care management and treatment plan of the south african government for €25 million. this programme was approved by the commission in december 2004. it aims to support the implementation of the aids action plan, particularly in relation to human resource planning, marketing authorisation for medicines, financing of care and health promotion activities. in the education sector, there is a programme on hiv/aids, the aids programme in higher education, he/aids 20 million. this programme follows on from a project funded by the difit programme and ireland. it aims to reduce the spread of hiv/aids in a significantly affected age group with signs of behavioural relapse and in the wider higher education community. a regional hiv/aids awareness and education programme community contribution of €10 million, complementary to the €20 million provided by the uk, the netherlands and ireland was approved by the commission in 2002. it is implemented by soul city, a south african ngo. for the past fourteen years, soul city has received substantial support from the european community to develop its 'edutainment' approach education and entertainment which involves the use of tv and radio soap operas, supported by leaflets and other multilingual materials which delve into the topics developed in the programmes. this programme does not cover south africa, but eight neighbouring countries. although the action carried out in recent years has produced excellent results, it must be noted that this programme faces administrative problems linked to its cross-border nature and the fact that it is supported by several different sources of funding. in addition to the programmes financed by the dpr, six projects financed by different thematic budget lines totalling approximately eur 10 million are currently under way in south africa. they all have goals related to the fight against aids. among these is a vaccine research project linking south african and european research institutes. as regards the use and availability of medicines, the commission has no specific programme in south africa to promote the use of generic medicines, but it supports the measures taken by the south african department of health to streamline and improve the regulation of medicines. it should be remembered that the problem is often not the unavailability of antiretroviral drugs but the reluctance of patients to seek testing and treatment, and the lack of access to equipment and healthcare personnel, especially pharmacists who must receive patients and give them advice before treatment is started.
member of the commission. i think that the fight against this scourge must begin with much greater coherence between the various actors. in this respect, the commission has also made a significant and new contribution to the global fund and will continue to do so in the future. at the london refinancing meeting, we poured into this global fund something like 90 million more. i must say that this meeting on the refinancing of the global fund was not as successful as expected: although we managed to raise a relatively large amount, we did not raise the amount we wanted. secondly, i believe that the european union, the commission, must finance projects and strategies which are effective. we have neither the expertise nor the capacity to become operators or actors in this field ourselves. so we have to trust those who have this expertise, those who have already demonstrated some effectiveness. it's going to be a long fight. if we think we can solve this problem quickly, i think we are wrong. i believe that the action is effective, but that there is still a long way to go. for example, i think that we cannot encourage too much education, even if only primary education, for all girls in africa. indeed, if we really want to have an effective measure in africa to combat this scourge, we must start by sending girls very quickly and en masse to primary school. i believe that this will be one of the most effective preventive measures to combat this scourge. so, yes, europe is doing all it can. but you ask me a question that is difficult for me to answer. you ask me: are you are effective? yes, i think we're effective, but we'll never be effective enough. i cannot answer the question, how long will it take to eradicate this scourge? the only thing to bet on is the quantity of resources, the strategy of the experts - who are numerous, sometimes very numerous - and the strategy and goodwill of the actors - who are numerous, sometimes very numerous. personally, i think we'd better have coherent strategies and i'm not sure that a kind of spraying on all kinds of different actors is the right formula. i am very much in favour of the idea of conducting strategies directly with the governments of the countries concerned because i think that countries should take ownership of the actions to be taken. countries have to step in. in botswana, for example, the government, the botswana state is making a real effort, it's really going door to door. his job is to go to every house and explain prevention, treatment. i think there is certainly a systematic approach to be taken in this respect. to return to the question you asked me, she embarrasses me. i can't tell you if we're effective, because it would be lying to say that we are. i think we're efficient, but i can't bet on that.
i would like to ask the president, commissioner, about the prevention of hiv/aids. i had to discuss this in rural communities in mozambique. everyone knows what this disease is and that it should be fought. but there are no safeguards: they are either unavailable or too expensive to buy. what can be done in this area of disease prevention?
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency's specific objective is to strengthen the union's coherent and comprehensive immigration policy, which includes both legal and illegal immigration. it should also be noted that the second indent of article 67 (2) of the ec treaty allows the council, acting unanimously after consulting the european parliament, to decide that the codecision procedure should be applied to legal immigration.
president of the council. mr president, as the council's representative, i do not wish to comment on the internal debate in the member states. i would simply like to point out that the use of this 'passerelle' or transitional clause requires the unanimous decision of the council member states, but that unanimity has not yet been reached. however, this issue will be further examined, since cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs is precisely the area of cooperation where european citizens expect and wish the union to act effectively.
mr. minister, i wanted to ask you about immigration. the european commission has presented a green paper on the management of economic migration in the european union. we know that most of these are economic migrations. this book stated that entry into a member state is a matter for the member state. would the debate on the transition to qualified majority voting in this case be in breach of the principle of subsidiarity?
president of the council. mr president, i understand that no decisions have yet been taken on this financing, and of course parliament, as the holder of important budgetary powers, can also influence the direction in which the common funds are directed.
since today we are discussing the challenges of globalisation, my question is about the european globalisation adjustment fund, our new annual fund, our new financial instrument to meet the challenges of globalisation. is the council in a position to enforce this fund as soon as possible, and by that i mean in 2007?
president of the council. as i said in my earlier reply, mr president, the council of the european union does not take a position on the alleged armenian genocide in turkey, but it is the task of historians to assess history. we welcome, however, initiatives which seek to shed new light on the tragic events of 1915. the finnish presidency and the commission have both stated that the recognition of the armenian genocide is not a criterion for turkey's eu membership.
the honourable minister, no doubt, values history for historians, but they value it differently. a democratic state that cannot appreciate its past cannot call itself democratic. i do not think that turkey meets the first copenhagen criterion. it also fails to comply with other requirements, such as the ankara protocol, and does not open ports to a member state of the european union. does it not seem that turkey is dictating the terms of membership of the european union and will we not then have more serious consequences if it starts dictating more terms?
president of the council. mr president, the union has an important role to play in the work of the human rights council and preparations are now under way for the third council meeting. this third session will focus on the formulation of the council's policies and working methods. the union is currently taking a very active part in the preparations in geneva. the future agenda of the council will also be discussed. the eu will actively pursue its own objectives in these negotiations, for example to ensure the maintenance and strengthening of the special mechanism system. the union is also taking part in the discussions on the creation of a new periodic review.
madam minister, i was able to attend the first session of the united nations human rights council with the delegation of the european parliament's subcommittee on human rights and to see how the countries of the european union coordinate their positions, trying to speak with one voice. my question to you is: what issues did the european union initiate during the finnish presidency to be discussed in the human rights council?
for the alde group ladies and gentlemen, i should like to welcome the first communication from the commission on multilingualism, which sets out the main objectives of the european union's policy on linguistic diversity: to promote language learning and a multilingual economy, and to give all eu citizens access to community legislation and information in their mother tongue. the european union today is made up of 450 million people from a variety of ethnic, cultural and linguistic backgrounds. the benefits of paying for foreign languages are undeniable. language helps us to understand the way of life of others and opens the door to cultural tolerance. language skills also make it possible to work, study, travel and communicate. learning foreign languages is necessary from a very early age, when the human brain is most receptive to new information. i agree with that as a medical doctor. so far, surveys show that almost half of the respondents admit to speaking only their mother tongue. so we have a long-term goal that cannot be postponed. as many as 84% of europeans agree that every eu citizen should know at least one foreign language. so we have the public support that we are increasingly talking about when we pass european union legislation. on the other hand, we cannot forget the old european languages, one of the oldest of which is my native lithuanian. i would like to stress the problem of preserving such languages in the context of linguistic diversity in europe. in addition to the objective of learning foreign languages, we must not forget the other challenge of preserving and promoting the ancient languages of europe and guaranteeing their rights by law. i imagine a multilingual european as an educated person living in a country other than his or her own, speaking foreign languages for professional reasons and wanting to continue his or her education. unfortunately, the benefits of multilingualism are still not being enjoyed by a large proportion of european society, and the motivation of citizens to learn languages is still not high. let us promote it by all means possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs gebhardt on the preparation of this complex document. some say it's a great achievement of ours, a compromise found. i agree with that in part. but i think the goal we're trying to reach is still a long way off. the aim is to liberalise the market which has the greatest potential for growth and job creation in the community economy. she's a little tense today. the proposed directive may encourage the creation of new services by creating a legal basis for them. it is good that the second part defines what actions cannot be taken against service providers. however, i do not agree with the extremely narrow list of activities. the possibility remains for destination countries to create barriers to the provision of services. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the liberalisation of the services market means that people can choose. we must create the conditions for the free provision of high quality services at competitive prices throughout the community. this should be guaranteed by the services directive. not this one, though.
i think that today parliament will show that it is already mature enough to push the lisbon reforms forward. the rapporteur and parliament have done a lot of work on this directive already at first reading. we remember how the press was dazzled by the assessment that the directive was being turned upside down. i'm afraid that's the truth. the honourable members, the commission and the council have shown respect for parliament, and today we have before us a text which reflects the views of more than 90% of the members of parliament. we need to provide feedback. we are now responsible to the european citizens for the credibility of the joint decision-making process and for preserving a genuine european compromise. parliament will set a good precedent and send a welcome signal to european businesses and consumers. i urge all colleagues to support the directive, it is time to free the 70 per cent of the potential of the sector that determines our well-being from bureaucratic disputes and to take a strong, albeit very small, step forward.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the freedom to provide services is one of the four freedoms of the european union guaranteed by the treaty establishing the european economic community. it prohibits restrictions on the establishment of nationals of one member state in another member state and obstacles to the free movement of services. dear colleagues, for two years we have been working on a document that will give us the freedom that has been our fundamental right for 50 years. the proposal for a directive has removed the principle of country of origin (the free movement of services), services of general interest, healthcare, social and other services. lithuania was the only country to abstain in the council vote in favour of the directive. i think that it will not be long before we see that the implementation of the directive will not meet our expectations. i therefore voted against the directive, as i did at first reading.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the presidency for the comments it has received on this matter. as i said in my opening speech, we have been trying this autumn to think and look for different options for this interinstitutional agreement. the commission's proposal is particularly concerned with matters of substance and legal basis. it is absolutely essential that we create a regulatory environment and a framework that works well, is sensible and is cost-effective in practice. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, this could be the right moment to repeat the common set of good governance principles that the commission wanted to include in an interinstitutional agreement to oversee and help the functioning of these agencies, because it would give a definition of these agencies and would create rules on their creation, structure and functioning, including issues of transparency, evaluation and control. in all this discussion about the format, it is important to remember the content. we in the commission are ready to explore the option mentioned by mr duff of considering a regulation under article 308. we are open to exploring that option. however, as far as the decision-making process is concerned, the european parliament, for example, would only have a consultative role in the content of the future regulation. that is why our preference was for an interinstitutional agreement. finally, i can only express our hopes for a dialogue on these issues. we shall continue to look for the most appropriate, effective and cost-effective method to deal with these necessary issues to try to establish some common rules and a common set of good governance principles for the agencies.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's plenary session this week is dealing with a number of maritime issues, such as the baltic sea strategy. the presidency welcomes the fact that regional issues are being dealt with as part of a larger whole. on monday you discussed the eu marine strategy and the marine environment directive, which are part of the eu's marine policy currently being prepared. the northern dimension parliamentary conference, scheduled for next spring, is a welcome example of parliament's interest in northern affairs. the eight eu member states bordering the baltic sea and russia are particularly concerned about the baltic sea. norway and iceland are also joining the baltic sea cooperation as members of the council of the baltic sea states. as a major transport corridor, the baltic sea is of importance to all eu countries. a broad, horizontal cooperation is therefore needed both within the union and between the eu and russia and other partners in areas such as the environment, energy, transport, education, justice and home affairs and health. the union's common maritime policy, which is currently being prepared, will also help to strengthen this cooperation. the use of the union's internal financial programmes and external instruments must also be further enhanced in order to achieve concrete results. in addition, opportunities for crossborder cooperation, which is also supported by the new neighbourhood instrument, must be created. the northern dimension mentioned by the rapporteur, which is proposed as part of the baltic sea strategy, is part of the eu's external relations policy. it covers the four common eu-russia regions' policy sectors, as well as environmental, social and health issues. the baltic sea is one of the target areas of the northern dimension, along with north-west russia, kaliningrad and the arctic regions. one of the objectives of the finnish presidency is to reform the policy on the northern dimension on the basis of the decisions taken at the northern dimension ministerial conference in november last year. the new northern dimension framework document was negotiated this year between the eu, russia, norway and iceland. the framework document and the associated political declaration are due to be adopted in helsinki on friday next week. we believe that the new commonly agreed policy will strengthen the partners' commitment to the northern dimension and provide a solid basis for practical cooperation in the baltic sea region. we also hope that the reinforced northern dimension will help to clarify the operation and division of labour of the multifaceted cooperation network in the baltic sea and the arctic. the ecological situation in the baltic sea is a cause for concern and requires urgent action in accordance with the principles of sustainable development. the european union, individual countries and international financial institutions have joined forces in the northern dimension environmental partnership. several governments, organisations, in particular the baltic sea conservation commission helcom, and other actors are working to save the marine environment of the baltic sea. the northern dimension environmental partnership projects are primarily targeted at north-west russia, but their impact benefits all countries in the region. and by the way, the baltic sea is fortunately the central region of the northern dimension already. the eu marine strategy directive is a key instrument for the future improvement of the state of all european seas, including the baltic sea. the objective is to achieve 'good environmental status' by 2021. this is a challenging objective and efforts to achieve it must be started immediately. the finnish presidency will seek to achieve political agreement on the directive by december. the northern dimension also includes a social and health partnership aimed at combating communicable diseases and diseases of the environment and reducing social problems. a transport and logistics partnership is also being prepared as a new element for the northern dimension. the importance of efficient transport links and efficient logistics for economic growth and competitiveness will become even more apparent as our economies become interconnected. the european commission is currently preparing a new comprehensive european maritime policy, which takes into account the economic, political and environmental values of europe's seas and coastal regions. the baltic sea is an important european sea area whose specific issues should also be addressed in the development of the eu's maritime policy. that is the purpose of this evening's discussion. the eu's maritime policy provides a good platform for cooperation between member states. this is needed when the specific characteristics of the northern and arctic regions and the exploitation of their potential require joint research and technological development by the eu member states. the specific cooperation with third countries in the region makes use of existing international agreements and organisations. the numerous challenges facing the baltic sea region, such as marine protection, maritime safety, sustainable fisheries and coastal use and the development of the maritime sector in the region, all require effective horizontal cooperation. the baltic sea region offers a great opportunity to test and develop the eu's maritime policy in the making for the benefit of the union as a whole. the baltic sea issue is important and it is good that it is receiving serious attention in the european union and here in parliament. it must be said that some of the ideas of the rapporteur, these ten commandments, are already a reality. the baltic sea is a matter of interest and necessity for all the countries of the region to cooperate and to be genuinely committed to solving common challenges. this common commitment is what we must strive for in all our cooperation in the baltic sea.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the commission is most grateful to mr stubb for his report, and welcomes the opportunity for a debate. there is no mistaking his commitment and determination. the baltic sea is a very important sea for the european union, since eight of the nine countries with a baltic shoreline are eu member states. it is a meeting point for the european union and russia. with this in mind, the new northern dimension policy framework document, to be adopted later this month, will have as its priority areas the baltic and barents seas, kaliningrad and the arctic. the new northern dimension policy will be the regional expression, in the north, of the eu-russia common spaces, with the full involvement of norway and iceland. the northern dimension will also have its own priorities: health and social wellbeing and the protection of indigenous peoples in the high north, as well as particular emphasis on the environment and culture. a common new northern dimension policy implies that all the partners will be bound by the same goal: its success. accordingly, cofinancing will be the rule, particularly in a context of an increasingly wealthy russian federation. the northern dimension should not only be project-oriented, it should ensure a continuous policy dialogue on the various challenges and opportunities. the four northern regional councils the baltic, barents, nordic and arctic councils are important actors in this dialogue. the commission is grateful for the attention parliament has paid to this policy, and particularly for its resolution of 16 november 2005 ahead of the northern dimension ministerial meeting. the commission also commends the parliament’s initiative to call for the first conference of a northern dimension parliamentary forum early next year. as for a baltic strategy within the northern dimension that we are discussing today, the commission will bear this report by parliament in mind during the discussions at the northern dimension event at which the new policy is to be adopted and which will be held back to back with the forthcoming eu-russia summit in helsinki in the presence of the prime ministers of norway and iceland. the northern dimension is an eu external policy, but it is clearly important to improve the inter-relationship between eu internal policies and the northern dimension. that is why the commission gives such priority to cross-border cooperation, which is one of the main value-added elements of the northern dimension. this is indeed a field where internal and external policies necessarily meld together. the baltic sea is now a northern dimension priority because we are concerned about its fragile environment and the increasing traffic through its waters, as is correctly highlighted in the report. there are other less tangible threats to the citizens of the baltic sea region, including the fight against organised crime, human trafficking, transmissible diseases and unhealthy lifestyles. all of these require our close cooperation with russia, as well as with norway and iceland. furthermore, we see great potential for economic cooperation across the baltic sea with russia. these are all important objectives to which the northern dimension can make a great contribution and which will be elaborated upon in the future. eu internal policies, with their own tasks and their own instruments, will of course also make a major contribution to meeting these challenges in eu member states in the baltic sea region, and these should be debated in the appropriate contexts. the commission looks forward to using the new northern dimension policy to provide added value in a forum embracing russia, norway and iceland in order to meet the many challenges facing the northern part of our continent. in this context, the commission welcomes the report by parliament and will certainly convey the importance of the baltic sea region. i will try to integrate relevant elements of this report into the implementation of the new common northern dimension policy.
on behalf of the pse group the baltic sea strategy it's a really important document for the northern dimension. this is the merit of the excellent work of the rapporteur, mr alexander stubb, and of the whole baltic europe intergroup. the storms of the cold war have devastated the baltic coast more than any other sea - politically, economically and ecologically. we are feeling this even now as the baltic sea becomes the eu's internal sea. the russian coastline, which is a part of it, offers a good opportunity for cooperation with this country. with a population of 85 million, the region is one of the strongest in the eu economically and socially, and the welfare state model is widely implemented. but the differences in living standards between countries are shocking, with social exclusion rising alarmingly in some places. this strategy should help to counter such trends. particular attention is paid to environmental, economic and transport issues. the whole triad is highly dependent on energy and energy security, which is vulnerable to over-optimism and over-ambition on the part of any one country. the countries of the region need a common energy market. the focus will be on energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. the debate and concrete steps on nuclear energy are inevitable. the electric bridge will connect estonia with finland in early december and will be reinforced by similar bridges in lithuania sweden and lithuania poland. the strategy calls for faster and stronger connections between northern and central europe via motorways, railways and sea routes. poland is at the central crossroads. if warsaw does not pay more attention to these projects, they will remain on paper for a long time. the baltic sea is shallow and ecologically very vulnerable. it records more than 60 tanker accidents and 400 illegal oil spills each year. it sucks up the dirty sewage of nearly a million people living on the coast. it is necessary to establish and extend coastal protection zones and to apply stricter environmental standards than those provided for in eu directives. the european union wants to have not only a good but also a reliable, predictable neighbour in the kaliningrad region of the russian federation. the district governor, georgiy boas, speaks of kaliningrad as russia's window to europe and the eu's to russia. we would like that window to be wide and open to fresh winds of cooperation. a greater opening up of this area or a reversal of the process would indicate the direction of the whole of russia. the proposal to allocate a separate budget line to finance this strategy would demonstrate the cohesion and innovation of the baltic region. i am convinced that it is worth it, because it can and should be a laboratory for new ideas, projects and innovations, of a meaningful and wider scale. (applause) thank you very much.
the baltic sea, as mentioned earlier today, is an internal sea of the european union, bordered by nine states: eight of them are member states of the european union, the ninth is russia, its kaliningrad and st petersburg regions. these eight european union countries account for one third of the eu's population and one third of its gross domestic product. the northern dimension has so far been focused mainly on russian regions, and its complementing by the baltic sea strategy would only enrich the northern dimension itself, giving it additional, concrete content. the baltic sea region leads the competitiveness index compared with the other three eu regions: central europe, the british isles and the iberian peninsula. in recent years, the baltic sea region has outperformed other european regions in terms of prosperity, productivity growth and scientific innovation. key strengths of the region good physical infrastructure, skilled labour force, low level of corruption, strong research sector. however, it should also be noted that the competitive potential of the region has not been fully realised. and since no country in the region has a market large enough to generate the necessary competitive pressure, the solution to the problem is clearly to increase regional integration. the european parliament should support the article in our resolution which proposes (i quote): 'in the interests of transparency and consistency (...) a separate budget line for the baltic sea strategy, probably under the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, which would provide additional funding in addition to the current funding for the northern dimension' (end of quote). the fears that the european commission will not support this idea are unfounded. it is much more important to convince eu member states, especially those outside the region, to support this strategy. because it is precisely deeper integration of this region that would not only make the eu as a whole more dynamic and competitive, but also help to solve other eu problems, such as energy security, a common energy policy, better relations with russia.
mr president, the report we are considering is a significant step forward for the european union as a whole. the shift in new age political thinking that would be described by the concept of 'the discovery of the baltic' is being consolidated. the baltic sea, like the others, is made up of water, shores and a bottom. the baltic is shallow and the most polluted of europe's atlantic seas. the baltic sea is already dead in many places, and it is up to us to shape europe's new dead sea. the vast quantities of german chemical weapons sunk since the end of world war ii can greatly accelerate this process. these are bombs and shells with dioxin, mercury and other gifts that are already opening up after 60 years of metal rust. this is a huge disaster for both the water and the shores. the coast is particularly attractive, with white sandy beaches and pine forests. the curonian spit is included in the unesco world heritage register. its beauty was created by nature and man, and now man can destroy it, and the abstract world will not accept it. on the eastern shores of the sea live ancient peoples who would not want to flee from ecological disasters if they were caused by the new savage post-soviet capitalism. today i want to emphasize not only gazprom but also the responsibility of the german government for the consequences of the russian-german deal on the so-called northern gas pipeline if the construction of it touches the deadly poison deposits on the bottom of the baltic. the european union, which has blessed the financing of the gas pipeline without any investigations or guarantees, must take no less responsibility for any consequences of this allegedly dirty business. this means that we are not only responsible for the economic discriminatory effects, but also for the political disintegration of europe and for all the ecological consequences of possible demographic disasters. it is good that we are adopting this initial document on the european baltic strategy, that we are beginning to understand our responsibility.
mr president, i had prepared another speech, but i was struck by the honourable commissioner's idea that we should pay more attention to the problem of unhealthy lifestyles in the baltic region. the geopolitical significance of the region has been underestimated for many years, many centuries. because our baltic region is acting as a modernising engine. and it's the region that allows the expansion of the north, the arctic. it was also the region that made russia's modernization possible (if you know history). finland has also been strengthened by this region. (i regret that the finnish minister is not taking part in such an important debate.) so there's always an attempt to downplay that region. i think this study, this report, is also an opportunity to thank alexander stupanak for trying to give momentum to the baltic region, which is indeed the driving force behind the modernisation process in northern europe, and in this case may also be the driving force behind the modernisation process in the whole of the european union. i also want to support mr beazley's view that this project, this report, is in line with the basic idea of our parliament's work: bringing people closer to decision-making. i hope the commission will not forget this either.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for her extensive and important work. europe could boast that slavery had ended here before it had in other continents. but it returns in a different, no less disgusting form, bringing contempt, suffering and, at the same time, untold profits. what should be done first? better coordination between the eu and all neighbouring countries. remove loopholes that allow criminals to slip through the net of law enforcement with impunity. perhaps we could distribute to all members of the european parliament a sort of embarrassing list of countries that have failed to ratify the united nations conventions on trafficking in human beings. to develop a code of ethics for officials of the eu institutions and bodies, which could be studied by some meps. citizens, especially in the new eu countries, need to be informed widely and clearly so that they do not fall into the trap of human traffickers. victims of crime must have the courage and the right to seek help from the authorities without fear of deportation.
the european parliament frequently discusses topics of concern to all countries, as well as other topics of interest to representatives of individual countries. however, the european parliament press office does not reflect this distribution, and the national press offices of the european parliament (e.g. lithuania) state that they cannot include in their reviews as priority topics those which are not indicated to the european parliament press office. therefore, issues of importance to lithuania, such as the baltic sea strategy or relations with russia, are not reflected in lithuanian press reports. they are given a secondary role. i would urge the bureau of the european parliament to take an interest in the activities of the european parliament's press office and to ensure that the interests of europe as a whole and those of the countries whose issues are also discussed in the european parliament are reflected.
the developments in the eu-russia relations over the past few months show that europe is beginning to grasp reality. a strategic partner of supposedly shared values has already been disqualified as a pragmatic partner, and it is only a matter of time before iran, with its energy resources, is also recognised as a pragmatic partner of europe. supporting terrorists will not be an obstacle. we accept that russia's sovereign laws allow its agents to kill regime enemies anywhere in the world. we accept that the kremlin should tell europe frankly that the values you cherish are artificial, and that you should not try to spread your colonial democracy. we are silent and hope to get the energy charter at that price, even though russia has said many times that it will rewrite the document itself and force europe to land. now poland tried to defend the principle of european solidarity and the eu was not happy about that. we raised the energy problem raised by the poles, we talked only about meat. that is why the talk of a constitutional treaty is hopeless, as long as we do not have a solidarity treaty in our minds and hearts, as long as russia can buy not only gas pipelines, but also european politicians.
for the alde group i would like to congratulate the organisers for their in-depth analysis and proposals on one of the most pressing social issues of our time - the full integration of people with disabilities into our society. i agree with the many suggestions made by the authors of the report, which show that there are still a number of problems in this area today. i would like to highlight a few of them. modern information technologies, the internet and digital television open up completely new possibilities for adapting information to each user according to his needs and abilities. these include the wider use of subtitles, sign language on television, disabled-friendly dashboards, and adapted access to the internet, particularly public websites. we must encourage and ensure that all these opportunities are exploited. new buildings must be designed with the disabled in mind. improved transport systems will increase the mobility of these people in the future. these specialised needs must be considered on a regular basis, especially when using the european regional development fund and the structural funds. in parallel, national law must be improved, removing any discriminatory provisions incompatible with article 13 of the treaty of amsterdam. we must continue to work towards the abandonment of the medical model of disability and its replacement by a social model. it is essential that all these measures are accompanied by a concerted effort to eliminate stereotypes and prejudices towards people with disabilities and to educate the public. only coordinated and comprehensive efforts as outlined in the communication will allow faster and better results.
for the alde group first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. basically, i agree with her. it is one of many documents that should stimulate entrepreneurship in europe, especially the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. the community's policy in this area is consistent and, i would say, correct. the problem is that in real life, they're often not followed. often, laws are ignored, creating bureaucratic obstacles. i would like to mention two problems which i believe are particularly important for the success of small and medium-sized businesses. first, there are the business registration procedures. the commission has promised to implement the one-stop shop throughout the community by the end of 2007. at the march summit, member countries also agreed to simplify the procedures for registering new companies. it was agreed that they should not exceed one week. however, in practice, the registration of a business in different community countries now takes anywhere from one day to several weeks. the costs of registration also vary considerably. in some countries, it costs nothing; in others, it can cost hundreds of dollars. the second problem is the control of the activities of enterprises by various state institutions. there are currently 152 supervisory authorities in lithuania. businessmen cite this as one of the biggest problems and sources of corruption. recently, 300 commission staff committed themselves to working at least one week in small and medium-sized enterprises until 2009. it's how they try to understand the problems. this is a welcome and concrete step. perhaps similar actions should be extended to europe, but will the community support them? i'm sure we'll have to remove the bureaucratic obstacles to business development. we will then be able to say that we are making europe a business, that we are promoting its growth.
today's vote supported the main points of the report on the european action plan 2006-2007 for persons with disabilities in the enlarged european union. i would like to stress in particular the importance of employment for disabled people and the possibility of avoiding social exclusion through employment. it is very important that people with mental or physical disabilities can also have work that is commensurate with their abilities. this requires not only the implementation of the council directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation, but also the preparation of a specific directive on disability, the creation of a common european definition of disability. it is also important to launch information campaigns and education of the public and employers on the employment of disabled people as soon as possible. companies employing disabled people should be accorded public respect and recognition.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy security and the common energy policy remain at the top of the european union's agenda. however, the development and implementation of such a policy is a long-term project. germany and russia are bilaterally building a gas pipeline across the baltic sea that is not safe from an ecological point of view, given the seabed legacy of the second world war, which threatens to have dire consequences for the baltic states. at the same time, the eu is calling for the closure of safe, modernised nuclear power plants. scientists estimate that in 2010 the baltic region will lack 3.5 billion kilowatt-hours of electricity. where will we get it, how much will we pay for it, and will we feel safe? has anyone calculated how the electricity shortage will affect the eu's competitiveness? i call on all member states, after assessing developments in the energy market, to support the application of article 37 of the treaty on the accession of lithuania to the eu, by considering the possibility of extending the operation of the ignalina nuclear power plant.
i would like to draw your attention to the work of our brilliant translators, to the quality of their work. recently, there has been a great deal of complaint about the deteriorating quality of translations. and as you probably know, madam president, we spend a lot of money on translation and take a justifiable pride in speaking in the european institutions in many different languages. i think that one of the problems that has led to an increase in the number of complaints about the quality of translations is that the quality control system for translations in our parliament is not properly designed and does not function properly. in fact, the quality of translations is mostly peer-reviewed, meaning they are peer-reviewed, which is probably not very objective. it is not very often that the staff of the translation services also respond to the comments of members. at least i didn't get an answer. i hope the bureau will take note of this.
member of the commission. mr president, this december part-session is an important milestone in establishing an effective and streamlined legislative framework for the community’s external spending. i must say i feel honoured that i represent the commission in this part-session, as we are now close to concluding negotiations on the four remaining instruments for the delivery of external spending, for the future period from 2007 to 2013. we have all come a long way since the commission tabled these proposals two years ago. the new simplified architecture was the first attempt to streamline all the instruments for external spending. this was deemed the highest priority for the commission in order to increase our own efficiency and coherence and that of our external action as a whole. while both parliament and the council welcomed the simplification process, these proposals generated a very substantial debate. important questions were raised soon after parliament began its work. i greatly appreciate the efforts made by parliament and the successive council presidencies to find constructive solutions to the challenges we have encountered with these innovative proposals. these efforts culminated in a successful trialogue in june 2006 when an overall agreement was reached on the architecture of the external financing instruments. reflecting your concern to ensure a strong development focus for the development cooperation instrument, we agreed to separate the instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries. a specific human rights instrument was also established. to address your further concerns, it was agreed that the instruments be adopted under codecision whenever the treaty made this possible, and a separate instrument for nuclear safety cooperation was created so that the instrument for stability could pass from consultation to codecision. in total four of the seven new instruments are now co-decided. this gives parliament a legitimate and unprecedented degree of legislative power over the framework covering external spending. as for the development cooperation instrument, which represents the central brick in this new architecture, i greatly appreciate the fruitful cooperation with parliament, especially during the last five months, and i thank the rapporteur, mr mitchell, for the central role he has played in bringing the negotiations to a positive and timely conclusion. i should further thank the committee on development’s negotiating team. the compromise as reflected in the negotiated common position of the council represents a finely balanced solution. i also appreciate that the committee on development endorsed this compromise and recommended the approval of the negotiated common position of the council at second reading. as requested by parliament, the development cooperation instrument now includes indicative financial allocations, a mid-term review and an expiry date. for the new co-decided instruments, we have also agreed that before undertaking the review parliament should examine the operation of the instruments to identify any dysfunctional situations which may have arisen. parliament’s report would be considered by the commission in carrying out the review of the instruments. this review should be carried out in 2009. in response to the letter sent by the chair of the committee on development, mrs morgantini, i am pleased to confirm that this review date will also apply to the development cooperation instrument. in comparison with the development cooperation instrument, and if budgetary clout is a measure of importance, the instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries does not stand out as the biggest amongst the external action instruments, but this should not lead to underestimating its utility and its relevance in enhancing the role of the european union in the wider world. indeed, this instrument will directly help promote the eu’s objective of becoming a more visible player on the global stage. it will achieve this objective by providing a framework in which, through concrete initiatives, we can strengthen relations with key developed partners, promote community interests, and also raise awareness about the eu there. since last june, the rapporteur, the finnish presidency and the commission have worked hand-in-hand to ensure a timely adoption of the instrument, while making sure that the views of each institution are duly taken into consideration. in this regard i would like to express my appreciation to the rapporteur, david martin, and the committee on international trade as a whole for their hard work and the spirit of cooperation demonstrated in expeditiously processing the dossier. this ongoing dialogue has permitted the factoring-in of parliament’s views in preparatory discussions in the council held in parallel with parliamentary work and therefore, thanks also to this collaborative approach, beyond the commission’s own view and without encroaching on the council’s prerogatives. i can envision with some confidence that key amendments regarding, in particular, references to the core values of the community – democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights; the protection of the community’s interests; reinforced evaluation and reporting provisions for the specification of an indicative financial envelope for the period 2007-13; or the inclusion of the review clause – will find their way into the final text. furthermore, additional editorial changes will bring the final text more into line with language suggested by parliament and with language already agreed in other external action instruments, to ensure sound coherence between them. i am looking forward to a positive outcome to the votes on the development cooperation instrument today. that will allow the commission to start its work as of 1 january and for the delivery of the external assistance without any further delay, which is so important. with an agreement on the remaining legislative proposals the european union will significantly increase the effectiveness of its external spending and, in particular, its visibility on the international scene, allowing it to live up to its role as major donor of development aid. similarly, i welcome the positive view taken on the industrialised countries instrument in the report that is put before parliament today. i can give you a clear assurance that the final text, which the council is set to adopt very soon, will also substantively reflect the main thrust of parliament’s resolution. that is a testimony to our willingness to work constructively with parliament on this dossier, something that will continue in future in implementing cooperation activities, with industrialised countries as well.
for the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament was not satisfied with the proposal for a regulation on the financial instrument for development cooperation (fdi) submitted by the european commission to the european parliament exactly two years ago. the regulation sought to reduce the european parliament's co-decision powers, was inconsistent with the principles of development cooperation policy and undermined economic cooperation with developing and developed countries. today's second reading is a debate on the renamed document on the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation. the committee on development and cooperation was particularly concerned to have a development cooperation financial instrument dedicated to developing countries. the document submitted for second reading is a genuine compromise document reached by the european parliament, the council and the commission in the tripartite negotiations. the codecision rule, budgetary transparency and accountability to parliament, the return of the old budget lines, the restoration of detailed financial provisions and specific development cooperation instruments have been restored. it should be stressed that the reference to article 179 of the ec treaty was agreed, as the common position ensures a broad definition of development cooperation and a wide choice of actions under geographical and thematic programmes. the geographical programmes cover latin america, asia, central asia, the middle east and south africa. thematic programmes include programmes such as investing in people, the environment and the management of sustainable natural resources, including energy, non-state actors and local authorities in the development process, food security and migration, and asylum. it is good to see that the financing of basic education and healthcare has been agreed and that more than 20% of development funding will be allocated to this, which is one of the priorities of the european parliament's committee on development cooperation. the commission has committed itself to a stronger monitoring of the implementation of the objectives. we have consistently made this point in our budgetary discharge. the regulation on the development cooperation financial instrument replaced 16 existing pieces of legislation, and is a welcome step towards improving and simplifying eu legislation. i propose that the regulation be adopted without amendments and without additions.
today, we congratulate the rapporteur, mr gay mitchell, on reaching a good compromise with the council on a very important issue after two years of negotiations. for the first time, we have a definition of development policy that allows development cooperation to be directed only to those countries that need it most. a fifth of the funds will go to health and education - a socially just support for countries struggling to overcome the scourges of poverty, disease and lack of education. it is very important that parliament is able to exercise constant control and influence over the distribution of funds. the compromise we are discussing shows that this is necessary. i think that developing countries will welcome this constructive step by the european parliament and the commission, which gives hope that the €17 billion will be distributed in a deliberate way, with the greatest benefit to the hardest-working people. it is important to spread the news in the european union countries, especially the new ones.
mr president, in all the continuing debates surrounding abortions performed on those who could live, one rather individual moment is presented by a seemingly neutral formula: reproductive healthcare, which is a catch-all term, and in a sense a confusing one. therefore, we should speak openly about non-reproductive health and show concern about how to limit or lessen reproductivity inside european society without causing physical harm to women. such harm is a very bad thing, but the time should come to realise that the problem is broader, as the harm includes psychological and social aspects and should deal also with the lack of compassion and growth of cruelty in our societies, which are turning them demographically into suicidal ones. those are the reasons why i voted for the deletions proposed by mr mitchell.
member of the commission. madam president, mr president of the council, madam president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the commission fully agrees with the honourable member that the silver economy is a very promising area of development and should be encouraged at local, national and european level. the silver economy is one example of how we can take advantage of the increasing life expectancy. in its recent communication 2006/571 'the demographic future of europe: taking advantage of the challenge', the commission used the silver economy as an example of the positive impact that ageing can have in terms of new economic opportunities for growth. the commission welcomes initiatives such as sen@er network of european regions for a silver economy. at the recent first european forum on demography, a senior official from north rhine-westphalia presented the activities of the state in the context of the silver economy and the activities of the sen@er network at one of the workshops. on 25 and 26 january 2007, the commission will organise a major conference on the regional response to demographic change. the conference will present a number of regional examples of successful silver economy projects, often supported by the structural funds. i would also like to mention that on 17-18 april 2007 the german presidency, with the support of the commission, will organise in berlin an important conference 'demographischer wandel, chancen erkennen, potentiale nutzen, wachstum fördern' on the possible synergies between ageing and the economy. the silver economy is a new subject which touches on many different policy areas within the commission. the commission has already set up an internal group to coordinate the various european policies relating to demographic change and, in this context, the commission will continue to work on demography in general and on the silver economy in particular. such work can lead to various commission initiatives, including on the impact of population ageing and the opportunities offered by the silver economy. in response to demographic ageing, the commission also intends to launch a key initiative i2010 in which it will propose a coherent approach and concrete actions related to the development, innovative and increased use of information and communication technologies. this initiative will build on all available instruments, including the seventh framework programme of the article 169 initiative on assisted living at home, the new competitiveness and innovation programme on the use of ict solutions relating to ageing, as well as awareness raising and policy actions. a commission communication on this issue is expected in early 2007.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, demographic ageing, its consequences and the silver economy, i.e. the full awareness of the changes that demographic ageing brings to both consumption and production, are such important issues that if parliament adopts this initiative, i can only say that i will be following it with great interest and that i will fully support it. as regards the search for organisational structures, i think that at this stage we cannot yet opt for a fixed structure, but in any case we will be monitoring the progress of the network of european regions for a silver economy and will also be interested in how effectively the national coordination services are working on this issue. ladies and gentlemen, the commission communication on demographic ageing makes it clear that demographic change is one of the most significant changes our society is undergoing, that it affects all parts of society and has far-reaching consequences. this is why the commission has chosen, among other things, the concept of mainstreaming, i.e. the projection of the consequences into all policy areas, including consumer policy and consumer protection policy, and into the economy in general.
the president, commissioner, the lisbon strategy was to achieve competitiveness by raising the retirement age to 65. in germany, the retirement age is raised to 67. in the 21st century, we're not introducing new technologies, but we're extending retirement ages and working hours. what do you think should be the age at which a person can retire?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mr bachelot on the preparation of this very difficult report. i am sure that the global fund was conceived with a noble purpose, and the rapporteur herself had a noble purpose: to help people who have lost their jobs. but before you vote, ladies and gentlemen, i'd like you to answer a few questions: is it really the commission's role to regulate and intervene in the micro-management of businesses throughout the community? 2.how will the commission determine whether a firm is leaving the market because of the effects of globalisation or because of normal competition? we know that thousands of businesses go bankrupt naturally every year. 3. how do we explain why employees of other naturally bankrupt companies do not receive benefits? will this fund not become another source of conflict between the people of the community? 4.why would the commission's proposed programmes for retraining, job-search assistance and other counselling work better than those currently in use and often provided free of charge? as you know, they're not very effective. the idea of a globalisation fund may make political sense, but the proposed regulation clearly lacks economic logic. it is contrary to the fundamental principles of the free market and, in particular, to the principle of competition. there is no guarantee that the funds will reach the people who are out of work, not the consulting firms or other intermediaries. i therefore think it is difficult to vote for this document without a clear answer to these questions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on globalisation here in parliament, we often hear some countries boast about having moved production to third countries with cheap labour. however, relocation has the other side of the coin - the loss of jobs and the welfare of eu citizens. we are seeing the first sign of european solidarity with the unemployed european globalisation adjustment fund. under the regulation, the use of the fund will be subject to strict criteria, taking into account the extent of the economic disruption and its impact on the local, regional or national economy. how can we determine the extent of the economic disruption? the regulation proposes to grant aid to 1000 unemployed workers, the ep proposes to grant an exception to 500 workers. however, in the smaller eu countries, over 90% of enterprises are medium and small, of which over 90% are micro-enterprises. so the real support will be for large companies in large countries. the egf is a one-off support but the egf should also be linked to job creation in order to reintegrate workers into the labour market.
member of the commission. mr president, madam member of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i am very pleased that the discussions between the council and parliament were able to move forward quickly under the finnish presidency and that we are now very close to an agreement. the establishment of the european institute for gender equality responds to the real need to give european gender equality policy new tools to enable it to make further progress. this need was expressed as early as 1999. the european parliament, and in particular the committee on women's rights, has consistently supported the creation of such an institute. the institute will help us, the community institutions and the member states, to formulate and implement policies by developing knowledge on equal opportunities for men and women. to this end, the institute will organise the collection, analysis and dissemination of objective, reliable and comparable data at community level. it will also develop appropriate methodological tools, in particular to better integrate the gender perspective into all community policies. the first reading allowed certain points in the commission's proposal to be clarified and clarified. the common position also incorporates most of the european parliament's amendments. we had to find a solution to the question of the composition of the management board in the second reading. the council and the european parliament have had very different views on this issue. i am pleased that both institutions have made an effort to reach a fully balanced compromise. the compromise on the negotiating table represents an improvement over the common position. on the one hand, the rotation system of the members of the management board, as well as the joint declarations, allowed the reluctant member states to accept a medium-sized management board. this will enable the institute to operate efficiently, given its size and the nature of its activities. on the other hand, the adjustments concerning the appointment of the director, the reintegration of the forum of experts and the appointment of two experts to the forum by parliament strengthen the role of the european parliament. the commission can therefore accept this compromise. i am sure that parliament, which shares our wish that the regulation should be adopted by the end of the year, will also be able to adopt it, and i thank you in advance for that. ladies and gentlemen, let me also thank the rapporteurs, mrs gröner and mrs sartori. i have had the opportunity to meet them very often, and each of you has surely noted their persistent efforts in the course of the work. they're the reason we're in this phase, which i hope we can close tomorrow.
for the alde group dear president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the decision of the general affairs and external relations council of the european union on 1 december this year to establish a european institute for gender equality in vilnius, lithuania. the european council of 14 and 15 december will formally endorse this decision in its conclusions. this will be the first eu institution in the new member state lithuania. although the struggle for equal rights for women has a long history, the gender pay gap remains a major obstacle to women's advancement. gender equality in practice would not only be a realisation of the eu's democratic values of freedom of expression and interpersonal relations, but would also help to tackle demographic challenges and reduce poverty. the main tasks of the new institute are to collect, analyse and propose information on gender equality and to disseminate information on the state of gender equality in the european union and in third countries. i am confident that the european institute for gender equality, established in lithuania, will work successfully, as lithuania has experience, cooperates with other eu countries, has the opportunity to spread experience to third countries, especially to its eastern neighbours. the commission endorsed 40 of parliament's proposals, extending the geography of information collection and analysis and provision to both acceding and candidate countries. however, the extent of discrimination against women in some eu countries is so high that the reduction in the institute's expenditure should not be welcomed. i think the reverse should be done: increase the number of staff and budget of the institute accordingly in line with the expanded scope of activities. i would also like to stress that it is primarily the member states themselves who must take the initiative to implement gender equality policies actively and effectively at national level. the european institute for gender equality would assist them in carrying out these tasks. and if the president will allow me, i, a. sartori, would like to say that the geographical centre of europe is near vilnius, not far from the city of brussels.
the enlargement of the union, both of the latter and of the former, has strengthened it, boosted its economic growth and increased its importance in the world. we must therefore stick to our commitment to further enlargement of the european union, because it is a historic opportunity and a responsibility to build a united and prosperous europe. however, enlargement must be accompanied by a deepening of the eu, with its institutions adapted to the new countries that join. the eu structures are being developed for the 27 member states as of this year. for europe to continue to develop and function effectively, there are a number of urgent tasks that need to be addressed: 1. we must strengthen public support for development, and to this end we must explain in detail the benefits, achievements, economic benefits and historical responsibilities of european development. 2. to review the financial plan, including the financing system, in order to adapt it to the new needs of the enlarged union; 3. carry out the necessary institutional improvements and changes. it is therefore essential that the countries holding the eu presidency until 2008 take the initiative to bring the constitutional treaty into force. in conclusion, i would like to point out that, looking ahead, it is necessary to reinforce the european neighbourhood policy, which would allow the participating countries not only to accelerate reforms and develop relations with the european union, but also, if they so wish, to have a long-term membership perspective.
president of the council. mr president, in our discussion before question time on this week's european council agenda, it was emphatically pointed out that the heads of government and of state of the member states of the european union will also be discussing the union's immigration policy this week. in this sense it is becoming more and more a community matter, because we believe that it would be very useful to have common guidelines and basic principles for immigration policy. but as i said in my original reply, member states look at their own agenda, for example, the number of legal immigrants and how much they are willing to take in. as regards the 'crossroads' clause to which the honourable member refers, in the context of the recent debate i described in detail how the presidency has worked hard to improve the efficiency of decision-making in the field of justice and home affairs, but we have not yet succeeded in this endeavour.
you mentioned, mr minister, that a directive was being drawn up to encourage or regulate the migration of highly qualified professionals. we have here in the european committee a policy of development cooperation which aims to improve the lives of those countries from which migrants come. are these policies and approaches consistent? we will invite skilled migrants into our countries, we will not allow them to create wealth in our countries, but we will use it to our advantage.
president of the council. mr president, first of all, it should be recalled that the commission has exclusive competence to make legislative proposals, so the council is not working on this directive, it is being prepared by the commission, and the commission has not yet submitted it to the legislative bodies. the question of the status of skilled workers is typically one of those issues which require a very holistic approach to european union immigration policy. on the one hand, because of its own needs, the union is also trying to recruit to some extent highly qualified people from developing countries, and on the other hand we must also recognize and acknowledge that it is detrimental to the development of developing countries themselves if skilled manpower leaves these countries. it is therefore important that these very sensitive issues are also discussed at union level and that they are also discussed with our partner countries, as was done in the two conferences held over six months between africa and the european union which dealt with these very complex issues of migration.
president of the council. mr president, it was not entirely clear what the honourable member was referring to, but as i have said in this debate, the regulation of the number of immigrants is a matter for the member states. since the immigration policy of one member state, through the principle of free movement within the union, also has an impact on other states, it is important that we are able to intensify our cooperation in this area. it is, of course, important to remember that due consideration must be given to the status of immigrants who have already been in the european union for a long time and who have thus established links and roots with their new place of residence.
president of the council. in may, the european parliament and the council adopted a decision establishing the 2007 equal opportunities year. the commission's task is to ensure that all forms of discrimination mentioned in article 13 of the treaty are addressed and treated equally. all stakeholders are involved in such activities. the objective of the theme year, as set out in article 2, is to increase awareness of rights related to equality and non-discrimination, to increase the participation of groups facing discrimination in society, to increase the appreciation of diversity and equality and to increase cohesion by eliminating stereotypes, prejudice and violence. the activities to be carried out to achieve the objectives of the theme year shall include meetings and events, information, promotion and training campaigns, and community or national surveys and studies. each member state is responsible for the activities to be organised in the coming months. in order to highlight the importance of the ey, an inaugural conference on the ey will be held in berlin under the chairmanship of the incoming german presidency. as regards the theme of the year for intercultural dialogue, i would like to point out that the commission submitted a proposal for a decision to the european parliament and the council in october last year. the preamble to the proposal for a decision provides that the experience gained from the activities organised in the european year of equal opportunities next year will be taken into account in the context of the intercultural dialogue year. the council's common position on the decision was adopted in mid-november and has been sent to the european parliament. the proposal for a decision gives priority to the implementation of projects and events related to the theme year by the member states and the commission. the proposal for a decision provides that special attention shall be paid to cooperation with the european parliament. the aim is to encourage the involvement of civil society and actors at european, national and local level, and the exchange of experience and best practice. the main target should be young people. the challenge is to bring intercultural dialogue into schools and educational institutions, into working life as well as into leisure, cultural and sports centres and civil society organisations.
president of the council. as i have said, mr president, the decisions and proposals for the establishment of the european year already include the principle that the experience and lessons learned from next year's european year and the events associated with it will be used in the preparations for the next european year. it is of course important that the whole of next year's year of intercultural dialogue be closely monitored and that efforts be made to improve the effectiveness of the activities so that they are as effective as possible from the very beginning of the year.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency continues to believe that a high-level dialogue between the council, the european parliament and the commission on the fight against terrorism is useful in promoting transparency and accountability in the implementation of the eu's counter-terrorism strategy. the last meeting held under the austrian presidency on 10 may was a demonstration of this commitment. as regards the allegation in the question that the invitation to the meeting was sent at the last moment, the presidency would point out that an official invitation was sent to the president of the european parliament on 10 april 2006. it is not the responsibility of the presidency to assess the reasons for the long delay in sending the invitation to the chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, but we are pleased that the chairman of the committee was able to attend the meeting. in line with its obligations under the strategy, finland sought to organise this high-level discussion during its presidency, but any possible dates were always cancelled at the end, before the invitation was sent, due to another important obstacle from one of the parties. the finnish presidency regrets that despite all the efforts made, the event could not be organised. we hope that the future presidencies will do better in this respect, because we must maintain regular contact with the european parliament on this important matter.
president of the council. mr president, as i said, we worked very hard to be able to organise this high-level dialogue, but unfortunately it did not happen in time. i'm sure that everyone in this room will understand that in today's world, this is also possible. if there are a few failures in trying to get all the key players to the same table, six months is easily a short period of time. as regards our discussion earlier today on the us ats system, as i mentioned, i understand that this was already mentioned in the papers of september 2005, which were also submitted to the european parliament, but this has not been raised as a major issue before.
president of the council. mr president, human rights and data protection issues have been central to all discussions in the formulation, design and implementation of european counter-terrorism policy. i have also often expressed in this chamber the council's view that counter-terrorism measures must also be implemented in compliance with human rights and the obligations of international treaties. this is, of course, also the starting point for the european union's own fight against terrorism. we must remember that european society is based on a very wide range of individual freedoms and we must be sensitive to the fact that, while defending and protecting this society and this way of life, we are not taking measures which are in fact destroying this society of individual freedoms.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the author of the question refers to the application of the general safeguard clause referred to in article 37 of the 2003 act of accession. in this connection, the council would draw the attention of the honourable member to the answer given to his oral question h-0815 this year. the applicant has certainly noted that it is for the commission to decide, on the basis of a legitimate request from a member state, on the safeguard measures which it considers necessary to respond to the request of a member state. it should be noted that last week an electricity cable link was opened between estonia and finland, linking the baltic and nordic electricity grids and thus also contributing to energy security in lithuania. this is also an important step in the development of european networks.
mr minister, article 4 of the accession protocol provides for a general safeguard clause until 1 december 2012. article 37 (1) of the treaty of accession provides for safeguard measures in the event of energy difficulties for a period of three years from the date of accession. for lithuania, this would mean until 1 may 2007. could the minister explain the compatibility of these legislative acts and the practical application of these acts? i would like a written answer.
president of the council. mr president, these safeguard clauses can therefore be applied if a member state makes such a request, if it is considered justified and if the commission considers that safeguard measures are necessary on the basis of such a request. but i repeat that it is for the commission to decide on the safeguard measures to be taken by the member states.
i'd like to ask the minister about the construction of nuclear power plants. as we know, each country in the european union decides for itself whether to build new nuclear power plants. finland is doing it and doing it well. with the reliability of nuclear power plants increasing every year and science and technology reaching new levels, is it not time for the european union to reconsider this issue and express a more positive attitude towards nuclear energy?
president of the council. mr president, this question is very much relevant to the general european energy debate. as the finnish presidency, and the council, has adopted the widely accepted view that decision-making on energy production methods is and will remain a matter for member states. this is also happening now. when we talk about nuclear power, we have member states that are currently building more nuclear power, member states that are unloading more capacity and everything in between. however, it is very important for the european energy market and for european energy security that we are able to create and strengthen an infrastructure which actually connects the european energy networks, and this work is still in its infancy.
president of the council. mr president, the accession treaties include provisions for certain nuclear power plants and, moreover, at eu level, special attention is paid to the safety of energy production methods. however, it is the responsibility of the national authorities to ensure that these safety provisions are also implemented. but this is a crucial point to consider.
i should like to ask a question concerning question 6.
president-in- office, my question is about lithuanian energy prospects. lithuania is planning to build a new nuclear power plant in ignalina. it will be a joint project involving poland, estonia, latvia and lithuania. those countries will not be able to do this before 2015. according to our previous agreements we have to close one of our blocks in 2009, and lithuania will suffer from energy shortages. do you, as the representative of the presidency, think it is possible to prolong the life of ignalina’s second block until 2015?
for the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission's proposal for a directive on the new version of driving licences, replacing the 1991 directive, addresses a number of important issues reducing the risk of fraud, ensuring the free movement of citizens, improving road safety. i would like to emphasise the importance of such a certificate for the free movement of citizens. there are over 100 different forms of driving licences in the eu with different periods of validity and different frequency of medical examinations for professional drivers. the free movement of persons also provides opportunities for the misuse of a driving licence: after having lost the right to drive in his own country as a result of an offence, an eu citizen can obtain a driving licence in another country. such unscrupulous driving behaviour is a threat to road safety across europe. it is therefore essential to implement the principle of the unity of the driving licence. as regards the period of application of the regulation, it is unusually long. the validity of a driving licence may be extended up to 15 years and replaced within 20 years of the entry into force of the directive. such deadlines therefore do reduce and distort the achievement of the objectives of the commission proposal to reduce the risk of fraud and improve road safety .
for the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following a number of tankers of the single-ship corps that have been wrecked off the french coast, experts from spain have concluded that the single-ship corps do not provide sufficient protection for ships, that improper inspection techniques are used and that the issue of special flags for those flags of countries that do not comply with eu safety requirements needs to be tackled more effectively. in 2002, the eu adopted a regulation setting double hull or equivalent design requirements for single hull tankers and requiring their gradual removal from eu waters. they must be replaced by much safer double-hulled vessels by 2015 at the latest. the regulation states that single-hull oil tankers are prohibited from flying the flag of an eu member state after the date of the ship's annual construction. the regulation also provides that no oil tanker, irrespective of the flag it flies, shall be allowed to enter ports under the jurisdiction of an eu member state after that date, except double-hulled oil tankers. in october 2003, a regulation came into force amending the 2002 regulation banning the transport of oil by single-hull tankers to and from ports under the jurisdiction of eu member states. the 2006 proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council proposes further amendments. it is proposed to extend the scope of the requirements for the transport of heavy petroleum products by vessels flying the flag of an eu member state by prohibiting the transport of heavy petroleum products by all single-hull vessels flying the flag of a member state, irrespective of the jurisdiction of the ports, offshore terminals or sea area in which they operate. it is proposed to ban the single-hull tankers altogether at eu level, while leaving third countries the choice of whether or not to accept the tankers in their ports. i would like to emphasise the issue of 'safe flags', i.e. the possibility of registering ships in countries where it is cheap and where compliance with technical safety and environmental standards is not required. in the event of an oil spill, it is very difficult to determine who owns the ship and who is the polluter. toxic pollution in côte d'ivoire is one example. i think that we should discuss the question of such registration separately in parliament. another important aspect is the qualifications of the ship's crew. a third of the third-country nationals on board eu-registered ships are employed and experts say that many accidents are caused by the skills of the workers. my country, lithuania, imports oil using a terminal in the baltic sea, so we are concerned about both the safety of ships and the environment.
mr president, i voted in favour of the 2007 budget of the european union. the rapporteur for the european parliament's budget, james elles, representing the united kingdom, certainly has his own vision of the european union's budget and how it is to be spent. i think that a large part of his efforts is the innovative nature of the 2007 budget, based on the 'value for money' principle. i am pleased that a compromise has been reached on the financing of the european union's common foreign and security policy, the application of the flexibility instrument, the protection of the external borders of the european union, and the financing of lifelong learning programmes. i am pleased that we will start the first year of the new financial perspective with the budget of the european union approved.
the author. the situation in fiji is very tense after another coup. i think the european parliament should respond strongly. four coups in 20 years is too much, it's not good for the people or the country. this has discouraged foreign investment, drastically reduced tourist flows, and stopped financial aid. the european union has invested heavily in education and political skills for all ethnic groups, but unfortunately it's not enough. so far, the coup has not claimed any human casualties. legitimate authority calls for peaceful acts of disobedience. her position is supported by influential church figures and the grand council of the church. the situation is controlled by the army, censorship is in place. the detention and interrogation of opposition representatives indicate that the situation may continue to deteriorate. the eu and our allies in the region should send a clear signal that the use of force will not be tolerated and that bloodshed must be avoided. i call on my colleague to condemn the use of force in fiji, to reject the hijackers, to support the opposition's call for the people of the country to demonstrate peacefully against the coup. it is essential that democratic elections in fiji, in line with international standards, based on the principle of equality between people irrespective of their ethnic origin, are held as soon as possible and that efforts to respect the rule of law and the principles of democracy are resumed.
