in writing. i voted against some of parliament's amendments on the application of the aarhus convention. i am of course in favour of as complete information as possible for the public. but i do not think that this information should lead to repeated legal actions by some ngos, whose representativeness has yet to be demonstrated. the general interest, if it is proved, must take precedence over often selfish considerations.
in writing. the charter is a good thing, a success, because it is applied in 35 countries. but this application is not very good, as this fifth report shows, which, incidentally, covers only three of its ten lines of action. i had tried to correct an omission in the charter by an amendment which ignores the fact that in many member states the owners of these small businesses, and especially the millions of spouses who work in them, are not covered by social insurance. since 1997, parliament has been calling for a framework status for these invisible workers. we have proposed an amendment to the 1986 directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment for women and men in selfemployment. the european commission is ignoring our requests. i regret this all the more because the report on which we are voting did not accept my amendment and because some strange procedure prevented me from representing it in plenary. but as the resolution refers to social security schemes to stimulate entrepreneurship, i hope that my suggestion can be taken into account in the implementation of the third line of action of the charter, which is better regulation and better legislation.
in writing. the failure of the constitutional treaty is less a problem of text than of context. from the outside, europe is seen as the political entity in the world where public freedoms, social rights and environmental protection are most fully realized. but, internally, our peoples are suspicious of an integration project for which the states refuse the means. the doubts, fears and national egos are not answered in the report from parliament. instead of tackling the problems of lack of growth, unemployment and tensions in the countryside and the towns, the commission and parliament are advocating dialogue, forums, in short, 'the talk'. dialogue, yes, but about what? questions that the political class cannot answer? the union lacks not only a concrete vision of the future but, above all, genuine statesmen. i voted for the report, however, because i did not want to confuse my voice with that of those who are opposed to a more integrated and united europe.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank mrs rothe for her work and her very strong commitment to renewable energy. my services have already started to prepare an impact assessment on an action in favour of heating and cooling from renewable energy sources. there is no doubt that the very complete and balanced report presented by mrs rothe will be very useful to the commission when preparing action in this new field. the international energy situation, our strong dependency on imports and the fight against climate change remind us of the urgent need to address the issues related to renewable energies. as you know, the commission intends to adopt a green paper on a secure, sustainable and competitive energy policy on 8 march. whatever you have seen to date, it is not the green paper. the green paper will be adopted on 8 march by the whole college, and there will be no backtracking from energy efficiency and from renewable energies. it will also show that all these measures are necessary to build security of supply, to fight climate change and to achieve environmental objectives, as well as to increase competitiveness. we will strive to achieve a balanced approach, but that does not mean backtracking; that is clearly not the way we would like to present it. however, there is still some time before the commission completes its work on this green paper. since 1997, the european union has been working towards the objective of 12% of renewable energy balance by 2010 but, to date, we have achieved only half of that goal. while we now have legislation on the promotion of electricity generation from renewable energy and on the promotion of biofuels, the production of heating and cooling from renewable energy – the third pillar of the renewable energy portfolio – lacks a specific strategy. without a vigorous development of renewable energy in the sector of heating and cooling, the overall objective of 12% renewable energy by 2010 will not be achieved. promoting heating and cooling from renewable energy will contribute to a number of important objectives: it will reduce our external energy dependency, it will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and it will create a european industry and promote local employment. it will therefore help us make progress towards the goals of the lisbon strategy. i would like to react to some of the issues raised by mrs rothe’s report. i agree that we should take practical steps to promote heating and cooling from renewable energy more vigorously. i can promise you that we will work hard to table a legislative proposal as quickly as possible and certainly before the end of this year, since that is already in the 2006 work programme. however, there is a need to take a different approach from earlier directives, because the key problems lie in market confidence and attitudes rather than costs. subsidiarity is another key issue. by nature, all these energies are decentralised and will, therefore, have to be implemented at local level. we have to tailor our legislation to take account of this. beyond a legislative instrument, it might be interesting to evaluate what progress could be made through standardisation. i am convinced that we should set the scene for industry to develop a market for this type of equipment. mrs rothe’s report contributes to the objectives of the european energy policy, and i very much welcome it. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i only have a minute, so i'll be brief. mrs. rothe, tireless fighter, thank you for this good work. i would like to give you an example of the potential. in upper austria, 1 500 houses are built each year. ten years ago, 1 200 of these were oil-fired. this year, seven oil heaters were installed in upper austria. everything else has been replaced by biomass, grids or pellet heating. this has created jobs for the forestry industry, for agriculture, for local plumbers, and even the oil traders are now pellets traders. we must take this forward, that is, we must transfer the good practice that exists locally and regionally to the european level. the commission has also been very active in this area. we in parliament will vote in that direction this afternoon. you'll have to do your job. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. that is what the citizens of europe expect of us, and you should not fall short of that standard. (applause from the centre)
madam president, it is rare for a draft directive to have aroused such passion. bolkestein has become the savior for some, the antichrist for others. but listening to some of the talks, it is evident that few people have actually read the original text. many opponents failed to realise that parliament had completely rewritten the so-called 'bolkestein' proposal. we are nevertheless asked to reject the directive. i suggest you don't. parliament must do its job as legislator, otherwise the european court of justice will impose its own, perhaps dangerous, case law. at present, 53 cases concerning the freedom to provide services are pending before the luxembourg court. the court is obviously waiting for clarification from the european legislator. if the european parliament did not do its job, the court would do its job. i call for a vote in favour of the gebhardt-harbour compromise, which both opens up the internal market in services, avoiding unfair and unfair competition, and safeguards the right of each state to defend its social model and public services in a non-discriminatory way. the bolkestein proposal was clumsy, it tried to bypass the community method of progressive harmonization by the principle of the country of origin. this principle is not enshrined in the treaties, even though it has been used to promote the free movement of goods as a result of the case law of the court of justice. however, services are provided by human beings, who must be protected against social dumping. the principle of the country of origin was a regulatory incentive, but the principle of the host country is an invitation to a stupid and brutal protectionism. the protectionism and trade barriers which have accumulated since 1957, especially in the founding states, must be abolished. the treaty of rome had set the objective of the free movement of services. we are far from that, even though our countries have become essentially service economies. not all services are exportable. public services will continue to be the responsibility of the state. in the case of market-based public services, the states have the right to define what they mean by services of general economic interest by regulating their organisation and financing. in some countries, the notion of public services is attempted to be deified without always considering whether public services are really services to the public. it is hardly acceptable that france, for example, should try to preserve its so-called public service contracts while french public and private companies are exploiting the markets of others. the balance achieved by the work of evelyn gebhardt, malcolm harbour, anne van lancker, marianne thyssen and a few others ensures that governments have control over services to citizens while avoiding discriminatory measures. i would like to conclude, madam president, by saying that the adoption of the amended directive will send bolkestein into oblivion. the new facilities, in particular through the single window, will make the union's internal market progress.
mr president, at this point tonight, i know it is politically incorrect to oppose a compromise painstakingly worked out by the leaders of two political groups. every craftsman of this compromise is shouting victory, which makes me uncomfortable because i don't like being the victim of a fraud market. my colleagues swear to me that the principle of the country of origin is implicit in the text of the compromise. the socialists boast that they killed him in the egg. for me, as for others, the principle of the country of origin and the history of european integration are closely linked. to reject it dogmatically is to go against what we have patiently built, to establish the principle of general mistrust. of course, this principle cannot be set above all others, we have framed and mastered it. we have made it clear that the law of the country of destination applies in all social matters. it is therefore extremely bad faith to continue to talk about an attack on the social acquis. we are told not to mix commercial services with non-commercial services. we have done so here too and have ended up diluting the directive which now has so many exceptions that it would be better to define what it applies to than the opposite. finally, the rules of the country of destination on the posting of workers have never been contested. what more do we want? the treaty of rome? the compromise on article 16 hardly confirms them. that's not progress at all! in these circumstances, i think it would be better to stick to the version of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection rather than deconstructing a directive until there is nothing left. mr president, i am not prepared to swallow all the corn to arrive at a solution which, under the pretext of defending the social acquis, actually defends the protectionist acquis and i shall vote accordingly.
mr president, it is time for you to assume your authority as president of the sitting! we are voting and it is not a question of reopening the debate! (applause) i would point out to mrs frassoni that consumer protection and social protection appear in various places in the text on which we are voting. so let's vote the compromise as it stands! (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i've made it clear to anyone who wants to hear it that i'm for a compromise, but i'm not willing to lend myself to a fool's bargain. i am in favour of the principle of the country of origin. the negotiators in my group have promised me that the new wording stipulating that member states respect the right of service providers to provide a service in a member state other than the one in which they are established is identical to this principle. if that's the case, i can vote for compromise. but the pse negotiators are loudly claiming that they have succeeded in killing this principle which they wrongly regard as responsible for all economic and social ills. the abolition of the country of origin principle in article 16 would create legal uncertainty for the claimant, who would have to navigate on sight under the supervision of the court of justice. furthermore, the safeguard clauses in paragraph 3 go beyond the case law and give the impression that one can require the application of the law of the country of destination on the basis of mere 'necessity', without a test of proportionality and non-discrimination. the resulting vagueness about these essential provisions leads me not to support certain parts of the compromise text on article 16. (explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. i have been working for women's rights and gender equality for over 40 years. so i cannot be accused of not being sympathetic to these concerns. if i am still questioning the need to create a european institute for gender issues, it is because a lot of time has passed since the idea of a gender institute was first put forward over 10 years ago and the priorities for how we can spend scarce money more effectively are different today. i can think of no better use of over 50 million euros in the interest of equal opportunities for women and men than to create an institute whose tasks and competences overlap with many national, european and global bodies. i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i supported the motion, which recalls that this parliament has already decided that this institute should be part of the european union agency for fundamental rights. that would be damage control, at least. i cannot agree with this report today because of the many inconsistencies and the lack of financial perspectives.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, a strategy without means is like napoleon without an army: powerless and ultimately useless. this is the threat to the lisbon strategy. the european union's weak financial prospects, unbalanced national budgets and a community budget that represents less than a third of the us budget deficit alone, are the union reduced to a mere gesture? the draft resolution which i drew up with my excellent colleague klaus-heiner lehne points to some interesting possibilities, even if our parliament sometimes refuses to face the truth. thus, the majority ignored the fact that much of the surplus growth in the united states in recent years was the result of the integration of more than ten million legal immigrants. we need a more generous european immigration policy. would such a policy be at the expense of developing countries? according to the united nations, the money that immigrants send to their families is more than double the amount of international development aid. the spectacular economic development of india, china, taiwan, hong kong owes much to the creation of businesses by former emigrants who returned home. the research europe is yet to be built. it is mainly the medium-sized companies that are not investing enough. one of the causes of this phenomenon is the excessive bureaucratic access to european funds. another is the lack of cooperation between companies and universities. the latter should be able to obtain more resources by promoting their research activities through patents, licences and investments in 'young start-ups'. in energy, europe must join forces with the other major consumers, the united states, japan, china and india, to counter the cartels and oligopolies that dominate the oil and gas sectors. in the face of a market dominated by a handful of producing countries, it is useless to seek salvation in the liberalization of the european market alone, especially when this liberalization leads to the creation of a few so-called european champions who will eventually share the market. the liberalisation of the us energy market was far from successful. the demographic change facing europe is not just a challenge for the financing of social security. the gain of ten, twenty years in life expectancy for generally well-educated and healthy populations is also a great opportunity. we must develop strategies for active ageing, retirement on a carte, integration of the elderly into society. europe must abandon its pessimistic discourse about the future and instead seize all new opportunities to build the dynamic and inclusive society that the lisbon strategy aims to achieve.
mr president, i wanted to speak initially to propose that amendment no 1 be withdrawn, which was ultimately rejected. i would like to propose to our liberal colleagues that we change one word in the oral amendment on amendment no 24. the term 'education' should be replaced by 'higher education', because we are talking about cooperation between research, the private sector and higher education. i think i can say that i am tabled this oral amendment on behalf of klaus-heiner lehne and mr lambsdorff, who also agrees.
in writing. i abstained in the vote on the grässle report on the reform of the financial regulation. i think that instead of increasing the responsibility of managers, which would have meant more flexibility and clearer rules, parliament is adding more complexity and bureaucracy. all this does not contribute to the effectiveness of community action, nor does it lead to better management of union funds. i know of no other public, and especially private, entity where 40% of the workforce is involved in financial management and control. the union will soon have more controllers than controlled.
in writing. i voted against the grech report because i do not agree with the question of the european parliament's seat being fixed in strasbourg and luxembourg being the place of work.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i fully understand the anger of italy and spain at what i would call german-french energy imperialism in europe. it is the german and french economies that pay the highest price for it. austria has electricity and gas prices that are 20% lower than those in germany because it has lower grid costs and because it has more competition in its market than the german market has. the answer to what has happened over the past weeks, mrs kroes and mr barroso, is not european champions. european energy champions would squeeze out even more money from our major industry and consumers, and from us as citizens, and pass it on to the shareholders. so the only answer is to have competitive markets, which have to be enforced by strong and independent regulators, strong competition authorities and full ownership unbundling.
mr president, commissioner, it is not necessary to say how much we are committed to our system of protected geographical indications and protected designations of origin, to their defence and respect, both within and outside the european union. the situation is that, after repeated reforms and, to my mind, too close to the common agricultural policy, producers in many of our regions can only survive thanks to the quality of their products and their know-how, which consumers are increasingly appreciating, fortunately, and are willing to pay fair prices for, thus contributing to the maintenance of jobs upstream and downstream and, therefore, to rural development. it is almost historic that the united states and australia have had the audacity to attack our regulations in this area at the world trade organization, which is a great success. since 1993, more than 700 food names have been registered. their market value is estimated at more than ten billion euros and, i should mention, amongst others, the tiroler speck, which is particularly dear to my colleague ebner, who gave me his two minutes to speak in this debate. fortunately, the relevant body of the world trade organisation came to the conclusion that our regulation did not contravene wto obligations. we only need to adapt it - by 20 april next, of course, so time is running out - to put third country nationals on an equal footing with union citizens as regards applications and opposition rights. i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf, and thank him for the excellent cooperation which has been established between the greens and the blacks in this parliament. i am glad that with him, our rapporteur, and with other members of our committee on agriculture and rural development, including our chairman, mr joseph daul, we have succeeded in agreeing on amendments which seek to clarify, clarify, simplify, while improving, through adequate control, the respect for this intellectual property of our farmers, one of the last raw materials of europeans. we want above all, by giving the commission a specific time limit of six months for examining applications for registration and four months for opposing them, to avoid delays which are harmful to the operators concerned. we want the community symbols, our logos, to be distinguished by specific colours and to prevent their use by third countries. we also want to ensure that in the event of the cancellation of the registration of a pdo or a pgi, it cannot be registered as a trademark for five years, in order to avoid any economic pressure on producers. i know that many colleagues have had many ideas, many demands to improve the legislation, but we call on the council - since time is short - to implement, at first, only the changes made necessary by the wto arbitration decision. as he said ... (the president withdrew the floor)
in writing. i voted against the resolution on the curitiba conference on biodiversity. parliament is making a grave mistake in mixing up biodiversity and genetic engineering. all the diversity of life is the result of changes in the genetic structure of all living organisms. those in europe who continue their retrograde fight against genetically modified agriculture do not want to know that it does not cause any harm to human health in the rest of the world! in 2004, nine million farmers cultivated nearly 90 million hectares of gmos in the eu-25; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of genetically modified organisms. europe is losing another battle.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, firstly i would like to thank mr chichester for the question. it comes at a good time. as a matter of fact, the austrian presidency was exactly eight hours old when the point was driven home to us that energy is a european problem, a problem for all of us, because at 8 a.m. on the morning of 1 january 2006, the gas conflict between russia, ukraine and moldova actually began. it became evident that we needed to address this problem, despite it not being entirely new. however, its importance has become evident, especially during the course of this year. it is quite clear that for europe, energy supply is a question of the highest importance. this is why the european council meeting tomorrow will deal with this matter as one of its priorities. we also convened an additional extraordinary council meeting of energy ministers, to which you have alluded, in order to prepare for the european council meeting in the best way possible. that meeting of energy ministers came up with very useful and helpful suggestions which will be discussed tomorrow and the day after. it also became evident that, in connection with the gas dispute between russia, ukraine and moldova, the question of energy supply is not only a question that we can discuss among ourselves. when i had the pleasure of reporting to the committee on foreign affairs yesterday it was very much stressed that this is a question of the foreign policy of the european union. this is because we need to cooperate with our partners and with our neighbours in order to take their problems into account. it is important for us to emphasise the political and economic stability of the transit country, for example. we also need to include countries of supply and consumer countries in our debates. this is why we have intensive relations in this connection with opec, russia and other important countries such as china and india. we are also active as regards international instruments. i will just mention very briefly the international energy agency, the international energy forums and euromed, which plays an important role. there are other important international agreements, such as for example the energy agreement with south-east europe. i hope, mr chichester, that we will get the agreement of this house very soon, as we hope to receive this before the ministers’ meeting in june. es gibt natürlich auch andere wichtige elemente zur sicherheit der energieversorgung, so z.b. die frage der diversifizierung unserer energiequellen, insbesondere hin zu heimischen energiequellen, insbesondere auch die frage der erneuerbaren energiequellen. aber auch die nachfragesteuerung einschließlich der verbesserung der effizienz der energienutzung ist in diesem zusammenhang von größter bedeutung. der rat betont regelmäßig gegenüber seinen partnern, dass auch ausreichende investitionen in infrastruktur und exploration entscheidend sind. aus diesem grund ist es auch für den rat von größter bedeutung, dass der beschluss des europäischen parlaments und des rates über transeuropäische energienetze bald angenommen wird, da die diversifizierung der versorgung und damit eine größere versorgungssicherheit ohne mittel für den ausbau des europäischen energienetzes nicht zu erreichen ist. konkret hat der rat, was die versorgungssicherheit betrifft, schon in der vergangenheit rechtsvorschriften angenommen, die ich jetzt auch aus zeitgründen nicht im einzelnen erwähnen möchte. ich verweise kurz auch auf die im jahr 2004 angenommene richtlinie über maßnahmen zur gewährleistung der sicheren erdgasversorgung. was nun ihre frage, herr abgeordneter, zu alternativen energiequellen betrifft, so ist der rat der auffassung, dass hier insbesondere zwei hauptkomponenten der energiepolitik zu erwähnen sind – ich habe schon kurz darauf bezug genommen: die frage der diversifizierung der brennstoffquellen und die energieeffizienz. wie heute bereits in der debatte gesagt wurde – energie war ja auch richtigerweise ein kernelement der debatte, die sie gerade abgeschlossen haben –, haben die mitgliedstaaten selbst über den energiemix zu entscheiden, den sie als ausdruck ihrer nationalen politik wählen wollen. welche entscheidung auch immer die mitgliedstaaten treffen, zur diversifizierung der brennstoffquellen gehört selbstverständlich auch – und das erscheint mir besonders wichtig – die diversifizierung der lieferländer, was importierte energieträger betrifft; insbesondere aber gehören hierzu erneuerbare energiequellen. der rat kann in diesem zusammenhang auch auf eine ganze reihe von instrumenten hinweisen, ich möchte sie nur ganz kurz und kursorisch erwähnen. was die diversifizierung der brennstoffquellen, insbesondere durch die nutzung erneuerbarer energien betrifft, so haben der rat und das europäische parlament schon im jahr 2001 eine richtlinie zur förderung der stromerzeugung aus erneuerbaren energiequellen angenommen. auch auf den richtlinienvorschlag des europäischen parlaments und des rates zur förderung der verwendung von biokraftstoffen oder anderen erneuerbaren kraftstoffen im verkehrssektor möchte ich in diesem zusammenhang hinweisen. im dezember des letzten jahres wurde mit dem europäischen parlament auch eine einigung über den entwurf der richtlinie über endenergieeffizienz und energiedienstleistungen erzielt, die hoffentlich – und wir bemühen uns darum – in den kommenden monaten angenommen werden kann. so viel zur frage der energieeinsparung. ich möchte auch darauf hinweisen, dass bereits im sechsten forschungsrahmenprogramm das programm „intelligente energie für europa“ hier einen wesentlichen beitrag leistet. auch das siebte forschungsrahmenprogramm sowie das derzeit diskutierte programm „intelligente energie für europa“ im rahmen des cip-programms wird eine angemessene und entsprechende priorität enthalten. es gibt auch maßnahmen im nichtlegislativen bereich, z.b. schon im vorjahr einen beitrag für die frühjahrstagung des europäischen rates 2005 durch die energieminister. der rat prüft derzeit mit großem nachdruck und hoher aufmerksamkeit den aktionsplan für biomasse, der eine hohe priorität für uns besitzt. herr abgeordneter, zum abschluss möchte ich noch auf ihre frage „kyoto und die zeit nach 2012“ betreffend die sicherheit der energieversorgung und die wettbewerbsfähigkeit der europäischen union hinweisen und sagen, dass diese auswirkung nach unserer einschätzung eine grundsätzlich positive sein kann. besonders wichtig erscheint mir die feststellung, dass wir davon überzeugt sind, dass sich eine gut konzipierte umweltpolitik positiv auf das wachstum und auf die beschäftigung auswirkt. maßnahmen zur förderung von energieeffizienz führen zu ökologischen innovationen und umwelttechnologien, und die nachfrage nach solchen innovationen wächst weltweit stetig. hier entstehen auch chancen für unsere volkswirtschaften. mit der diversifizierung der energiequellen, insbesondere der förderung erneuerbarer energiequellen wollen wir ebenfalls einen beitrag zur sicherheit der energieversorgung und zugleich zur eindämmung des klimawandels sowie zur steigerung der wettbewerbsfähigkeit der eu insgesamt leisten. (beifall)
member of the commission. mr president, the previous debate on the commission’s work programme focused a lot on energy. i am very grateful for this and for the question that was put to the commission and made this debate possible. in a way, the green paper on a european strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy has given the answers as to how we should proceed in addressing the challenges set out in your question. we should also realise that this is a global challenge: the tightness of supply and demand, climate change, import dependency and investment needs in the energy sector are all global challenges. the response from the european union is a common energy policy. we have significant support from citizens. in a recent opinion poll, 47% of european citizens supported action at european level. we received a lot of support from many member states and national parliaments after the publication of the green paper. it is clear that the main added value of this green paper lies in this common approach where we stress that security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability cannot be separated in our energy policy. all three should interact. at the same time, it is also clear that we cannot find a silver bullet and there is no silver bullet. it means that in the area of energy policy we should focus on a set of measures in specific areas. firstly, it is important for security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness to provide a really competitive, open, transparent eu internal market. that is also crucial for security of supply. we provide for some actions that really provide for not only stronger competition but also cross-border trade: cross-border energy transactions. this is an extremely important area and i expect support from this house in the future on these issues. the second issue, which is extremely important – as the president-in-office indicated – is solidarity. the union is strong when there is solidarity. solidarity means, firstly, being ready for extreme situations; secondly, it involves the solidarity mechanism and, thirdly, it involves a lot of information on what is happening on the energy markets. i agree that diversity is the most important issue, but to use this diversity in the best possible way we need a lot of information and a lot of transparency. we provide for such measures by revisiting the oil stocks directive, placing more focus on the security of supply of electricity and gas and looking for new mechanisms that really correspond to the needs of our citizens, who would like to know that should an extreme situation arise, we have a mechanism and reserves in place that could be used in such a situation. then there is the issue of the energy mix. that should be the responsibility of each member state – it is a question of subsidiarity. however, we know that action in one particular member state influences all the other member states, at least the neighbouring member states. that means that we should take action taking into account our neighbours’ energy policies and try to boost the best possible actions. a strategic eu energy review, which would allow us to revisit these issues continually, is necessary to provide the best approach in terms of each state’s energy mix. energy efficiency and renewable energy development will definitely be on the rise in deciding an energy mix. however, at the same time, i also believe that the nuclear energy that is now in the energy mix will be used in many member states. it is important, however, to ensure that this energy is used in a safe and sustainable way. i also believe in the diversity that could bring us new technologies and in clean coal, carbon sequestration and so on. we now have a good example with the shell and statoil project involving carbon sequestration and post-combustion. this is not a demonstration project: for the first time, a real industrial project involving 860 megawatts is bringing new possibilities for a diversification in the energy mix that corresponds to the objectives of our energy policy. some people have indicated that there is not enough focus on energy efficiency. i disagree, as there is a lot of emphasis on it. parliament has debated the green paper on energy efficiency. we will propose a very ambitious european action plan on energy efficiency, which will place a lot of emphasis on transport. however, the focus on energy efficiency will be continued in all member states through their national action plans and this is extremely important. regarding technology, i mention just one example: europe is able to provide for new technologies, but we should use all the possibilities in a coherent way. i believe that the european strategic energy technology plan really could make a difference. last, but not least, the areas i should like to bring to your attention are international. the best response for security of supply is not only diversity, but also lies in global, transparent and competitive gas and oil markets. this is the vision that could provide the necessary diversity. for this to happen, we need to stabilise the countries that have gas and oil resources. we should build infrastructure that allows us to bring more gas from different regions in the world, because only in this way can we provide security of supply in gas and oil. we should promote our vision of the market to the near neighbourhood. the energy community should be expanded. tomorrow, the european council will have the opportunity to debate these issues. i believe that the momentum created by the green paper for establishing a european common policy in energy will be continued. i am very grateful for the debate and i look forward to working with this house towards establishing a european energy policy that corresponds to the basic needs of our citizens.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, we live in an increasingly energy-hungry world. the big consumers, the americans and the europeans, cannot deny the chinese, the indians and others the right to aspire to our standard of living, to consume more energy. with global demand growing, consumer countries must ally themselves against cartel markets in order to influence price formation. in such a context, energy savings and improved energy efficiency are the top priority. the international energy agency has calculated that if computer manufacturers were required to reduce standby power to one watt instead of the current ten watts, they could save the equivalent of twenty 1,000-megawatt power plants. the use of renewable energy sources must be increased: brazil produces 700 million litres of ethanol from the sugar industry, mauritius saves 20 000 tonnes of oil by burning fibre waste in its thermal power stations, sweden will require all service stations to offer biofuels and fiji is running diesel engines based on copra oil. however, renewable energy cannot fully replace conventional sources of energy. it will take technological leaps for solar, hydrogen cell, etc. even wind energy, for which europe has a significant offshore potential, requires substantial investments in network security. the world cannot give up coal and nuclear energy any time soon. these choices are the responsibility of the states, which must decide freely on their energy mix. europe will need to invest more in research on energy efficiency, renewables, carbon sequestration, clean coal, nuclear safety and fusion. the union will have to put in place a more united energy policy. it must achieve its internal market by avoiding a division of markets in favour of oligopolies. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the spring council must decide: europe without a common energy policy will be nothing but a soft power.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not tomorrow, the heads of state and government will meet for an energy summit. is this going to be about energy? i'm not afraid of it! tomorrow berlusconi will put on a big show, tomorrow enel will announce that they will take over suez. that means it will be a show for the italian election campaign, and villepin and chirac will use the whole thing to once again make themselves national heroes in a broken-down french government. the commission has already done so. what is the real question in the eu single market? as it stands today, it is the greatest economic mismatch europe has ever seen. enel is exploiting the italian consumers. endesa is looking for spanish consumers. suez is looking for belgian consumers, e.on is looking for german consumers. and now the debate is to be held on whether we have national champions or - as mr barroso says - even bigger european champions who will then dominate their markets even more and put consumers and competitiveness in europe even more at risk. no, that's not the question! the question is: are we finally getting through politically to regulate properly, to regulate independently, and to separate the networks from the rest? transport policy must be central to energy policy. unless that's a central element, all these papers are paper tigers. the most important thing we have to contribute with our policies is long-term objectives, renewable energy, efficiency, co2 targets - otherwise there is no investment security. what i lack in this debate is a new method. we have not yet succeeded in achieving good interaction at all levels. that means we need new partnerships. and what is commission president barroso doing in his typical elephant-in-the-pot shop way? it puts the energy that most divides citizens across europe at the centre of the debate! can we do anything more politically absurd than what mr barroso is doing now through the press?
mr president, this is an oral amendment to amend recital c. it's about replacing the terms, which i'll read in english because i only have this version: ... environmental protection by environmental sustainability ... i believe those are the words of the law. the text would therefore read as follows:... whereas there are three main objectives for eu energy policy: security of supply, competitiveness and environmental sustainability.
mr president, i agree with my two colleagues who complained that the questions of the members were not answered in time. i believe that you are the guardian of our rules of procedure and i ask you to ensure that the commission provides a timely answer to our questions. the case i am referring to is that of the luxembourg cable companies, who approached the commission in march 2005 and were referred by one commissioner to another commissioner, who gave them, in september 2005, an answer which contradicted the answer given to my parliamentary question three months late. mr president, if we are to legislate better, the commission's legal services should work accordingly and you should ensure that our regulation is fully applied.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on the publicity of council meetings because i believe that this is a false problem. by forcing the council to work behind the camera, we will end up with formal exchanges and negotiating corridors. all negotiations require a degree of confidentiality.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, during the first debate on the services directive, a british colleague said: 'fritz bolkestein is well and alive and living mainly in france'. my group wishes former commissioner bolkestein a very happy retirement. we hope he will retire peacefully, but his directive is dead. and we will now have a gebhardt-mccreevy directive. of course, there are still the bolkestein orphans. the bolkestein directive had become an easy scarecrow on the far left and among some notorious anti-europeans, the symbol of an anti-social europe. they find it difficult to accept that the bolkestein directive is dead. others have the same problem, particularly some ultra-liberal singers, and i am thinking here of those who saw in the commission's initial proposal a kind of passphrase for a totally deregulated europe. i am thinking in particular of the french baron who, to modernise, speaks american when speaking on behalf of the big business. but fortunately the european parliament has done its job and a qualified majority of the parliament has rewritten the text presented at first reading on the commission's original proposal, to make it a decent instrument for the free provision of services, while avoiding any form of social dumping. the commission was right to follow the european parliament's position broadly, even if there was some hesitation last week. president barroso has taken his troops back into his hands. of course, we're going to have to stay vigilant and we're going to have to ask for some additional clarifications. that said, the austrian presidency of the union would also be well advised to ensure that the council follows parliament so that we can quickly arrive at the decent workers directive which we all want.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the honourable members for their remarks. i shall reply to some of the specific questions. on the excluded sectors, it is important that we all remember that the provisions of the treaty continue to apply to those services outside the scope of the directive. the college of commissioners will debate the question of health within the next couple of weeks and the scope of the initiative will be decided at that time. mr kyprianou will have the lead and mr špidla and myself will be submitting our ideas to him. while i cannot be more specific today, i can say that at a minimum it will cover the issue of patient mobility and reimbursement for health expenditure. we will have to wait to see what mr kyprianou will bring forward. mr harbour is being a little pessimistic about the reception given to this revised proposal. it is true that there has been a degree of negative comment in some of the media, but views will change with time and when people have had more time to digest what was voted on by parliament. i have vigorously sold the modified proposal to the council of ministers. at a meeting of the council of ministers on sunday, 12 march 2006, i vigorously defended the intended revised proposal. i told the ministers that i intended to follow what the european parliament had agreed in the main areas. while some ministers may have been somewhat sceptical initially, at the end of the meeting most were quite pleased as to what the outcome was going to be. the fact that the european council last week overwhelmingly endorsed the vote in parliament shows that the debate has moved on considerably. it is a good proposal. mr harbour outlines many of the initiatives and the good points in it and we should be prepared to sell it as a very important step in the services area and as a good day for europe when this particular directive is adopted. as i have said in committee meetings – and recently i attended a meeting of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection – it is important to realise that the previous commission’s proposal was never going to see the light of day as it was drafted. so those who defended the original proposals would have to recognise the political reality: it was never going to become a piece of legislation. what i as commissioner and the college of commissioners recognised was the political reality that we could not keep trumpeting how brilliant the proposal was while knowing in our hearts that it was going to remain on the shelf. we adopted the pragmatic approach of saying that we could see whether we could get a broad agreement among the members of the european parliament from the major groups because, if we could succeed in doing that, we would have a better chance of seeing the revised proposal through the council of ministers. in the meetings of the council of ministers that i attended there were as many divisions as there were in the european parliament. so i think parliament has clearly shown the way. now that we have a revised proposal, we all should be prepared to sell it and to recognise that it is a major step forward. some might describe it as an incremental step forward, but a major step forward it is. it will be of considerable benefit to the economy of europe, because what is at issue here is galvanising the european economy to be able to sustain the kind of growth rates that would deliver the number of jobs that are so necessary. in my opinion the modified services proposal will do that. given the broad consensus that has been reached on the most difficult points in this proposal, i am certain that the council of ministers will want to work closely with the european parliament to try to reach an early agreement. we in the commission will do all we can to facilitate an early final agreement on the text. if everybody maintains an open and constructive approach, we can steer this important proposal to a successful conclusion. (applause)
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the discussion we had, and allow me to touch on some of the points that were raised in the discussion. in the debate which has been going on for some time between the social partners and the representatives of the member states, and indeed in parliamentary debates, the view has been crystallised that the directive is the appropriate text, that there is no urgent reason for it to be substantially revised in legislation, but that its practical application presents a number of problems. during the debate on the services directive, parliament was promised that the commission would summarise the commission's practice and the luxembourg court's observations in its communication. it is quite obvious, and i think this is true of every system of law, that the law should be used only in accordance with the purpose for which the legislators have formulated it. the posting of workers directive is a directive designed to protect workers during their posting, to ensure that they have adequate rights and to prevent social dumping, to prevent their exploitation and to prevent them from being forced to accept inadequate social standards and thus becoming unfair competition for the workers of the host country. this is the purpose of the directive and this was our decisive consideration when formulating the communication strategy. of course, the directive is not intended to create artificial barriers, and each of these barriers, each of the administrative procedures, must be considered in this light: is it necessary and necessary to increase the protection of workers? if it is, it's in accordance with the directive. if it's not, it's not. i will give a typical example: it is certainly necessary for the protection of workers to be protected also by means of recorded documentation, but we can certainly imagine that some documentation is unnecessary in this respect. and that was one of the questions that was addressed in the communication. a further issue that did not relate directly to this communication but was related to the further development of the services directive and to service issues in general was raised in several speeches. a question of social services in the public interest has arisen. i would like to say that the communication on this subject is already in principle ready and we expect it to be formulated by the end of april. this communication will clarify some legal questions of principle, since the court's judgments need to be interpreted accurately and reliably, and will also suggest some other procedures that can be adopted in the further development and elaboration of the public service policy concept. ladies and gentlemen, i think that the case of the services directive and the related communication and subsequent negotiations and follow-up are an example of the extremely fruitful cooperation between the commission and parliament in very difficult parts of our legislation. ladies and gentlemen, just one more remark, my colleague charlie mccreevy has already mentioned it, yes, we anticipate that some new legislative proposals will be formulated related to the health sector, in particular the movement of patients in the health system.
mr president, i am surprised that the austrian presidency of the union has not taken a position on this very important communication from the commission. if we listen to chancellor schüssel, he is praising the compromise reached by the european parliament, and i would be very happy to know whether the austrian presidency will now do its utmost to ensure that the council adopts this new position of parliament and the commission.
mr president, commissioner, i have tabled a minority position in accordance with rule 48 of our rules of procedure and i shall not be voting for this draft. i would like to thank mrs prets for her work. i'll give you the reasons for my position. the project to designate each year a european capital of culture has, at the time of its creation, aroused enthusiasm and the desire to stand out from the crowd, the awareness that culture is an asset and a value. for a decade now, the commission and parliament have been trying to give the project a new impetus, but they are doing so with the same means as those which are strangling the european project in general. instead of rebuilding the enthusiasm of the beginning, with the citizens who were supposed to identify with the project, the commission and parliament have become judges. in my amendments i proposed that the member states should be given the task of designating the european capital of culture according to their own criteria. this would have encouraged them to shoulder their responsibilities. instead of strengthening subsidiarity to build european identity, an identity which is constituted by our diversity, the institutions now act as the masterminds: they dictate, select, judge, without, however, bearing the cost of their decisions because the union's financial participation remains low. the bureaucracy stands as a bulwark between the initiatives on the ground and, commissioner, i can only hope that the future jurors will be more conscientious than those who judged the luxembourg 2007 project without even having been present, without having been aware of the extension project to the greater region and without realizing that the luxembourg proposal to choose sibiu in romania as a partner city was going to become a cutting-edge proposal. culture is not just about the event. the cultural capital project should be more than a long fireworks display of events and, to ensure continuity, i had proposed that a network of cultural capitals be set up with the support of the commission. instead, we are now witnessing the parody of a network that mixes some of those who have been legitimately appointed with those who have arrogated that title to themselves. it is time to finally protect the title of european capital of culture.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. europe needs a new energy and transport policy. mr schüssel, it is only now that we will see whether the decision to increase energy efficiency by 20% and to use 15% of renewable energy sources is a real breakthrough. i believe that the most important thing is that we need a different transport and energy culture. what do i mean? if we really want to be efficient, we need an alliance with the craft industry and the banks to finally move forward with the building stock. we need an alliance with the big cities to make our cities more livable again, and we need less traffic, less oil for our mobility. i do not think this approach reflects this sufficiently, because the commission continues to rely too heavily on large groups rather than on the alliance with the smes and the alliance with the citizens. i have three specific questions for you, mr schüssel. firstly, in the field of energy research: how do you intend to explain to the austrian citizens and to austrian smes that we will spend or intend to spend five times as much money on nuclear energy as on renewable energy in the framework programme for research? and how do you intend to conduct a nuclear debate in austria and in europe when mr barroso has deleted the word 'risk' from the green paper on nuclear energy? a debate free of ideology, mr barroso, is a debate in which we discuss the risks involved in nuclear matters! mr schüssel, you are responsible for ensuring that we have an objective debate, and you cannot simply retreat to national independence.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, today is a day of remembrance. we should remember the thousands of people who have died and will die and the hundreds of thousands of people who suffer as a result of the accident at chernobyl. despite 20 years having passed, citizens and policy-makers are not well-informed about the extensive consequences of the disaster. the nuclear lobby stated last week in european voice that only 50 people died as a result of chernobyl. the international atomic energy agency in vienna spoke about 4000 deaths up to the beginning of last week, and had to revise this figure upwards under pressure from new independent studies, one of these commissioned by our colleague mrs harms. what are the political lessons to be learnt from chernobyl? first of all, we need more dignity. victims of chernobyl have faced considerable difficulty in getting recognition. the victims deserve dignity. they should not have to fight constantly against those who seek to suppress or to deny their suffering. secondly, we need absolute transparency – glasnost – on the real consequences of the accident. the international atomic energy agency, a un pro-nuclear biased agency, must no longer be allowed to interfere and suppress studies from the world health organisation on the health impact of radiation. we therefore have to end the 1959 agreement between the international atomic energy agency and the world health organisation as provide in article 12 of that agreement. the same is true for euratom – and i thank mr rübig of the ppe-de group who, in the committee on industry, research and energy, has taken the initiative of raising the issue of putting an end to euratom. this agency cannot be a pro-nuclear agency and be independent on related health issues. thirdly, we need absolute transparency on the plans of the nuclear industry. today 450 nuclear reactors produce 2.5% of world energy and 6% of european energy demands. if nuclear energy is the answer to security supply and to climate change, that percentage would need to rise from 2.5 to 30, 40, 50 or 60% of the mix. we are not speaking about one reactor here and one reactor there. we are speaking about 4000, 5000, 6000 or 7000 reactors. that is what the nuclear industry wants because we do not have plutonium. that means fast breeders, enrichment, retreatment. do we want this risk to be taken in a world where accidents in the nuclear chain cannot be excluded, where al-qa’ida and other terrorists lie in wait, where proliferation is revealed in the iran crisis? societies must learn. societies survive only if they learn the lessons from history. now is the time for decision. (applause from the verts/ale group)
member of the commission. mr president, the european investment fund industry is re-inventing itself: cross-border competition is taking root; fund managers and service companies are merging; distribution systems are opening up and new products are being offered to retail investors. faced with this and with the prospect of profound change, does the ucits directive offer an adequate framework for the continued success of the european fund market? this, without a doubt, is a crucial question for policymakers. much lip-service has been paid to the need for a vibrant and dynamic asset management business to provide a secure and profitable home for long-term savings of european households. now is the time to start translating these fine words into action. the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs is a very incisive and balanced assessment of the main challenges before us. it clearly identifies the challenges that need to be addressed. the commission subscribes to the vision that informs parliament’s report, namely to build on the solid foundations laid down by the existing directive and not to jettison product harmonisation. this has served us well to date. we need to try to make it more relevant to context of modern financial markets. the work of the commission and the committee of european securities regulators on the clarification of ‘eligible assets’ is vital in this respect. a draft proposal for implementing legislation will soon be communicated to parliament. this is serious and promising work. let us give it a chance before reading the last rites to product harmonisation. beyond better implementation of existing rules, there will be a need to give those involved in the fund industry greater freedom of movement to enable them better to exploit commercial opportunities of the integrated fund market. the emphasis should be on concrete, sensible, targeted changes, based on close contact with the market and informed by a strong commitment to making markets work for the end investor. many important improvements can be introduced without taking an axe to the ucits directive. the report provides a very clear steer on the areas where change can be most beneficial: simplification of the notification procedure; measures to facilitate cross-border fund mergers and pooling. the onus will now be on the commission to come forward with solutions. where legislative adjustment is needed to give effect to new single market freedoms, these changes could incorporate the possibility for adoption of technical implementing measures. another theme that features strongly in the report is regulatory arbitrage between different families of investment products. we do not have the full picture yet. we need to recognise the existence of different institutions and risk features. however, we have to monitor carefully how different products are sold to retail investors. this leads us to the disclosure area. i take note of the strong message from the european parliament on the simplified prospectus for ucits. we should not conclude that the experiment has failed and that we should move on. on the contrary, the fund market has become a more diverse and complicated place. there is an even greater need for effective and comparable risk and costs disclosures. we take to heart the strong message of the european parliament on this issue. we will try to remedy the shortcomings of the simplified prospectus. outside the ucits box, we are looking at some of the new asset classes: private equity and hedge funds. these are increasingly powerful players in european financial markets. they are driving change right across the investment fund industry as traditional fund managers learn from these techniques and strategies. we do not need an eu overlay to national regimes for the oversight of these industries. however, we need a sophisticated regulatory engagement with these important players. we need to understand the context in which they operate and whether there are useful improvements that can be made to help them to operate in the european environment. how do we move on from here? we will give the fullest consideration to the views set out in parliament’s report. we will critically analyse the forthcoming recommendations of industry expert groups on alternative investments and efficiency enhancements. we will continue to test different scenarios for ucits revision from a cost-benefit perspective and we will reach a firm view on the types of improvement that are most urgently needed. this will be presented in a white paper to be published in the autumn, accompanied by a comprehensive impact assessment. we will immediately set about translating these ideas into concrete initiatives. the commission believes that the ucits green paper and the responses to it – including parliament’s report – have underlined the importance of measured but effective action in this area. this debate and the follow-up actions have helped to clarify where further action at eu level will be most useful. we are now well poised to begin the task of translating these ideas into effective solutions.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, two essential elements must be taken into account when dealing with the question of investment funds in the european union. the first is to appreciate the pioneering role of collective investment schemes in the construction of a single market for financial services, a project which unfortunately remains unfinished. the second is to take account of the decisive role that collective management now plays for all customers of financial services, that is to say virtually all citizens of the union. the european legislation on investment funds, which has been in place for more than 20 years, has largely proved its worth. we have a product label which is recognised at european and world level, and our duty is above all to promote it. moreover, it is not so much the current legislative framework as the divergences in the interpretation and implementation of directives by the member states that cause the most problems. since the commission knows very well where the problem lies, i am surprised that it has not used its powers to ensure the correct transposition of legislation, particularly where the effective functioning of the sector is hampered by badly-grown protectionism, and you have done very well, madam commissioner, in recognising that the ball is in the commission's court. i also call on the regulators in the cesr to act now in the spirit of the 2001 directives and not wait for legislative changes. but i'm not closed to any evolution. the rapporteur has already explained that several legislative amendments seem to be necessary. they relate, for example, to a new simplified notification procedure, the simplified prospectus, or the cross-border use of pooling techniques. the report also calls for the establishment of a european passport for management companies, but considers that it would be premature to do the same for the depositary function. this brings me to a fundamental point: any progress in the field of passports requires, first of all, an organization of surveillance which is precise and unquestionable. how can we ensure that the risk-free supervision of an institution, for example, established in ireland or london, whose funds are deposited in luxembourg, is properly organised? the first difficulty is that nobody will feel fully responsible unless the supervisory architecture expressly provides for it, and in this context the delegation system still has its day. as regards the question of eligible assets, i believe that we must be open to the evolution of products on the market, but we must not lose sight of the imperative of protecting investors. mr president, let me end by agreeing with what the rapporteur has said on the amendments by the socialist group. we will not vote for them and i regret that all our efforts to find good compromises have not been appreciated.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, i would first like to congratulate our rapporteur on his excellent work. as you know, my country, luxembourg, is in favour of multilingualism, perhaps in more than one way. it is a country which does not insist on its own national language, luxembourgish, and where people do not hesitate to speak german, french and english. it is a country that is careful not to overemphasize the status of its own language in its actions. in a way, multilingualism is the best way to promote european unity, it is the best way to promote mutual understanding. but multilingualism is also a sign of our diversity, and the disappearance of languages spoken in a limited territory should be a cause for concern. we must ensure that the languages still spoken have the means to survive, even if we include them in a multilingual concept, otherwise we will not have the possibility of understanding each other. the commission's action to encourage the learning of the language of the neighbour is very welcome. this approach should lead us to promote spoken languages and also to take action to understand our fellow citizens. mr president, i do not hide from you that i have some concerns about the future of our european schools. we know that our civil servants, who are increasing in number, are often called upon to travel, and we are in the year of mobility. we should therefore provide for the school system in general in all european countries, and ensure greater accessibility to multilingualism in particular.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think mr watson's idea of putting this question on the agenda is excellent. it is a shame that taiwan, the only chinese country with a democratic system, is even excluded as an observer in the world health organization. parliament is well advised to deal with this issue and to let the whole world know that we believe that health is a human right and that no country in the world should be excluded from the deliberations of the world health organization. (applause from the centre right)
mr president, like my colleague, renate sommer, i can only express my deep dissatisfaction with the common position which has been submitted to us for second reading. this is a typical example of a missed opportunity, especially by the commission, to follow the reasonable position adopted by parliament at first reading, and this is despite the fact that mr barroso is constantly beating our ears with arguments in favour of more subsidiarity, less bureaucracy and so on. the attempt to impose nutritional profiles on consumers without any scientific evidence is both unacceptable and reckless. mr schnellhardt has illustrated this well. as chairman of the parliament's wine intergroup, i must stress the excessive nature of the total ban on any claim on alcoholic beverages above 1.2%. not only is wine subject to specific community regulations, but there is very strong scientific evidence that wine, consumed in moderation, for example two or three glasses a day, is beneficial for health. it is, among other things, an effective preventive against cardiovascular disease, cancer and dementia, which the commissioner and his services royally ignore. the compromise worked out by mrs renate sommer, to whom i am grateful, is only the lesser of two evils. i can only deplore the lack of understanding shown by the council and the commission on this matter and the consequences of their obstinacy, particularly on employment. to give the council and the commission one last chance to reverse incomprehensible positions which could jeopardise conciliation and the objectives set by the lisbon strategy, we, together with mrs klass, have tabled an amendment which excludes wine and beer from the scope of article 4 (3), so as not to damage sectors which have been part of our cultural and food heritage for millennia.
in writing. after the dismal episode of the services directive, the new challenge to the country of origin principle, this time concerning vat on services, would be another step in the wrong direction. the implementation of the ideas contained in the karas report would have negative and dangerous repercussions. the commission and many countries in the council would like the place of consumption to be decisive for the provision of services, not the place from which the service is provided. the abandonment of the principle of country of origin would create a complex, bureaucratic, uncontrollable and therefore impractical system. the inclusion of the place of consumption is contrary to the principles which until recently governed the vat system applicable at community level. member states need stability and predictability to manage their public finances. while community legislation on e-commerce, for example, has been in place for a very long time, it is unreasonable to want to upset everything. i therefore voted against the karas report.
in writing. i could not resign myself to voting in favour of the amended financial perspective. even if parliament's negotiators have managed to secure an additional €2 billion over seven years, the gap between european ambition and the sad budgetary reality is glaring. while the identified needs for the transeuropean networks are 18 billion, we are planning 7.2 billion. for galileo, the identified needs are 2.5 billion, the planned appropriations are 900 million euros. the smart part of the cap, rural development, has seen its appropriations cut by 50%. research, the lisbon strategy, social policy - in short, all the main policies are being held back. europe will not progress with an annual budget of barely a third of the us military budget alone.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, we do not miss any opportunity to defend human rights and the great democratic principles here, but when it comes to taiwan, this defence is of variable geometry. let us not forget that taiwan is the only one of the four major chinese societies in asia where there is both democracy and respect for human rights. in the people's republic of china, there is no democracy or respect for human rights; in hong kong, there is respect for human rights but no democracy and in singapore, there is democracy but no respect for human rights. the joint resolution under consideration, however, goes far beyond the usual diplomatic squabbles. our demand for the recognition of observer status for taiwan in the world health organization is a matter of public health of paramount importance. it concerns both the 20 million people on the island and the international community as a whole, including us. given the challenges - among which i will mention only the dangers of epidemics that await us - this demand is a strict minimum. i call on my colleagues to assess the scope of our joint resolution and to adopt it despite the socialist reversal at the last minute. i would have appreciated more firmness on this matter from our socialist colleagues. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the last few years, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the last few years.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to express my gratitude to the committee on culture and education, in particular to mrs hennicot-schoepges, and to the other committees involved, for all the valuable comments on and amendments to the commission’s proposal concerning the european year of intercultural dialogue. i am very glad that the european parliament shares the commission’s view on the importance of intercultural dialogue and the priority it should be given in the european union. the commission welcomes the majority of the amendments. the commission is particularly sensitive to the call for strong cooperation with civil society and to the emphasis on the role of education. we also applaud the emphasis on the contribution of different cultures and expressions of diversity to the heritage of the member states, as well as to european identity. we are very much in favour of ensuring continuity with the european year of equal opportunities for all in 2007. the commission is also in favour of a reference – preferably in a recital – to the fact that intercultural dialogue embraces dimensions related to religions and beliefs. however, the commission would like to express some concerns relating to a couple of the amendments. firstly, we cannot subscribe to limiting the resources for the communication and information campaign to eur 2 million. experience gained from previous european years shows that these campaigns are crucial for achieving the awareness-raising objectives, and evaluation reports have always pointed to scarcity of resources as an issue in this respect. the commission could show some flexibility vis-à-vis its original proposal of a eur 4.5 million budget, but certainly not on such a drastic cut. another financial issue is the level of co-financing of the actions at national level, which an amendment proposes to increase to up to 80%. as already stated, due to the limited budget of the year, this change would significantly reduce the number of events that could be co-financed, as well as the commitment of partners at national level. the original proposal for 50% co-financing is the standard formula which has been retained for all previous european years. a number of amendments introduce a discrepancy between the geographical scope of the year, which is limited to the european union, and some new objectives and actions to be carried out with respect to third countries. the commission proposed to concentrate the specific instrument on the year of intercultural dialogue within the european union, while committing itself to developing a parallel effort for the dialogue in, and with, third countries on the basis of external relations instruments. some amendments include problematic references to several very concrete actions. the commission is of the opinion that the year should be a bottom-up process, where projects and initiatives come from our partners, in particular from civil society. given the limited number of initiatives which can be supported, the introduction of references to precise actions within the legal basis would hamper the creativity of our partners and lead to implementation difficulties. last, but not least, the commission understands and appreciates the will of the european parliament to be closely associated with the process. unfortunately, it cannot support the amendment suggesting the participation of representatives of the european parliament in the advisory committee. comitology is a highly codified matter. it is our wish to adhere to the existing rules. thank you for your attention.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, thank you for making the commission's views so clear. i would like to begin by thanking the colleagues who have helped me to put this project into practice, all the committees which have tabled amendments in their turn and all the people who have given me advice. the commission's initial proposal was indeed very broad, very vague and not very concise, but it was intended to be general. the question before parliament is: can we make wishes and launch an initiative for intercultural dialogue without first broadening the subject to what we really want to do and without also talking about thorny subjects such as interreligious dialogue? we have tried to clarify certain points in our text. firstly, article 2 refers to the common values of the european union. in adhering to the charter of fundamental rights, we are saying enough that our common basis, which we have all accepted, is indeed the basis which guarantees us non-discrimination between the sexes and equal opportunities in all its aspects. there is no need to repeat it over and over. it will also be necessary to continue the action beyond 2008, to stimulate dialogue in all the many initiatives already in place in the community programmes. education will undoubtedly play a very important role in this regard, not to mention the involvement of civil society: cooperation with all civil society actors is essential. it is clear that the media will have a major role to play and we will have to take advantage of the large gatherings and emblematic events planned for 2008 to fight, among other things, against human trafficking and forced prostitution. it is also essential to include other international organisations, such as the council of europe and unesco. this does not mean that the intra-european dialogue should not be the main focus, but simply that we should take account of the joint actions already launched by unesco. in this connection, i would like to recall the vote on cultural diversity, in which the 25 member states spoke with one voice. another thing: we are going to create the internet portal and when the commission tells me that it cannot agree to a reduced budget for advertising, i will ask the commissioner if he could increase the overall budget. our committee on culture has already pointed out to him that a budget of eur 10 million is very, very little to achieve this year's objectives. we know that culture is always the poor relative in the budget. in these circumstances, the remark that you want to go back to the original budget cannot satisfy us. we say to you: make a further effort at the level of the overall budget so that we can put more into the budget for advertising. as regards the dialogue with the religious world, i must nevertheless remind you, mr president, that just yesterday the president of the council and the president of the commission opened a debate with the representatives of the religious communities on the subject of fundamental rights and mutual respect. after that, we would like parliament to keep this aspect only in the recitals, whereas in my view parliament should also be open to this dialogue. we can no longer maintain such taboos in our society. we need to move forward and talk about the things that are causing the problem. thus, religions and their rejection play a leading role in the processes of identification, integration and, also, social exclusion. i would like to stress, with the support of my colleagues, the importance of this aspect of intercultural dialogue in a broader sense. finally, mr president, it should not be overlooked that concrete actions will of course be a means of arousing attention. why not create a dialogue prize within parliament, like the sakharov prize for human rights? why not organise an intercultural forum in parliament to close out the year, to give parliament the visibility it deserves on these issues?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, that is enough talk: let us act. let us have mandatory targets above 20% and strengthen legislation, above all as regards transport, but also electricity. let us take the opportunity to relaunch combined heat and power – that should be our answer to energy security. however, all this can only happen if there is institutional capacity-building. as long as there are more people in the commission working for euratom and on nuclear power then on energy efficiency, then there will be more talk than action. commissioner, we will judge you on this. you promised us more staff to work on energy efficiency. you have not delivered on your promises and will not be able to do so without more staff. we need these staff because we need commission officials to go outside brussels and build a new partnership. energy efficiency is about a new culture, and we must therefore get national, regional and local governments on board, as well as industry, ngos and the citizens. how can you achieve this with just a handful of officials in the commission?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the need to invest more in research is very much supported by the entire european political class. however, the 7th framework programme is a perfect illustration of the gap between european ambition and reality. the commission had proposed appropriations of €72 billion. governments have reduced the european effort to 50 billion euros. even if parliament has managed to secure some 340 million more, it is clear that national self-interest has outweighed the ambitious strategy to make europe the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world. but the glass is only half empty! the appropriations allocated to research will nevertheless constitute the third budget of the union for the next seven years. the socialist group generally supports the proposals set out in the buzek report. we support the compromise negotiated by our goldsmith, philippe busquin. my group attaches great importance to freedom of research. the creation of the european research council is a major step forward in this respect. real scientists must be trusted to evaluate research programmes and to decide on priorities. in this context, we must beware of so-called "ethical" speeches. ethics has never been an exact science. ethics have always evolved with the level of human knowledge. this also applies to embryonic and adult stem cells. why do jews, muslims, buddhists and other religious people not share the same apprehension as some catholics do about embryonic stem cell research? because catholic ethics dates back to the council of 1869 which promulgated that every embryo has a soul. if any religious belief deserves respect, science should not be governed by religious taboos. the socialist group, in its very large majority, is in favour of basic research, including on adult and embryonic stem cells. europe must support all serious research in this field, even if it remains illegal in some countries. the union also supports nuclear research, even though some countries no longer want civilian nuclear power. our only prohibition is against human cloning. therefore, mr president, my group encourages commissioner potočnik to go ahead with his defence of research in europe in all its diversity, and this in the spirit he has just shown.
mr president, the european union and the world need safe and sustainable energy flows at affordable prices. i just quoted javier solana. the interesting document he sent to the european council is marked by some stunning silences: while it does mention the need for an energy policy for europe and an action plan with priorities, mr solana carefully avoids mentioning concepts such as the 'common energy market' and the 'single market'. in short, the europe of the necessary energy solidarity is still in limbo. the fact is that the energy question will become a central element of all european policies. energy will dictate our policy on international relations. it will determine the economic, environmental and social policies of our countries. energy will increasingly influence all eu policies, from agriculture to structural policies, to housing, transport and research. despite this, europe's response to the various energy challenges remains weak, without energy. what can i do? to influence its external supplies, europe must first show its internal solidarity, its will to build a genuine common market. mr solana tells us that the best way to guarantee a secure supply of energy at affordable prices is through the proper functioning of world markets. yet global markets are dominated by cartels and oligopolies. where is the free and transparent market that the liberals love? gazprom has just entered into a dialogue with the algerian company sonatrach, which is certainly not about making gifts to the union. is it not time that the countries that consume the most also organized themselves? in its resolution on the lisbon strategy, parliament called on the union to consult with the americans, the japanese, the chinese and the indians in order to avoid competition which would ultimately be ruinous for all. europe must invest in energy efficiency, in new technologies, in renewable energy. everyone knows that europe's energy future will not be 100% nuclear or 100% renewable. we need an energy mix that is as smart as possible, taking into account the geographical and climatic differences between the countries, their resources in primary energy, biomass and so on. the union cannot ignore any leads. research in all its forms must be encouraged. and then, above all, europe must become more united and more energetic in defending our common interests.
in writing. i abstained in the final vote on the resolution on the future of europe. i consider this resolution superfluous and even counterproductive. as a supporter of the constitutional treaty, i expect all 25 heads of state and government to honour their signatures and submit the draft to ratification by their respective countries. the people of france and the netherlands voted no. before asking these states to reconsider their vote, the other states lagging behind finland must give their opinion, starting with great britain, poland, sweden, portugal, ireland and denmark. the future of europe also depends on their choice. the european union cannot afford to ignore this debate.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you may be surprised that as chairman of the parliament's 'wine, quality, tradition' intergroup i did not take the opportunity to ask an oral question myself on the use of oak chips in wine-making practices. since we are going to be debating here in the next few days a commission communication on the reform of the wine cmo, i do not think that we should put the cart before the horse, but that we should give time to reform such a delicate regulation which is so divisive among european wine producers. some of them have told us that they have been waiting for ten years for the opportunity to use this chip technique. the others see it as an attack on the traditions of european viticulture and fear a risk of monstrous consumer deception. others point to the responsibility of the member states, particularly in the area of legislation on vqprds. finally, the oiv's responsibilities are not confined to the community. and if, as always, the devil is in the details, which cannot be dealt with today in this context, i would like to warn the commission today against a rash of bad decisions which carries many dangers. firstly, we must face the facts by adopting a regulation on oenological practices in committee, which will be defined when we deal with the reform of the wine cmo. secondly, the creation of a bureaucratic monster which is difficult to control, with the risks of deception and distortion of competition that this entails. i therefore strongly urge the commission to avoid adopting the draft regulation amending regulations 1622/2000, 884/2001 and 753/2002, which, as far as i know, has not been adopted. as regards labelling, i would caution against setting a precedent which could be unfortunate for the labelling of alcoholic beverages. we have so far been able to avoid labelling that harms the product and makes it illegible to the consumer. so let us not play with fire in this delicate area which mrs klaß has described very well.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your contributions to the debate and i will inform my colleague, commissioner marian fischer böl, of the interest you have shown. as i mentioned in my opening statement, the use of oak wood chips in wine production was already approved at political level by the council last year. the technical rules for their application were the subject of an exchange of views within the wine steering committee, and the commission proposal was supported by a majority of member states. i regard the debate here today as a contribution to the debate. the discussion is important as it is part of a wider issue of improving the competitiveness of the european wine sector. clearly, action is needed. the commission has just reintroduced emergency distillation for a total of 5.6 million hectolitres of wine, at a total cost to the european union budget of €131 million. more than eur 500 million is regularly spent on distillation per year. of course, in the long run, it's not sustainable. the commission will soon adopt a communication on the reform of the wine regime, which will no doubt be the subject of a comprehensive analysis and debate in parliament. my colleague, commissioner fisher böl, has on several occasions noted, with regard to the future of the wine sector, that the sector needs to increase the competitiveness of european union wine producers, improve the reputation of european union wine quality as the best wine in the world and win back old markets and win new markets in the european union and worldwide. to create a wine regime that works on the basis of clear, simple and effective rules such as the balance between supply and demand. to create a wine regime that preserves the best traditions of european union wine production, strengthens the social fabric of many rural areas and ensures that all production is environmentally friendly. the measures we are discussing today are fully consistent with these objectives. the future of the wine sector depends, among other things, on the symbiotic combination of the best traditions of the sector and modern development practices. let me briefly respond to some of the points that have been raised. the first question was why the commission did not introduce an obligation to label wines which had been processed using wood chips. a council regulation lays down a number of mandatory particulars for the labelling of wines, but only the council can decide on the obligation to indicate on the label the treatment with wood chips. this indication cannot be made mandatory by commission regulation as provided for in the proposal under examination by the management committee for wine. in any event, the commission considers that the current wine labelling system is already too complex and rigid and that it would therefore be appropriate to simplify and make more flexible the existing procedures. the use of oak chips and pieces of oak wood in contact with wine during its ageing has been allowed for ten years in most producing countries outside europe and the wines produced in this way satisfy the wishes of consumers. the international organisation of vine and wine, the international reference organisation in the sector, adopted this practice in 2001 and considers it to be a good oenological practice. there is therefore no reason to prohibit this process or to prohibit the import of wines thus processed into the european union. ladies and gentlemen, the question of wine processing is a particularly important one, because wine is part of the tradition of our european agriculture. as i have already said, the commission is preparing the relevant documents, which will also be the subject of parliament's debate. as regards the question of wine and the commission's options in relation to the labelling of wine produced with or without wood chips, i think my communication provided sufficient information on the procedural options available to the commission.
mr president, i have a question following the commissioner's explanations. did i hear the commissioner correctly? he said that there had been an agreement at political level since last year, whereas, to my knowledge, the famous draft regulation amending regulations 1622/2000, 884/2001 and 753/2002 has not yet been adopted. for my part, i simply asked the commission whether it would agree not to adopt this regulation in comitology before the debates we will have on the reform of the wine cmo, because that is what we are interested in. we are making very bureaucratic regulations behind our backs, and i would therefore ask that they be avoided until the debates here on the practices... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i should like to congratulate our rapporteur on the key points he has made and on the fact that he has spoken in his presentation about improving the climate. i believe that the climate of creativity goes even beyond the climate of innovation. the commissioner has rightly pointed to the inventiveness of the finnish presidency: if one examined the finnish education system, one would see that this country has dared to go beyond employability, that monstrous term which was coined by the european bureaucracy to promote inventive skills, and that from an early age. secondly, commissioner, i think that the lisbon strategy is a good example of the european council acting as a sand merchant. in 2000, the council launched a prestigious idea and five years later, it is clear that it has not been followed up, that the budgets have not taken into account the wishes of the heads of state to increase research appropriations. so let's just do our job first! i thank the rapporteur for mentioning the annual report of the european council calling for supervision of the funds which are promised to us year after year but which do not come. it is time for national budgets to be adjusted so that we can finally succeed in creating synergies in research. i would like to make a further appeal in this connection. it has come to my attention that the new european research council which will be set up under the seventh framework programme will be a monstrous bureaucracy. mr president, commissioner, i think that if that were the case, it would be going beyond what both the council and parliament wanted.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the so-called cia flights have caused a great deal of excitement in the political class of europe. the circumstances in which suspects were allegedly arrested and transported in various european countries remain unclear to this day. this may be because there is actually much less to be learned than some particularly zealous critics of america or america-haters had hoped. i want to say something fundamental about the events of the last few weeks: europe in general and we in the european parliament in particular should not, in a difficult period like this, waste our energies on undertakings which are ultimately rooted in the need of some to distance themselves from the united states. we still do not have a coherent constitutional perspective. we have to answer complex questions about enlargement, our common identity and the limits of the european project. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. in this situation, to insist on the cia flights across all the european institutions until we know that we still know nothing seems to me to reflect a peculiar order of priorities. europe has more serious problems than whether or not someone from any member state of the union has been flown somewhere. if we take ourselves seriously, we should immediately dissolve this superfluous committee and move quickly to focus more on ourselves and not on the possible misconduct of a state which is our strongest ally and an old friend, and - as i hope - will remain so in the future. for all these reasons, i shall vote against the present anti-american resolution.
in writing. i did not vote for the motion for a resolution by the temporary committee on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners. firstly, i consider that the creation of this temporary committee is totally superfluous in view of the fact that the council of europe has conducted an inquiry into the matter under article 52 of the european convention on human rights. why double-time? why encroach on the powers and responsibilities of the council of europe? what is the point of having even a prime minister of a small country give a big report on the cooperation between the european parliament and the council of europe if, at the first opportunity, we waste our time in crafting a resolution whose only purpose is apparently to pour out a visceral anti-americanism? i share the minority view that this temporary committee is superfluous, that it should not continue its work, which so far has not produced corroborating evidence of alleged violations of european and international law by member states of the european union.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – mr president, i have a very specific comment to make on this report. amendment 18, which refers to article 4, calls for a graduated progressive tax. however, amendment 19 – creating a new paragraph 1a in article 4 – seeks to introduce the notion of direct proportion. this notion was also included in the amendments by mr langen, although he has now withdrawn them. so what would such a notion mean? it would mean that the tax on a car with emission levels of 200 g/km could only be eur 200 and that on a car of 160 g/km, eur 160. as a result, the desired outcome – namely to effect a major shift in what the consumer decides when he buys a car – would not be achieved, since, if there is only a difference of eur 80 between a car with 120 g/km emission and a car with 200 g/km emissions, then the market will remain unaffected. we must therefore vote against this direct proportionality and stick to the text on the graduated progressive tax. the commission published a very interesting document last week on the efficiency of cars in europe. on page 32 of the working document, there is a graph showing which category most cars fall into. you will see that almost 70% of the cars in europe are between 140 and 200 g/km, and only 25% are below 140 g/km. so what we can achieve with this instrument is to levy an over-proportional tax on those between 140 and 200 g/km, so that we can effect a major shift to categories below 140, which is the target of the european union. so, we have a contradiction in our text, and if we want to be effective we have to remedy this.
mr president, i think it is sensible that we should vote on this amendment.
in writing. i abstained in the final vote because the votes were inconsistent.
member of the commission. mr president, climate change is the most important environmental problem facing our planet. if the actions we have set out to tackle it do not work, then the change will have very unpleasant economic and social consequences in the future on a global scale. for this reason, the kyoto protocol, which provides for a reduction of emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases by 5.2% by developed countries, was signed and ratified under the united nations international convention on climate change, and the european union undertook to reduce emissions by 8% compared with 1990 levels. to achieve this objective in the period 2008-2012, we have taken various measures at community and national level. many of these measures are provided for in the first and second european climate change programmes. the main measure we have envisaged, which has been operational since 1 january 2005, is the community scheme for the trading of greenhouse gases, in particular carbon dioxide. with this system we envisage the most cost-effective way of achieving medium and long-term reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. the scheme covers about 50% of the carbon dioxide emissions in the european union. it covers some 11,5 thousand businesses, industrial and other facilities and is today the largest gas trading system in the world and arguably the only one which is international: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply the principle of equal treatment to all workers in the same sector. the success of the community trading system is of great importance because it can be the basis and we intend to use it as the nucleus for the creation of an international trading system for greenhouse gases. this is an effective way of reducing global greenhouse gas emissions, and in particular of helping to make the developed countries, such as the united states, the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases (about a quarter of all carbon dioxide emissions come from the united states), contribute to this reduction, and of course of finding ways that are acceptable to the rapidly developing countries, which are also emitting more and more greenhouse gases. you will all have heard in the newspapers about the recent initiative in california to introduce a system similar to the european one for the trading of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases from 2009. the same is true, but specifically only for companies that produce electricity, in seven northeastern states of the united states, and it seems that there is already some pressure from below on the federal government to start discussing the issue of a global greenhouse gas trading system. i must stress that there is no doubt about the european commission's determination to maintain and improve this system in order to achieve the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions needed to stabilise the concentrations of these gases in the atmosphere. last spring, the companies covered by the community scheme reported, as required, their carbon dioxide emissions, which were verified by independent auditors, and for the first time we have a consistent and verified list of actual carbon dioxide emissions in the european union. the actual emissions were lower than many expected. at this stage, the following conclusions can be drawn: firstly, the system in terms of monitoring, reporting and verification is working very well. the results of the 2005 audit show that the undertakings complied to a satisfactory extent with the basic obligations arising from the marketing system. the infrastructure of the system is functioning smoothly. secondly, market-based mechanisms are working and the community's emissions trading system already seems to be bearing fruit. third, and perhaps most importantly, member states can - and should - expect that the sectors covered by this scheme will contribute much more to reducing emissions, especially given that the european union as a whole is not yet on track to meet its commitments under the kyoto protocol. as you know, member states are required to announce their national allocation plans which at the same time set the overall ceiling for the whole european union for the 2008-2012 marketing year, which coincides with the first commitment period under the kyoto protocol. the commission has received 10 national allocation plans, representing about half of all the allowances approved by the commission in the first marketing year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the other member states have not yet notified their national plans to the commission. however, ten of them are already available as drafts in the context of public consultation. they come from the following countries: austria, belgium, bulgaria, cyprus, finland, france, italy, the netherlands, portugal and spain. the national distribution plans notified are now being evaluated by the commission. as you will understand, the commission cannot comment on the substance at this stage. as for our general approach to this issue, let me be clear: the commission will use all political and legal means at its disposal to ensure that national plans are in line with both the commitments under the kyoto protocol and the verified 2005 emission figures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in particular, for those member states that are not close to achieving the targets under the kyoto protocol, national plans should be used to facilitate the achievement of the targeted reductions. in particular, the member states with the lowest performance should be allocated fewer allowances than in the first marketing year. we will be concerned with rigorous and fair evaluation of all projects. finally, i would like to assure you that the commission attaches great importance to the submission by all member states, as soon as possible, of the national allocation plans for the second marketing year and we have already sent a letter, a kind of warning, to the countries which are delaying before we start the infringement procedure. if the member states do not send the information requested, the commission will consider taking further action. i hope that this will not be necessary and that the member states will send the plans for the allocation of permitted greenhouse gas emission allowances within the next few days, within the next month.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council shares the commission's view that the european union's emissions trading system is one of the cornerstones of the eu's climate policy. it is through this instrument that the european union has been able to demonstrate its leadership in responding to the challenge of climate change. carbon pricing is an essential element in our efforts to stimulate the development and deployment of environmentally friendly technology. as with all new systems, the ets has had its growth peaks in its early stages. we therefore need to carefully assess how the system could be further improved to meet its stated objective of reducing greenhouse gases in a cost-effective way. the commission's forthcoming evaluation report will provide us with an opportunity to do so. the preparation of the second national allocation plan is a major project under way. the member states prepare the allocation plans and the commission assesses them. this is clearly stated in the emissions trading directive adopted by the council and the european parliament three years ago. in the spring of this year we gained a lot of valuable experience from reporting 2005 emissions data. it is therefore necessary to consider how we can improve the transparency of the system on the basis of those experiences. the transparency of the system will help to ensure that market-related information is available to all operators in a coherent, coordinated and simultaneous manner. in parallel with the allocation plan process, the review of the emissions trading directive is already under way under the finnish presidency. it is of particular importance that the scheme provides a clear signal to operators that it is appropriate to invest in low-carbon, environmentally friendly technologies.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, as greens we are pretty much on the same line as our colleagues. we are at a critical moment: the cheating is over. what france, poland and germany have done with over-allocations cannot continue. however, i will use my speaking time to point out another issue, namely that of market distortion. if you look at the german allocation plan, there is a special clause for rwe, which gets four years of an old power plant allowance. on the other hand, they have completely emptied the new entrants. the german power market is already completely dominated by four companies. the german second allocation plan has a hidden agenda – not to allow gas power plant investment in germany, because that is exactly what those four big companies are afraid of. therefore, the commission’s directorate-general for competition has to be fully involved in the review. you made another point: why do we do this – to put a price on co2 or in order to have investments in efficient technology? you have to look at the polish and german allocation plans. what do they do? for a coal power plant investment in germany, they give 14 years of full allocations. there is no price incentive at all to switch from coal to gas, which was the cheapest option available in europe to cut down co2 emissions. the german and polish allocation plans are scandalous. they destroy the whole system of incentives. commissioner, you bear a great responsibility at the moment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report. i also thank him for taking up an idea that is very close to my heart. it is the idea of a new pact, a new quality of cooperation between the european level on the one hand and the large cities of europe on the other. in europe, 80% of people live in cities. if we are to make progress in the areas of resource conservation, energy policy, air quality, etc., it is essential that there be a closer link between the policies that are being made in the big cities and those at european level. we therefore need to make better use of the financial instruments of the european union, including the loans from the european investment bank. i would like to say a final word to mrs sommer: mr schwarzenegger and his conservatives in california are already ahead of you. he has clearly exposed the automobile industry as it operates today for what it is: criminals who deserve to be tried! i find it almost embarrassing that you are constantly acting as a lobbyist for the german automobile industry for someone who wants to preserve creation.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs prets on her report and on her determination to bring about a text which poses problems and which, if it is not a legislative text, is the expression of a strong will. the charter is an attempt to go one step further in imposing the idea that education is an area where cooperation between the different national systems becomes indispensable. if we are to promote mobility, we will need to improve the exchange of knowledge and information, promote multilingualism, reduce administrative barriers, ensure social coverage and the portability of financial systems. of course, the candidate will need to be prepared before departure, followed up during his stay in the host country and reintegrated into his country of origin. the fact that, despite the many specific programmes, mobility has not increased confirms that this charter is a step in the right direction. however, the council has repeatedly stated that education is a matter for the member states. the compromise reached is valid even if the step taken is still not ambitious and, above all, depends on the good will of the member states. we cannot, commissioner and president, build europe without making the fields of education and culture an open space where each country, each system, with its own wealth, will no longer be afraid of the other. the lisbon strategy commits us to striving for more efficient and modernised education systems. whether the charter will help to coordinate mobility programmes better will obviously depend on the will of the member states, but also on the demands of citizens who, like their ancestors in the middle ages, should be able to travel around europe without having to travel a road full of obstacles. for this we need more europe in the field of education and culture.
i have to say, madam president, i wanted to ask whether the committee on regional development is firmly in the hands of the epp, because what we heard from mr pieper was a purely epp view and not the view of the committee on regional development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, article 5 of the treaty establishing the european community says, and i quote: 'the action of the community shall not exceed what is necessary to achieve the objectives of this treaty'. this is called the principle of subsidiarity, the importance of which has just been underlined by president barroso. it is clear that the common objective of social cohesion in particular requires sustained political action to provide quality public services to all citizens. it is the municipalities, the local authorities, that are closest to the citizens. it is the local elected representatives who are best placed to judge the services needed for the welfare of their fellow citizens, especially the weakest among them. the union has logically not dealt with these public services for decades. but with the completion of the single market, there were more and more private competitors against cities and municipalities. the court's case law has not always been happy, sometimes even contradictory. in the court's view, the concept of a public service is not easy to define. there are significant differences between national practices in the 25 member states. president barroso has just stressed the need to respect the diversity of national, regional and local situations. that is why the socialist group has been fighting for years for a clear legal framework to enable services of general interest to flourish. that's all the socialists want. we want the greatest possible security for all operators of universal public services. the luxembourg judges must not become the arbiters of the quality of the public services to be provided. according to president barroso, they represent 7% of european gdp and 5% of jobs, which is to say that they are efficient. it is up to the voters, the citizens, to decide what universal services they want. the former commissioner lord cockfield, who was, with president jacques delors, one of the architects of the internal market, used to say: 'the commission has to help governments to save taxpayers' money'. he was wrong. it is not the commission that has to decide how public money is to be used, but, in the end, the taxpayer himself. it is up to the sovereign voter to decide whether his municipality or region makes good use of his money or not. it's called democracy. the ideologues of the market will object to the fact that the treaties require the commission to eliminate state aid which distorts competition, but article 87 of the treaty clearly states that such aid is prohibited only 'in so far as it affects trade between member states'. it is difficult to argue that public services provided locally by public authorities distort trade between member states. mr president, you have just announced a communication before the end of the year. i share the view of my colleague from the epp, mr werner langen, that we have had too many well-made texts, but without any real political consequence. please, mr barroso, submit one or as many legislative proposals as you like, but at least allow parliament to do its co-legislating work in an area which, as you yourself have said, is at the heart of the european social model.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. i would like to begin by saying, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that i have enjoyed this debate very much. i found it very interesting and i think it will be very useful. we have not wasted any time, and i have thus been able to get a much more concrete idea of your feelings and of the difficulties involved in carrying this matter forward. in fact, the debate has confirmed the remaining ambiguities that some of you have mentioned. the rapkay report is obviously a wise, intelligent report. he's trying to find a balance. but it is also true that it does not answer all the questions. and that should give you a better understanding of the difficulties the commission has had over the years in circumscribing the subject and providing more precise definitions. it's because matter is complex. let's face it, though. even if we consider the question in a fixed space-time, it is difficult because it is a question of reconciling principles which sometimes appear to be contradictory. the same applies to the principles of the internal market and competition, which are fundamental to our community and are enshrined in the treaties and which the commission must absolutely respect, let us be clear, as well as the principles of state intervention and the general interest. but if the question is already difficult in itself, it becomes even more complex when placed in an evolving space and time. the times - and this is a reality that some of you have pointed out - are constantly changing: structural changes in our markets, increased pressures from international competition and very significant technological changes. but the variation in the size of the area is also very great in the different member states: the level of assistance can vary considerably at national, regional or even local level. the question is therefore extremely complex and justifies the fact that it is so difficult or even impossible to provide a uniform answer in the name of the principle of 'one size fixes all'. does this mean that nothing can be done at european level? i don't agree with that. on the contrary, but how should we go about it? let us first consider what not to do. i think there are two extreme approaches that we absolutely must avoid. the first is to say: 'europe has nothing to do with services of general interest. it's none of your business". that's not true. it is also our business, because public services are at the heart of our social model and we want to preserve them. europe therefore has a say in the matter. the other radical approach is to say: 'regulate, then, because this will enable us to oppose - and this has been said with great frankness - what the treaties say', because we think that the vision of the treaties is more in favour of liberalisation and that the time has come to challenge it by enacting regulations against the rules of the internal market, against the rules of competition. we cannot accept that. the internal market is our strength. this is one of the great successes of our european construction. but if we set aside these two extreme positions, namely the ultra-minimalist position in european terms and the ultra-interventionist anti-market position, what can we do? it seems to me, after following this debate, that the principles i set out at the beginning and which are also taken up in the rapkay report give us the solution. i therefore suggest to you, ladies and gentlemen, that instead of concentrating on a theological debate, on the usefulness or unnecessity of a framework directive, which - as the debate has shown - clearly does not have a consensus, why not concentrate on the substance, as the majority in parliament seems to want. what's the deal? on subsidiarity, which we all accept. i think that the national and local levels must be respected in this matter. the compatibility of the internal market with the public interest must be ensured in all cases where there is an apparent contradiction. the second - and perhaps the most important - point is the very substance of public services. we all want them to be of high quality, to be affordable and accessible to all. the principle of modernising public services can therefore be accepted, but without forgetting these essential factors. finally, there is the need for greater legal certainty. if we agree on these four points, and after having met the various groups, after having heard mr rapkay, mrs thyssen and many others speak, i think i can say that there is still a common ground of consensus, prospects for compromise, it seems to me that it is possible to make progress on this matter while maintaining the principles that are ours, of the internal market, respect for the rules of competition, defence of the general interest, which define our european model. the communication we are about to present will go in that direction and i believe that the debate and my presence here today will help us to clarify our thinking. we will propose something which will show that we have made progress in our thinking and, i hope, in our decisions on such an important matter, which is at the very heart of the concerns of europe and our fellow citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i think we all agree more or less with what president barroso has just said. he's announcing a communication. we look forward to it. but can the president tell us whether he will ask his services to propose legislation as well so that parliament can finally debate it as a co-legislator?
in writing. i abstained on the krahmer report, which in its main elements is incomprehensible to the common man, including the legislator who is supposed to make the law. parliament, in its commitment to ambient air quality, should be content to set the main principles and the general framework, and should leave it to the experts to set the amounts to be respected.
in writing. i voted for the discharge but abstained on the resolution because the committee on budgetary control is so busy mixing up the real and the fake problems. parliament cannot change a seat fixed by treaty by means of a resolution. the cocobu is wrong about the rent paid and the purchase price of the buildings in strasbourg. in a market economy, it is impossible to speak of a fair rent, because any rent or purchase price is the result of a negotiation between the landlord and the tenant, respectively the buyer. while the city's approach may have been unflattering, there was no illegality or embezzlement. that is precisely what some members and some media have claimed, without any evidence of course. i want to dissociate myself from these sad sires.
in writing. the main quality of the ferber report is that it brings to an end a controversy which has lasted only too long. that is why i am voting for discharge. however, i cannot be satisfied with a number of statements. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. having followed the building affair in all its details, it seems clear to me that bad faith has prevailed. when the european parliament, through the voice of its members who are not sufficiently familiar with a complex legal construction, claims that it was not aware of the sub-leasing of the buildings, this is simply untrue. it was never the intention of the city of strasbourg to "plummet" this assembly. finally, the proposed purchase of the three buildings is good news for the european taxpayer. i am saddened to see that the members' pension fund has been unjustifiably attacked, in accordance with the principle 'slander, slander, there will always be something left'.
in writing. i voted against the eurlings report because it reflects the growing hypocrisy of europe towards turkey. i believe that turkey is destined to become a member of the european union. turkey has always been part of europe's political, economic and cultural history. although it is clear that turkey still has efforts to make in many areas, certain political forces in the council and parliament are increasing the barriers that turkey must overcome. i want to dissociate myself from these unworthy manoeuvres which, in the end, are only aimed at preserving a 'christian europe'!
in writing. i refused to take part in the vote on the breyer report which, from the necessary promotion of women in all economic fields, has become a catch-all, mixing the best and especially the worst.
in writing. i voted for the ransdorf report because it highlights the importance of nanoscience and nanotechnology in fields as diverse as medicine, surgery, energy, electronics, metallurgy and so on. but i voted against the amendments by the greens and against certain paragraphs which, under the pretext of the precautionary principle, want to make it appear that nanotechnologies are dangerous, because they manipulate the smallest, the atoms, the molecules. this is ridiculous. where the americans see opportunities, the europeans want to protect themselves against any conceivable risk!
in writing. i abstained in the final vote on this report because the european parliament, as is its custom, mixes generous intentions with an avalanche of unenforceable regulations. who can control how long cows graze in the meadows? who can check the actual age of a piglet before it is castrated? hell is paved with good intentions!
mr president, perhaps i can shed some light on this. i had replaced president schulz in the conference of presidents and had asked that this matter, which was on the agenda for this evening, be deferred to a later part-session to allow parliament to take account of new developments in the whole affair. the conference of presidents has granted this request.
mr president, we should like to add an item to wednesday’s agenda. in the light of the incident that took place at the forsmark reactor in july, we should like to have a discussion with the commission on nuclear safety. this house is divided over the issue of nuclear power, but, when it comes to safety, we all want to see a transparent debate on these issues.
mr president, i hope that other groups will support us if we put it back on the next agenda.
mr president, two weeks ago there was a train accident on the line between luxembourg and france. six people were killed and dozens more injured. i would therefore like to express my condolences to the families of the victims. after such an accident, however, you have to move on. one of the problems in crossborder railways is the great diversity of safety systems between countries. luxembourg has a different system from belgium, which has a different system from france, which has a different system from germany. the luxembourg railways are therefore faced with three different systems in addition to their own system. the best solution, after this accident, is to increase investment in the european ermts safety system. i hope that the european commission will make luxembourg and the wider region a pilot region for the introduction of new systems and devices. i also believe that the high-speed train, the tgv, which will run from paris to luxembourg from next year, which must absolutely be ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. i voted against this report in the committee on women's rights because i consider paragraphs 6 and 7 unacceptable and inadmissible. i believe that access to family benefits and health care for all people in irregular situations is an incentive for mass immigration, which is unacceptable given the immigration problems we already face. moreover, an increase in illegal immigration will lead to a further deterioration of the conditions faced by migrants. the european union cannot accept a report which further encourages the work of smugglers and which leads many women to risk their lives to immigrate illegally to europe in the hope of obtaining social benefits. i would like to stress, however, that i am very committed to the protection of women's rights. i think that the efforts made in this report to guarantee the fundamental rights of migrant women are commendable, but we must avoid anything which would have negative effects and in fact make the situation of these same women even more difficult.
mr president, commissioner, doris pack has been the tiger in the development of the programmes we are discussing today with the integrated programme of action. without his zeal, the progress achieved would not have been achieved. erasmus is certainly the most popular programme. the new version will, despite the financial increase, still depend on the general conditions of mobility such as the transferability of grants, social security and the recognition of diplomas. if mobility does not ensure that studies are integrated into the curriculum vitae, the transition to erasmus may be an additional year of study. commissioner, i would like to ask you how far we have come in integrating an erasmus year into the bologna process. as regards the leonardo programme, the mobility of vocational training candidates is a key concern of the craft sector and small and medium-sized enterprises, which also need to be made aware of the problem. preparing for the mobility of the workforce is what leonardo could do. to this end, the commission should initiate awareness-raising operations for enterprises and also ensure that the available budget is actually spent. i'd like to remind you that our ancestors were always willing to move. artists and craftsmen were the ones who traveled the most, and they were the ones who made society progress. cross-border trade is the best way to erase borders from the minds of our fellow citizens and to prove that we can do better. finally, i will not stop repeating, commissioner, that given the importance that president barroso attaches to culture, we should have the courage to make it a european policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the re-launch of the debate on how best to move the commission forward would provide a good opportunity to make a strong case for such a policy.
mr president, firstly i would like to pay tribute to prime ministers blair and balkenende, because they are taking europe forward on climate change, and explicitly in this letter they did not mention nuclear. nuclear is only 6% of our energy and it will divide europe more than it will bring us together to speak with one voice. mr barroso, i think you now have the historic responsibility to come up with a comprehensive energy review in january. in this energy review we need a co2 target for europe for 2020. if we do not have a co2 target for europe we will not have investment security for our industry; and what is better regulation about, if it is not about bringing energy and climate policy together in the document you bring forward? the second priority of this energy review must be putting an end to the oligopolistic structure in our energy and transport sectors. european business, european citizens, are losing billions of euros because of the lack of competition, and these same companies are preventing the innovation boost which we could have in these sectors. and as long as these oligopolies are not dismantled, we need specific policies in sectoral renewables and so on. such a strategy is the ground for a foreign energy policy and this is a peace project for the world, because these technologies will diminish pressure on resources and it is a business opportunity for europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, informal summits are only about to reach virtual conclusions. it's the world of the imagination, of the dream! let's imagine for a moment the transformation of the dream into reality. europe is an economic giant. even if we exclude trade between the 25 countries, we are the world's largest exporter. europe is the number one destination for international direct investment. excluding mergers and acquisitions, ibm recorded 8000 investments in new production capacity worldwide in 2005, including 900 in china, 600 in india, 1200 in the usa and 3200 in the eu, representing 40% of global productive investment. yes, europe lost market share, but less than the us and japan. yes, china has become our biggest supplier, but europe has doubled its exports to china. in fact, 60% of chinese exports in 2005 were made by foreign companies based in china. the countries of the triad sell themselves the goods they produce in china for the greater happiness of our consumers and the shareholders of the multinational corporations. yes, we have too much unemployment while creating new jobs. you will find the lowest wages in sectors such as catering, janitorial and cleaning companies, small businesses and handicrafts, which are not subject to global competition. of course, europe could do better, but it would be necessary for the dwarfs who govern us to finally put their own decisions into practice: investing in innovation, research and transeuropean networks. the union would need a real budget to support the rapid integration of new members and thus create a more prosperous internal market for all. moreover, if the leaders honour their own signatures, we might be able to conclude a new treaty for an energy europe. finally, if summits were no longer virtual decisions, president barroso could set up a european institute of technology with real money! mr president-in-office, is all this to remain a dream?
mr president, since its creation, the central bank has fulfilled its primary mission, namely the fight against inflation. the euro area inflation rate has thus remained below that of the united states or britain. our fellow citizens are wrong to believe that the euro has caused prices to rise. yes, there was a surge in inflation when the euro was introduced, especially in the restaurant and retail sectors, where prices were rounded up a bit too much. however, since that initial outbreak, underlying inflation has generally remained under control. the price surge in the oil and gas market is an external shock over which the union has very little control. but as the euro appreciated against the dollar, which remains the commodity currency, the shock was less for the eurozone than for the americans. the euro is in fact a shield which has protected the whole of europe in events such as the war in iraq, the war in afghanistan and the events of 11 september 2001. without the euro, many european currencies would have been under pressure and threatened to break up the internal market. as mr zapatero has argued, spain could never have withdrawn its troops from iraq if its currency had been the peseta instead of the euro. although the euro has served europe well, and although i commend the ecb for the work it has done, i remain convinced that the ecb could do better. president trichet and his colleagues attach too much importance to the fight against inflation, whereas the risks of inflation remain very limited. the ecb, on the other hand, refuses to support the general economic policies of the union and justifies its position by arguing that the constitutional treaty provides that the maintenance of price stability is the only possible support for the general economic policy of europe. the ecb is independent and will remain so, even without mr radwan's support: all the more reason to be open to dialogue. when we are independent, mr president, we can afford to have a more active dialogue with the eurogroup, for example with a view to achieving a more sustained economic development of europe. growth and stability are the two legs that move europe forward.
mr president, i regret that paragraphs 18 and 44 of the grech report were not voted on separately, because i would have voted against. some members of the committee on budgets are constantly fighting in the rear against the decision of the heads of state or government concerning the three places of work of our parliament. it is true that having three work sites entails costs. however, to call such expenditure 'unnecessary' is to say the least inappropriate. this decentralisation also has very positive effects for members and for the institution. furthermore, to question the need for our officials to be present in strasbourg at plenary sessions is a real affront to the administration, which i know chooses the officials sent on missions very carefully. i would also have voted against paragraph 44, which gives a negative opinion on the 'strasbourg experiment'. i object to that innuendo. the purchase of the three buildings in strasbourg which it did not own was a golden bargain for parliament. this is a very sensible expenditure and allows for considerable savings in public money compared with rental expenditure. i would have liked some members of the committee on budgets to have made a more objective assessment, especially since they are obliged to respect decisions on the seat, whether they like it or not.
in writing. i voted for the report on appropriations for the european parliament, but i regret that paragraphs 18 and 44 were not voted on separately, because i would have voted against. a number of members of the committee on budgets have been and are continuing to fight in the rear against the decisions of the heads of state and government concerning the three places of work of our parliament, namely strasbourg, luxembourg and brussels. it is true that this involves costs, but to call these expenses unnecessary is to say the least risky. there are also very positive effects for members and for the institution of this decentralisation, which a majority of the committee on budgets unjustly describes as geographical dispersion. to call into question the necessary presence of our officials in strasbourg for plenary sessions is a real affront to the bureau and especially to the administration, which i know chooses the officials who get a mission order to strasbourg with great care. i would also have voted against paragraph 44 which calls on the administration, after the 'strasbourg experience', as it says in a pejorative way, 'to apply more rigorous, more robust and more transparent procedures for the purchase of buildings'.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am glad that mr reul, who attacked wind energy on kulturradio deutschland two or three days after the power cut, in the same way as mr glos and e.on, now declares ten days after the cut that he has nothing against wind energy. it has now become clear that wind energy in germany did not contribute to the disaster at all, because it was a normal windy day. day ahead was delivered and it was even the case that the wind turbines in germany were instrumental in helping to rebuild the grid. this means that where a good interface can be defined between the grid operators, the regulators and the wind energy operators, wind energy has even had positive effects on the grid. in spain, on the other hand, many wind turbines were taken off the grid at a moment of low frequency, which is absurd because wind turbines are more sensitive to low frequency than other production facilities. they could have helped stabilize the grid in spain. what are we supposed to learn from this failure? the first is that we need to prepare the grids for long-term energy investment. there will be a migration of power generation to the coasts. and this will not only be true for wind power, but also for condensing plants, which will have no cooling at all inland because of climate warming and warming rivers. so we need to invest much more in decentralised energy supply - biomass, biogas, combined heat and power and also gas-fired power stations that can be located close to the consumption centres - whether in industry or in cities - so that they can absorb some of this migration and so that these decentralised investments also give us more space in the grid for trade. secondly, we need an eu regulator, not to abolish national regulatory authorities, but an eu regulator with very specific tasks in transeuropean electricity trade, to improve transparency, but also to improve the interfaces between national networks. we need this authority immediately, but with a clearly defined and not too wide spectrum. thirdly, the networks need long-term investment. this cannot be sustained by high returns in the short term. that's why we need ownership unbundling, because e.on and rwe want 25-30% return. such high returns are not necessary in a monopoly sector, where only 6-8% returns would be required for the investments to be made. the clear separation of network interests from those of production and trade will improve security of supply and also trade in the european network.
the commission's vice-president madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the hennicot-schoepges report on which you are asked to give your opinion is a very comprehensive report, a very high-quality report. i would like to thank mrs hennicot-schoepges and the committee on industry, research and energy, and mr bradbourne and the committee on transport and tourism, and the committee on legal affairs, for their support for the commission's proposal on this great european project, sesar. your report, madam president, agrees with the commission's position, which is able to support most of your amendments. i shall not go into the details of the discussion of all the proposed amendments. i shall confine myself to a few general remarks. first of all, i note that in the case of major technological and industrial programmes such as sesar or galileo, parliament and the commission share the same view of the strategic importance of such initiatives. sesar is a programme which is essential for the competitiveness of the european aeronautical industry. it is part of the community's technological innovation effort which is at the heart of the lisbon strategy. it is essential that in such a critical sector for the european economy, public institutions and the private sector pool their resources to build together what will become the most efficient, reliable and secure air traffic control infrastructure in the world. this public-private partnership required a clear allocation of roles and transparent procedures to avoid potential conflicts of interest. the commission therefore welcomes the amendments proposed by parliament which go in this direction. the commission's proposal is not a simple one. sesar is a public-private partnership and the prerequisite for private sector participation is that the programme is managed in an enterprise-like manner. moreover, as mrs hennicot-schoepges has very well emphasized in her report, the voting rights in the sesar joint undertaking's board of directors must be balanced, weighted, in relation to financial participation, which is a sound principle of good management of any private undertaking. i therefore find it difficult to accept the amendment proposed by parliament, which seeks to obtain parliamentary representation on the administrative board. the parliament, which is the main budgetary control body of the community as a whole, cannot both exercise this control and at the same time sit as a mere observer on the administrative council which it is called upon to control. in the same vein, the industry is keen that the choice of the executive director be made on the basis of objective criteria of experience, technical knowledge, rather than on political criteria. it is important to recognise that the sesar joint undertaking is an instrument for the management of a technological research and development programme and has no regulatory role. therefore, there is no reason for the direct involvement of parliament in the selection process of the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking. the commission, on the other hand, supports all amendments which ensure that parliament is properly and continuously informed about the sesar programme. i welcome the work of parliament. i am convinced that these few differences of opinion will not hinder our joint efforts to make this programme a success for the european union. and i would add that our whole environmental policy will find further support here because sesars are planes that can take off on time, avoid turning in the sky and, therefore, save energy and avoid unnecessary carbon emissions. that is why sesar is in every respect a project of the utmost importance for the safety of passengers, for energy savings and for the quality of the environment.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are today examining a report on the establishment of a joint venture for the implementation of the new generation european air traffic management system. sesar is the technical component of the single european sky, which is to adapt air traffic control to new technologies, ensure the safety and regularity of flights, organise air navigation services and define the roles and responsibilities between supervisory authorities and service providers. as you said, commissioner, the project is of vital importance at various levels for the future of european civil aviation. it is one of the joint infrastructure projects identified by the european council in 1994. we've already wasted enough time. sesar will be essential to cope with the increase in air traffic, which is expected to more than double in the next 20 years and which contributes €220 billion to european gdp and employs 3.1 million people. since the ageing of the control equipment, some of which dates back to the 1970s, no longer guarantees its reliability, the impact of sesar on safety is considerable. the same is true of the environment. the implementation of this project will lead to substantial fuel savings, thanks to the optimisation of routes and the better use of airspace, and to the reduction of queues for aircraft. the commission estimates the reduction in greenhouse gases at 4 to 6% per flight. the passengers will also see their waiting time at airports reduced as a result. the commission proposes the creation of a joint venture which will have to be set up quickly, even before the end of the definition phase which already runs from 2005 to 2007 and is co-financed by the community budget and eurocontrol to the tune of eur 60 million. from 2008 to 2013, the joint undertaking will provide the development phase with a budget of eur 300 million per year, shared between three partners: the commission, eurocontrol and an industry grouping. the commission will also be able to provide information on the impact of the new rules on the market for the products concerned. this first public-private partnership in the field of civil aviation will provide many job opportunities. it will also be a major research and development project with the potential to open up markets outside the union, provided that it does not delay entry into force. the procedure for enhanced cooperation between our two parliamentary committees reflects the twofold interest of this project, namely research and transport networks. the commission based its proposal on article 171 and parliament was thus excluded from the codecision procedure. i would like to point out, however, that the cooperation with the commission has been very good and that parliament will remain very attentive to the developments and will use all the means at its disposal even if it is not represented on the administrative board. the amendments we have made clarify the text on the issue of potential conflicts of interest. we have also asked the commission to produce a new document dealing exclusively with the third phase, in order to remove a good deal of the doubts raised by the first draft. sesar is a project in the interest of the citizen, which will put the european civil aviation industry at the forefront of progress and improve our competitiveness. the interest of industry in this project justifies its financial participation and the allocation of voting rights should avoid any administrative burden. parliament thought it right to maintain the possibility of setting up a fee, as industry's participation has not yet been confirmed. it is to be hoped, commissioner, that sesar will not suffer the delays of galileo or the debacle of airbus and that it will prove that european research, eurocontrol's know-how and the capabilities of the industries concerned can be combined for progress. finally, commissioner, it goes without saying that the member states will have to prepare themselves to organise the distribution of air traffic control in accordance with technological developments. in conclusion, i would like to thank all my colleagues and first of all my co-rapporteur, mr bradbourn.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to start by congratulating mr joan i marí for his excellent report on the commission communication relating to a new framework strategy for multilingualism. not only the framework strategy, but also the report has been drawn up in the spirit of diversity and unity. that should be the leading line in our implementation of policies in this area. i am sure we would all like to see a multilingual european society in which the rate of individual multilingualism steadily increases until every citizen has practical skills and at least two languages in addition to their mother tongue. that is the famous ‘mother tongue plus two’ formula agreed by eu leaders in barcelona in 2002. i recently set up the internal multilingualism network in the european commission and established the high level group on multilingualism. these are both implementation initiatives under the new framework strategy for multilingualism. another priority is to develop early language learning. if we want to build a multilingual society we have to start as soon as possible. we have to ensure that language learning in pre-school and primary school is effective, for that is where key attitudes towards languages and cultures are formed. the new lifelong learning programme will offer a wide range of funding possibilities for projects promoting language awareness, for access to language learning resources, as well as for networks contributing to the development of language policies. for the first time the education and training programme has, as a specific objective, the promotion of language learning and linguistic diversity. for the first time also, a transversal action will support multilateral projects and networks in that field. these are new opportunities open to all the languages spoken in the european union. let me now say a few words on the european indicator for language competence. that was one of the subjects in another recent communication from the commission. the first meeting of the advisory board took place just two weeks ago, at the end of october. the experts attending the meeting, representing 22 countries, showed much interest and consensus on taking forward the establishment of that indicator. i am pleased to note that the report by mr joan i marí recognises the commission’s efforts to promote language learning and linguistic diversity in the european union. the report contains a thorough analysis of our framework strategy to create a multilingual society and acknowledges our commitment to achieving the objectives stated in our communication. i should like to thank the rapporteur once again for his inspiring report, and would stress that the commission is determined to pursue the ideas and actions set out in this new strategy for multilingualism in our union.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, debates on multilingualism, the protection of regional and minority languages and the use of languages in the european institutions always give rise to committed positions, which are fed by underlying political conflicts. this own-initiative report, which, it should be recalled, aims to implement a new strategic framework for multilingualism, has the merit of continuing the discussion already begun with the ebner and bayona report in 2003 and the portas report in 2005, on regional and minority languages and on language learning by immigrants. parliament is therefore called upon to confirm previous positions or to amend them in the light of developments in the situation, unless it wishes to contradict its own positions. we have tried throughout our work to find a balance acceptable to all parties, reflected in the results of the votes in committee, by considering the acquis and putting the issue of multilingualism into perspective. i will therefore ask my colleagues to be wise and not to make a mistake in the fight. languages must be the link between the citizens of europe and not the weapon that sows division and discord. my country, luxembourg, is the only member state, a founding country, whose national language is not recognised as an official european language. but the luxembourg government decided not to submit this application, considering that multilingualism is our future. language and understanding were given to us to understand each other, not to fight each other. on 10 october 1941, 65 years ago, luxembourgers were forced to take part in a referendum organised by the nazi occupier, asking them what their race, ethnicity and language were. the answer to all three questions was luxembourg. the punishment was forced enlistment in the army of the occupier, deportation to concentration camps. the fact remains that the generation of the sacrificed accepted after the war that the first language to be taught in school was german, together with french. the luxembourgish has developed successfully and is doing well. for our future, i hope that article 22 of the charter of fundamental rights, which commits the union to respect cultural, religious and linguistic diversity, will protect us from arbitrariness.
in writing. i am not enthusiastic about voting today for the services directive. this text has been distorted and trampled on. crucial provisions such as those on the posting of workers have disappeared and i regret that. we were told that this was to avoid social dumping, but it is not. these provisions would have clarified the rules of the game and the controls in the european union for companies and workers. the same applause is being made and we are delighted that the country of origin principle - which was accompanied by the necessary safeguards - has disappeared. but how can we at the same time be happy about the great step forward for the internal market? what are we offering our businesses and our citizens? at any rate, they do not have the clear rules they need in the internal market. too many lies and fears have clouded the debate on this issue, to the detriment of the internal market and the integration of our europe. we have missed a great opportunity to integrate more with this directive. let us learn from this for the future and not make the same mistakes again.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, society makes progress not because of institutions but because of courageous and intelligent women and men taking initiatives and then sticking to them. commissioner, you are one of these men. you have understood climate change and the depletion of energy resources. these are the challenges of the 21st century. colleagues, we are in a race against time. we may have only 10, 15 or a maximum of 20 years to get out of a trap which will definitely cause bloodshed, wars, weather anomalies and diseases. it will be a disaster for this planet. the only way out will be to invest massively and rapidly in energy-intelligent use and in renewable energy sources and materials. we have brokered a deal to get at least 50% of the money for non-nuclear research to renewables and end-use energy efficiency. we have a deal on three issues. firstly, energy efficiency has to be a horizontal priority all over our research – it is about material research and ict, which has to involve the energy and resource dimension. commissioner, you must set up a coordination body to make this happen not only on paper but also in reality. secondly, on renewables, we in europe are the leader as regards technology in that area because we put money into fp4, fp5 and fp6 to invest in wind, photovoltaics and biomass. i want fp7 money to make europe the world leader in offshore wind, solar thermal electricity and marine technology. we have to move towards that. the third part of our deal is that these issues need to be monitored. finally, iter is the bad decision. why? because somebody told me that the less chance there is of a technology breakthrough, the bigger the chance to have an international agreement.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of parliament, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, the fictitious rapporteurs and all the actors involved in the long and difficult preparation of this text. it certainly has more positive points than negative points and i would still like to deplore the fact that no chemical safety report will have to be submitted for the 17 000 substances produced in quantities ranging from one to ten tonnes. there is no doubt that the compromise we reached on the authorization was the ultimate means of reaching an agreement. however, as regards cmrs, carcinogens, mutagens or substances toxic to reproduction, the valid control route adopted is acceptable, except that the agreement, which provides that it is indeed mandatory to define a substitution plan for research and development without however extending the obligation to the implementation of the plan, weakens the text. the first correction will therefore have to be introduced in six years' time. in the general context of the increase in certain types of cancer and the decline in fertility, is it not our collective ethical responsibility to apply the precautionary principle, particularly with regard to hormonal disruptors? despite the improvements made to the commission's text, it should be noted that reach will help the european chemical industry to maintain its leading position on the world market, that reach will contribute in a completely new way to restoring consumer confidence, and that the reach amendments will improve the weaknesses of the system. mr president, the ball is now in the court of the commission and the member states, who will have to ensure that the agency is operational as soon as possible.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. madam president, wait a minute, this is an advertising spot! well, we'll try to get something out of it. let's talk politics first. i want to thank the commissioner. i remember liverpool: the text you presented us with was already a good medium-term. i would like to thank mrs hieronymi whose negotiating skills as rapporteur have enabled the main amendments of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to be incorporated into the report presented to the plenary. i have two restrictions to make. i would first like to express the regret of some delegations that the compromises approved by the committee on culture, which strike a fair balance between the funding needs of broadcasters on the one hand and the respect of viewers on the other, are now being called into question. it's a very bad idea, and it's bad for the whole audiovisual industry, because an industry that doesn't respect its consumers is doomed in the long run. i think it is essential to respect the integrity of cultural works and, as far as i am concerned, until i am fully informed, i will stick to the 45-minute segments, which cannot be cut. as far as product placement is concerned, the committee on culture has been very strict in its approach to the matter, and i therefore support its amendment. finally, madam president, i regret that this report and the political conditions in which it is presented do not allow for a medium-term reflection on the balance between public and private broadcasting: we must tackle this together in the medium term if we want to ensure the survival of this report.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to congratulate mrs hieronymi, on behalf of the epp group and myself, for having managed to lead us to a successful conclusion, both in human terms and in technical terms, despite a very controversial debate. setting precise rules in a technological environment, which is by its nature highly mobile, is not easy. the question is, how far can we regulate? a fair and equitable framework was needed, with strong and binding principles for sensitive issues, such as the protection of minors, while ensuring that the players in the sector were not penalised. a strong and fundamental principle is that of the country of origin, which has been retained. the current compromise allows the authorities of the member states to settle their disputes in the event of fraudulent and abusive behaviour on the part of the country of the issuer, in the terms of the text. the european people's party agrees with the rapporteur's approach to advertising, but adds that advertising must be broadcast at the same volume as the programme before it, as recommended in an amendment by the committee on culture. i would simply point out that the ideological debates around advertising must also be careful not to forget that it is a job-creating sector, a living sector, a creative sector which also has a cultural side. the controversy surrounding product placement leads me to the following remark: the solution adopted - banning product placement in principle, leaving each member state free to authorise it - is a strong message, calling for the responsibility of the member states for the financing of quality television. finally, the spectators are somewhat left behind, they are not concerned by this directive. we should also be very careful to ensure that television is not restricted.
in writing. i supported guido sacconi's compromise on reach because it is a major step forward for consumers, workers in the sector and even for industry, which, by adapting, will become the world leader for safer chemicals. it is true that reach is still a little too bureaucratic and does not always take into account the interests of mediumsized and especially small businesses, which are the strength of europe. it will be necessary to ensure that neither the commission nor the agency will give in to a precautionary principle which prevents any risk and any decision, and that reach - which is in any case a process that will take 11 years - is implemented in an intelligent way, which means that we will have to limit the studies that are ultimately unnecessary and the vexatious procedures.
in writing. i am not happy about this and would have preferred another version of this text, which remains a veritable bureaucratic monster, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. while the greens and the left are strongly critical of me and go so far as to claim that i would defend the chemical industry at the expense of public health, the chemical industry and especially the small and mediumsized companies in this sector are accusing us of imposing on them costly and difficult to manage legislation which could lead to the relocation of large companies outside europe and would threaten the survival of smes in particular. chemicals, such as some of the 130 or so substances used in the manufacture of tyres, could no longer be used in europe, with the result that they would be incorporated into finished products imported from third countries and escaping any controls. a too perfectionist reach is therefore as dangerous as an extreme one, as it would risk the loss of thousands of jobs in europe without contributing to improvements in public health. one advantage of reach is that it brings together 40 existing directives, which is an improvement in the promotion of the single market.
in writing. i voted for the version of the audiovisual services directive as amended by the rapporteur's compromise amendments because they make the directive viable and reasonable. the country of origin principle enshrined in this directive is of paramount importance. it will enable television stations to be based in one member state and to broadcast their programmes in all eu countries from that member state. i also consider the compromise on product placement to be viable, as it guarantees income for independent european producers while protecting consumers from undue over-production and keeping children's programmes out of the picture. as regards advertising breaks, i voted for a 30-minute gap because it is realistic given the average length of television programmes in europe. this gap ensures that private broadcasters have adequate income from which they can continue to finance the production of programmes. i support the authorisation of the isolated sites for the same reasons. a more severe restriction on advertising, as proposed by the left in this parliament, would have a negative impact on european television production and would result in a considerable loss of revenue for private channels, estimated at some eur 200 million per year.
in writing. i am one of those who believe that this globalisation adjustment fund is totally unnecessary or even counterproductive: it is the prototype of a bad "good idea", but once such an idea is launched, it is difficult to stop it. we have structural funds, we have the european social fund and others that are functioning and are perfectly equipped to respond to the challenges and consequences of the restructuring linked to relocation, whether linked to globalisation or not. what is totally aberrant is that amendments propose to assign to this fund objectives which do not contribute to improving europe's competitiveness through structural reforms and which are not achievable within the framework of this fund. i know that any opposition to this fund can be interpreted as an insensitivity to the negative effects of globalisation-related relocation. this interpretation is unjustified, given the concerns of europeans about globalisation. we want to remedy this through constructive structural reforms and not through a fund which gives the companies a great excuse and leaves them with a clear conscience. the fund implicitly encourages them to relocate because they no longer have to worry about the negative effects on employment in the eu.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the end of each presidency reminds me of the cry: 'the king is dead, long live the king!' after the finnish presidency, which did not disappoint, europe is preparing to work under the new king, the queen, i mean mrs merkel. the presidencies have come and gone, but the problems remain. from next year onwards the union will be represented by 27 commissioners and 785 members of the european parliament: this is clearly an inflationary process, which is disrupting the functioning of our institutions. i have always worked for the enlargement of the union. europe was never meant to remain an elite club for christian nations. for this reason, turkey must be given a credible prospect of membership. turkey is part of our history, of our common culture: the iliad took place in the so-called "asian" part of turkey. europe needs a democratic and secular turkey as a link between the different cultures of the mediterranean basin. but before we can expand again, even to croatia, our union must reform itself, change its structures and its functioning. it was a serious political mistake to proceed with successive enlargements without first deepening the institutional framework. the treaty of nice is just a re-plastering. the constitution, even though finland has just ratified it, seems to be in limbo. the union's budget is a misery. the financial perspective is a vast deception. the union urgently needs its own resources to meet our economic, social and environmental challenges. from the outside, europe looks like a kind of earthly paradise, which explains the high number of people seeking to immigrate, legally or illegally. but the people of europe know the union's shortcomings and expect their leaders to take real political decisions and not to talk at the summit, which always gives rise to heaps. will the finnish presidency be able to end on a high note? doubt is allowed.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – i wish to begin by thanking mrs morgan and mrs ek for a political line that combines environment with competition. this is the way forward. frau präsidentin! europa steht vor einer weichenstellung. es gibt eine energie- und verkehrspolitik für eine handvoll konzerne. das bedeutet freie fahrt für benzin fressende, tonnenschwere fahrzeuge, klimaschädigende kohlekraftwerke, risikotechnologie, atomkraft, unlauterer wettbewerb und die fortführung jener abzockerei, die es heute auf dem markt gibt. das ist die politik, die die kommission – d. h. kommissar verheugen mit der tatkräftigen unterstützung von herrn barroso – gegen kommissare mit entsprechendem fachwissen wie herrn piebalgs, frau kroes oder herrn dimas durchsetzen will. es gibt aber auch eine energie- und verkehrspolitik für die bürgerinnen und bürger europas und für tausende von mittelständlern und handwerkern. diese politik bestünde darin, massive investitionen zur modernisierung der europäischen gebäude zu tätigen, tausende arbeitsplätze zu schaffen, die energieabhängigkeit europas – auch bei gas – zu reduzieren, verbesserte standards für massenkonsumgüter wie pkw, kühlschränke, flat screens und häuser zu erzielen. sehr wichtig ist es außerdem, die bestehende richtlinie zur förderung der erneuerbaren energieträger weiterzuführen, die so erfolgreich ist, dass sie e.on und edf ein dorn im auge ist. herr kommissar, sie haben uns für januar eine neue richtlinie zu heizung und kühlung versprochen. diese richtlinie muss kommen, dann werden die bürger entsprechend handeln. außerdem brauchen wir mehr wettbewerb. wir haben nur diesen einen planeten. wir sollten ihn nicht den kurzfristigen gewinninteressen einiger konzerne und ihren helfershelfern in der politik überlassen.
mr president, in this amendment, one phrase was deleted from the original text which i believe is important – it is supported by the socialists and the liberals – and which reads as follows: ‘strengthening laws with regard to competition policies’. we should add that. it then makes more sense to vote for the whole paragraph.
