on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the verts/ale group supports the principal ideas in mr catania’s report. we consider that eu citizenship based on residence should be the ultimate goal to make the european union a genuine political community. those residing legally and on a long-term basis in the eu have to be granted political rights irrespective of their original nationality. the crucial reality of the enlarged eu is that amongst those covered by the term ‘third country national’ are half a million people who are not nationals of any state, being former citizens of a state which no longer exists: the ussr. these people make up 20% of the population of latvia and 9% of that of estonia. they are holders of non-citizen’s passports issued by those states, but for 15 years they have been deprived of their rights to political participation. in my opinion, latvian and estonian non-citizens may be the first candidates to become eu ‘civic citizens’, the term commissioner frattini proposed just now – and i am very grateful to him for that proposal. i believe that by adopting the catania report parliament will signal to the authorities of latvia and estonia that respect for equal rights is crucial for the eu.
on behalf of the uen group - my colleagues! the united nations report on reform recognises climate change as one of the most significant threats to global security. the kyoto protocol has promoted the use of renewable energy sources, but to continue this positive development, the european union should take greater initiative to further develop these sources both at home and elsewhere in the world. the entry into force of the kyoto protocol following its ratification by the russian federation is a positive development, but the involvement of the united states, which is responsible for one quarter of emissions, is also needed to mitigate climate change. i think the united states should also focus more on energy efficiency and conservation measures at the same time. more highly developed countries may meet the kyoto protocol targets for reasons unrelated to climate policy. however, the rapid development of china and india, for example, where one third of the world's population lives and where it is essential to strike a balance between development needs and environmental protection, should also be taken into account. would like to invite the european commission to pay particular attention to the discrepancy between the commitments of the kyoto protocol and their implementation. develop and actively defend, with the involvement of the european parliament and the council, the european union's strategy for negotiations in un fora on the future of the kyoto protocol and its commitments beyond 2012.
on behalf of the uen group president of the council! my fellow citizens! the draft of this port directive that we are discussing now is a classic product of the work of the previous european commission. when it was submitted in spring 2004, the european commission did not carry out studies on its impact on the new member states of the european union, which would have resulted in, for example, baltic ports having to compete in unfair competition with russian ports. therefore, as rapporteur, it is obvious that finding a compromise on the draft directive will be very difficult. unfortunately, it may be that the organizers of the violent demonstration and some of their supporters will celebrate a victory in the left wing of this parliament tomorrow. but whatever measures i may take, i would like to say to those who defend the old european relaxed social standards that without substantial reforms these standards cannot be maintained in any way.
the speaker. mr president, i would like to thank you for your work. you guys! first of all, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and proposers for the european commission's communication, and as a result, i think we have achieved a good result in the transport committee. i think we all had the same aim: to give the european commission's negotiators a clear path to russia and china, and of course to give the council a political mandate. in this respect too, i think we have been able to formulate a very clear position on the most important issues. relations with china. given the rapidly growing chinese aviation market, for example, that within a decade china will be the largest market in asia for cargo aircraft, then we had a number of principles in our work. firstly, rapid progress in the development of a comprehensive aviation agreement between the european union and china. the second contract must be based on a horizontal contract, of course. as my colleague, mr saïd el khadraoui, has just mentioned, we would very much like to see this base develop very rapidly in relations with china. thirdly, at the same time as the comprehensive contract is being prepared, we would like to see the mandate extended to include requirements for airport security infrastructure and the quality of air traffic control in china. fourthly, the report stresses in particular the need for an immediate result in the air cargo sector, which would allow european companies to compete in a more timely manner in the potentially largest asian cargo aviation market. relations with russia. the committee on transport considered it a totally unacceptable practice that russia, contrary to the chicago convention, to which it is a signatory, charges european union airlines more than 250 million euros per year for trans-siberian flights. this money is largely invested in the russian company aeroflot, which will thus ensure it more than usd 100 million in annual profits and will allow it to maintain about 38% of the market for air transport between the european union and russia. i am pleased that my colleagues in the transport committee felt that the european commission should be much more rigorous in its negotiations with russia, both within the world trade organisation and in aviation modernisation projects. we find it unacceptable that these payments could continue until 2013 in the same way and in a very opaque form. in addition, these charges create discriminatory barriers for many european airlines to gain market share in the chinese market, as mentioned above. the draft resolution is even more stringent: 'no other payments which replace these trans-siberian flight charges are acceptable to the european parliament'. we in the transport committee also felt that any european union airline should be granted an equivalent non-discriminatory legal status in the negotiations between the european commission and russia, which would allow them to obtain permanent rights to land and take off at russian airports. in conclusion, i would say that we in the committee would like to see more information both on the negotiations and on their status, which would enable the european parliament to better defend the interests of europeans - both airlines and passengers - in other countries' aviation markets.
thank you, chairman. the russian president's christmas greeting to gas consumers in ukraine was no surprise. by cutting off gas supplies in the middle of winter, russia reminded not only ukraine but also the world's energy markets that the power is now in the hands of the energy suppliers. energy suppliers will have to deal with this for an unpredictable period of time. i would like to commend commissioner piebalgs for using the european union's influence during the russian/ukrainian gas crisis to a sufficient extent to prevent an energy crisis in europe. on the conclusions of the russian/ukrainian gas conflict. the european union must ensure for itself and for other countries on the continent full transparency of information on gas price developments. i believe that what is happening gives the commission specific powers to implement the laws adopted, the decisions on the acquisition of alternative energy efficiency resources and the creation of a truly liberal energy market, to ensure the integration of energy networks in europe. and of course, this is what almost all the speakers are saying today: the european union's common market needs a real common energy policy that would serve the long-term political stability not only of europe but also of the global energy market.
today, the european union is facing such major internal and external challenges that the presidency cannot simply continue the work it has started. does the proposed presidency work plan reflect the essential tasks for the european union? i think the presidency has identified with sufficient precision the problems without which it is difficult to imagine the further successful development of the european union. clear answers are needed to the fundamental questions about the limits of enlargement and the depth of integration of the european union. this would allow us to return to the constitutional debates at a different level of mutual understanding. the lisbon strategy is the last stage in the implementation of the strategy, with the intensity of daily activities being matched by the time limits for its implementation. the liberalisation of the services sector would not only open up new sources of economic activity within the european union market, but would also be the most significant support for the development of small and medium-sized businesses that the european union can provide. strategic decisions in the field of energy security are also a must if business research and infrastructure development activities are to be placed on the strategic floor today. the presidency should therefore not delay in identifying the problems of principle by forcing the member states to seek solutions during the current presidency.
commissioner, please! the council! you guys! the tannock report is a good example of the problem and of the european union's ability to defend its interests and policies in the geopolitical space around the european union. a democratic, stable and prosperous neighbourhood is, of course, the best guarantee of development and security. however, as the author of the report rightly points out, the effectiveness of the eu's neighbourhood policy should be enhanced by specifying objectives, priorities and evaluation criteria. the european neighbourhood policy should draw on the experience of the new member states of the european union by promoting reforms in the caucasus, ukraine, moldova. the report rightly points out that the success of neighbourhood policy in individual countries depends on the relations between the european union and russia. but it's hard to believe that russia, thinking in old geopolitical categories, will be a reliable ally. the call to work together with russia to promote the democratisation of belarus seems even comical. it is well known that the putin regime is becoming authoritarian by the day, the more it deviates from democratic governance. commissioner, please! unfortunately, the bilateral dialogues between putin and schroeder, putin and blair, putin and schirac, provide russia with the desire to negotiate with a fragmented european union. this guarantees derogations from the principles and requirements of the eu's neighbourhood policy. the balancing of russian and ukrainian gas prices on the so-called cheap gas bill of turkmenistan is a monopolist reserve, not a market transaction. i'm worried about you. it is difficult to understand why, in the context of the growth of the russian economy, the share of russian co-financing within the framework of the european union, the northern dimension, the global partnership or the programmes for the elimination of weapons of mass destruction is not increasing. the report does, however, mention the wise and effective use of the instruments of the neighbourhood policy. it is indeed worthwhile to make greater efforts to develop the regional and sub-regional dimension. it is worth thinking about the importance of eastern europe's geographical, historical and political aspects in shaping a credible european union neighbourhood policy.
on behalf of the uen group - mr president! i'm not going to let you down. tonight we are dealing with the european charter for small enterprises for the last time as a separate report. i would like to add my voice to the hope expressed here that this will not diminish the importance of policy support for small businesses once the report is included in the overall report on the implementation of the lisbon strategy. i believe it is essential for the european union not only to maintain but also to increase its role in this policy area. small businesses often lack political incentives and institutional support at member state level. the burden of taxation and bureaucratic procedures places many small businesses in a discriminatory situation compared to other market participants. small businesses therefore often have to fight not for special benefits, tax or bureaucratic simplification, but first for non-discriminatory conditions for their business. the european union's policy on support for small businesses needs to become more effective and aggressive, motivating member states to take account of the interests of this group of businesses. i therefore support the proposal to give the european charter for small enterprises the force of law. however, this is not enough to bring about a significant improvement in the situation in this area. the charter cannot remain just an instrument for transferring the experience of one country across borders to another, leaving businesses at the mercy of their national economies. the impact of the charter would significantly increase the political will of the european union and encourage action for further economic integration, firstly, by the adoption of the services directive. the liberalisation of the services sector in the internal market would provide this group of companies with unprecedented development opportunities and incentives, and remove the administrative and financial barriers that prevent small and medium-sized enterprises from crossing national borders. we must not forget that it is from small businesses that the entrepreneurial spirit that makes economies vibrant, thriving and stable is born.
on behalf of the uen group - mr president! my fellow citizens! i would like to draw the attention of the council and the commission to four issues which call for very rapid and consistent action within the framework of the common foreign and security policy. first, the priority of the neighbourhood policy. first, the direction of russia and ukraine. it should be noted that russia currently has no good relations with any of its neighbors, as they are formed not on the basis of mutual respect and mutual benefit, but by imposing economic or energy sanctions by refusing to sign the prepared border agreements. russia is currently blocking ukraine's food exports. i therefore call on mr solana and the commission to act immediately to facilitate the lifting of this blockade, while reminding russia that such action is in direct contradiction with the requirements of the world trade organisation, to which it has declared its wish to join. secondly, the gas supply crises in ukraine, moldova and georgia served as a wake-up call to europe that these supplies are insecure, that diversification of supplies is needed, and that coordination between the european union's energy and security policies and those of the member states is needed. thirdly, in this context, the contract for the northern european gas pipeline, which was obtained by the former german chancellor on suspicion of political corruption, should be mentioned. by not being consistent enough in their assessment of the case, the european institutions are undermining the trust of citizens and, among other things, preventing us from talking about fighting corruption elsewhere in the world. and now for another region -- china. china is currently in a phase of rapid development and is ready to establish priority cooperation with the european union. if our dialogue with china does not become closer and more constructive, it may turn to closer relations in another direction. finally, in relations between the council and parliament, we would like to see more than just consultation, but that the european parliament's views are actually taken into account, particularly with regard to the so-called 'unanimous' vote.
ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, please! mr solan, please! today we are talking about the need for a more open, effective and accountable common foreign and security policy for the european union. we can be proud of the fact that much has been achieved in recent years to improve europe's civilian military capabilities. but unfortunately, the report by mr brock reveals too many serious and still unaddressed shortcomings and problems in the cfsp. there are serious difficulties in taking decisive decisions on the common european security and defence policy (ecsc) and the european security and defence policy (esdp). the serious lack of funds for this policy is also underlined, as is the need for democratic parliamentary control. these are just some of the topics on today's agenda. so we, the european parliament, should be able to turn things around, including by calling for proper policy coordination to ensure an intensive dialogue between the european parliament and the council on these issues. we know it is not easy, but this is a question of the european parliament's institutional influence and growth. the substantial support of european citizens for common european security measures places an obligation on the european parliament to increase its institutional influence and participation in decision-making. security would only be enhanced if the reports of mr chirac, mr solana or mrs merkel or the decisions taken in the field of weapons of mass destruction, the fight against terrorism or energy were predictable and would not surprise the european parliament by not being prepared.
the objective of liberalising the postal sector in 2009 is real and achievable. this is demonstrated by the practice of member states which have been more rapid in their postal reforms. it is not clear why the report emphasises that competition does not always maintain the previous level of employment in the postal sector. postal reform is not about keeping jobs, nor is it about reducing them, of course. jobs may also be lost without liberalisation, for example as a result of technological modernisation. we cannot see the reform of the postal sector through the prism of the corporation. the development of the postal undertaking and its adaptation to new market conditions is a matter for the management of the undertaking. the main objective of the transformation of the postal sector is to better serve the interests of consumers by ensuring that the citizens of the european union have access to a universal service. at the same time, however, the postal sector cannot be maintained as an industry for the maintenance of the universal service. it should be borne in mind that the largest proportion of postal customers - even over 90% - are business customers, whose requirements for the postal sector may vary. a wide range of postal services must be developed at a high quality level if the industry is to survive and develop. the postal services sector is increasingly interacting with other sectors - financial services, advertising, trade. the future of the postal service will depend on the success of this interaction. the development of the postal sector is one of the drivers of the productivity and competitiveness of the european union's economic development. unfortunately, progress towards a common european union postal market remains substantial.
thank you, madam president. now, in view of the latest amendments jointly tabled by the people's party and the socialist groups, it is regrettable that the services directive was not adopted before the latest enlargement of the european union. it seems that public opinion in the old member states, which listened to both of the largest political groups, now sees all market liberalisation measures as threats, even though the aim of these measures is to make the european union stronger. i would therefore first of all like to reject the erroneous notion that the liberalisation of the services market is only beneficial to the cheapest end of the market, i.e. the new member states. already in the high value-added services sectors - financial business, consultancy - this flow from old to new countries is greater. the flow of services after liberalisation is not and cannot be one-way. for example, the share of the old member states in the total value added of the european union's construction industry is ninety-five per cent, and in business services it is even higher, at ninety-eight per cent. the services sector in the old member states with its high added value, capacity and capital will therefore undoubtedly find a stable place in the markets of the new member states. applying the principle of the country of origin to the provision of services would open the internal market of the european union to the largest service provider in the member states, namely small and medium-sized enterprises. in maintaining the principle of the country of origin, part of the competitive pressure on the labour market would be shifted to the enterprise sector. this would have a positive impact on the development of business in europe as a whole. employed outside their country of origin would maintain a direct link with their country of origin through their national enterprise. the new member states are interested in the export of goods and services rather than in the export of labour. one of the arguments against the country of origin principle is the fear that welfare standards in the old member states will be compromised, but the removal or substantial limitation of the country of origin principle renders the services directives ineffective, which would certainly undermine these standards in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i'm not going to let you down. my fellow citizens! the services directive aims to promote economic growth and employment in the european union. the current high level of administrative barriers hampers the effective functioning of the eu internal market. administrative barriers and related costs have the most negative impact on the sme sector's ability to provide services outside its own country. the services sector accounts for around 70% of the eu economy, and the removal of administrative barriers in this sector would give a significant boost to the eu's economic development. the european commission's analysis shows that the measures taken between 1992 and 2002 to improve the eu's internal market for jobs and to open up the eu's internal borders have increased the european union's gdp by 1.8% and created two and a half million new jobs. this increase has been achieved mainly through the free movement of goods and liberalisation in the telecommunications and energy sectors. the european commission's analysis also shows that a genuinely functioning internal eu market for services could also provide equivalent economic and job growth. it is therefore important to vote for a strong services directive, which preserves the country of origin principle, at least in the version voted by the european parliament's committee on the internal market and consumer protection, preserves the provisions of the directive governing the right of service providers to send workers to the country of provision of services, and has a limited list of exceptions. without these principles, the meaning of the services directive is significantly diluted and additional opportunities for eu economic growth will be lost. some meps are seriously trying to distort the meaning of the services directive and implement a protectionist policy towards service providers in the new member states, despite the economic damage this will cause to the european union as a whole. the european parliament's vote will show whether a majority of meps see the eu's economic future as a dynamic and open internal market or as a protectionist jungle of 25 member states.
mr frattini, colleagues! the fact that iran's nuclear issue will be addressed at the un security council was clear from the beginning. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's nuclear programme is not disrupted by the threat of nuclear weapons. the demand for constructive action was then drowned out by the position that the iranian issue should be resolved only through negotiations. however, it is clear that the tension between iran and the international community has only increased. colleagues, the last few months have been a time of consolidation of international action. not only the international atomic energy agency, but all five permanent members of the un security council have unanimously recognized that iran's nuclear program is not peaceful. of course, it is not for the european parliament to decide the future course of events, but we must consider that the failure of the countries to agree on a common course of action during the 2005 review conference of the npt (nuclear non-proliferation treaty) has only provoked the bewilderment of the iranian ruling circles. ladies and gentlemen, in view of the iranian nuclear issue before the un security council, the european parliament and national parliaments must, in this situation, repeatedly ignore the need for unity in the international community. let us remember that any lack of doubt or conviction becomes the strength of the iranian regime, fuels the fanatical circles, realizes their intentions.
my fellow citizens! the free flow of information from europe is vital to supporting democracy in belarus. i would like to emphasize that, firstly, our funding for radio broadcasting to belarus has so far not had the desired effect. the decision of the european commission to award a contract worth two million euros to a german-russian consortium to broadcast in belarus, knowing that a russian tv station already has generous contracts with the belarusian authorities and that the broadcasts are in russian, is in my opinion an unacceptable waste of money. this may ultimately support the lukashenko regime. secondly, the european union must support the democratic printing press in belarus. thirdly, consideration should be given to facilitating the acquisition of european union visas for ordinary belarusian citizens, scientists, cultural workers, while at the same time strengthening visa restrictions for representatives of the ruling regime and their families. finally, i would also like to call on the european commission and the council to do more to ensure the immediate release of the politically convicted opposition leader, michael marinić.
in writing. i voted against the amendments to the services directive which provide for a derogation from the introduction of the country of origin principle. at the same time, i support amendments which stress the need to avoid a deterioration in the quality of services in order to protect the interests of consumers and to respect safety and health considerations. it is considered that a departure from the country of origin principle will have a significant impact on the free movement of services in the eu, limiting the ability of companies from the new member states to compete freely on the eu market in the services sector. the commission has not yet received any comments from interested parties on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. the citizens of latvia, as well as those of the other new member states, consider that the de facto closure of the service sector in the old eu member states is nothing but fraud and a departure from the promises made by the eu to the new member states in the accession process. the latvian people have paid too high a price for joining the european union. latvia's industry and agriculture were destroyed by the full opening of its internal market to western producers. i believe that we must agree on a directive based on solidarity between the old and new member states of the eu and on the principle of equality.
the president! the commission's proposal on restructuring and employment concludes that policies aimed at preventing change, at freezing economic structures, merely postpone problems and thus increase their negative effects. however, several of the restructuring measures identified in the parliament's report unfortunately go in this direction and could make it difficult for companies to adapt to market changes. the analysis of the situation and the conclusions in the report shall be compared with the recommended measures. for example, the report mentions the slow growth of the european union economy, low competitiveness of enterprises and labour mobility. however, the report further recommends that restructuring should not be used to increase the company's profitability by reducing the number of employees. the growth equalisation fund proposed in the report is another example of short-term thinking. the best way to preserve jobs is to create new ones. this should also be emphasised in the report. therefore, restructuring policies should first aim at the creation of socioeconomic models that are ready for permanent change. the measures should contribute to the development of self-regulatory capacities in the member states and in the european union as a whole. it is also the only way to balance growth and high employment in the long term.
on behalf of the uen group paragraph 37 of the parliament's report, which is generally welcomed, concludes that the rapid changes brought about by globalisation and the widespread use of information and communication technologies are putting people at greater social risk. globalisation and information and communication technologies are assessed as risks. i believe that the threats to a society in which the rapid changes brought about by globalisation are not driven by the widespread use of information and communication technologies. risks are when the benefits of change are seen as risks. the widespread use of information and communication technologies increases the educational and training opportunities of the population and the opportunities for participation in the labour market, especially for the most socially vulnerable groups, such as the disabled. social groups or individuals can engage directly in social dialogue with the public administration through e-government. social policy should therefore also promote measures that help to exploit these opportunities. coordination of policies for the development of the social and information society is needed. let's not worry about the rapid spread of information technology to dictatorships in north korea and belarus.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the lisbon review last year raised hopes that the strategy had gained new momentum, but developments over the last six months show that real action to achieve the strategy's objectives continues to lag behind. the european commission, in assessing the member states' programmes for implementing the lisbon strategy, is talking about a redoubling of efforts to achieve the lisbon objectives. i believe that at this stage, a significant success would be to reduce by at least half the effort spent on circumventing the lisbon objectives. the most recent and most prominent example is the services directive, which was conceived as a major impetus for the liberalisation of the internal market and the enhancement of competitiveness, and also served as one of the cornerstones of the lisbon strategy. the european parliament's compromise option will hardly be able to bring about the activation of the single market, at least not during the lisbon strategy. in other areas too, we are increasingly seeing that any change and reform is met with growing social and political repercussions. a lot of energy is spent on maintaining the status quo and avoiding change and reform, but it is precisely reforms in the european union's internal market and the deepening of its integration that can provide the key to creating a stimulating environment for the implementation of the lisbon strategy. little progress has been made in ensuring coordinated financial support for the lisbon objectives. in the rigorous discussion of the financial perspective, the representatives of the governments of the member states were not focused on strategic considerations and the financial perspective had very little connection with the lisbon objectives, nor was much done to align the use of the structural funds with the lisbon priorities. the use of the structural funds and closer coordination of the lisbon strategy should be achieved at both the european union and member state level, by aligning national development plans with the programmes implementing the lisbon strategy. the basis of any strategy is the ability to subordinate short-term interests to long-term objectives. the lisbon strategy will therefore also depend on how and when the member states and the european union as a whole succeed in convincing the citizens of the european union that without the lisbon strategy it is not possible to ensure the long-term achievement of the growth and employment objectives.
my fellow citizens! the current enlargement of the european union has undoubtedly been a success story, as it has promoted reforms in many countries and widened the area of peace, stability and the rule of law in europe. further enlargement of the european union is necessary, but new mechanisms and ways will have to be found to get the european union out of the absorption capacity of new countries. the european commission will of course have to develop this absorption capacity concept when defining the precise criteria. alongside full participation, we must also offer various options for multilateral cooperation and partnership with countries that will not be able to join the european union in the foreseeable future. i would like to endorse mr brock's view in this respect. this could be a way of bringing countries such as turkey, ukraine, the balkans and later other countries on the path of reform and european values.
mr president, i very much appreciate the references in mr brok’s report to the need to respect fundamental rights and freedoms, notably the rights of minorities in turkey, croatia and the western balkan countries. when debating the turkish application to join the union, i urged the commission not to repeat the mistakes that were made in the case of the accession of my country, latvia, in not using this process to promote the rights of minorities. the european free alliance group has called upon the european institutions to urge the turkish government to improve its policy on ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities. unfortunately, we do not see any progress here and, in particular, innocent citizens are still being killed in kurdistan. two weeks ago the parents of derwich ferho, the prominent human rights defender and president of the kurdish institute based in brussels, were killed. indications suggest that turkish special forces were involved. i am for further enlargement, but i am for enlargement based strictly on the copenhagen criteria.
on behalf of the uen group - my colleagues! the reform of the un, and in particular the transformation of the commission on human rights, was aimed at creating better institutions, not the same or worse. finally, a compromise has been reached and the human rights council has been set up, which is good in itself. however, the current solution, that the general assembly only needs a majority to elect a country, but three-quarters of those present to withdraw from the council, is a very weak compromise. it is not certain that this will exclude countries with human rights abuses. it will be even more difficult for the council to get rid of the presence of such countries. so there is a possibility that the discrediting of human rights-dishonoring countries in the council may eventually continue. the agreement that the human rights council will meet not six but ten weeks a year is not a basis for optimism either. these compromises raise doubts about whether europe's position on un reform is sufficiently defended. in the field of human rights, if we - the european union - do not lead the process, no one else will either. the european commission must therefore mobilise the greatest possible support for the proper further reform of the un human rights institution, as well as for the election of countries to the council that will not discredit it and that will lay a good foundation for effective work in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. my fellow citizens! first of all, i'd like to congratulate my colleague, professor trakatellis, on a very good report. in the commission's new community action programme in the field of health and consumers for 2007-13, the commission has highlighted the important role of the european union in reducing the number of cases of a major, i stress, major disease. cardiovascular disease, as we all know, is by far the leading cause of death in europe. every year, 2 million people in the european union die as a direct result of this disease. the decisions taken by the council of the european union during the irish presidency were and are a good start for us to address cardiovascular disease. i therefore believe, as do many of my colleagues here, that this legislative document should definitely include a reference to cardiovascular disease. you have to call things by their right names. i would therefore like to ask my colleagues to support amendments nos 142 and 143, which give concrete expression to the definition of what are then called the major diseases in europe, which we need to tackle together by activating the prevention, screening and treatment of these diseases. i thank you, mr president.
on behalf of the uen group to bridge the gap between the european union's lisbon objectives and reality, the commission's work plans for 2007 must be ambitious. the commission's action must cover all areas, while prioritising those initiatives which are not only of relevance to a particular sector but also to the overall development of the european union. the commission's plan lists the launch of the space programme and the ongoing evaluation of the strategy among the key actions to implement the lisbon strategy in 2007. without contesting the importance of these measures, i believe that the lisbon process would be more widely supported by specific measures to promote the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the development of the service sector, which are not included in the list of measures. although the development of smes is one of the priorities, it is not reflected in the list of key measures. however, it is precisely the development of this sector that can make the most immediate contribution to the objectives of employment and growth. although the development of the services sector is and remains one of the main instruments for implementing the lisbon strategy, the commission's 2007 strategy does not mention specific measures for the development of the services sector. it is hoped that this was not a deliberate action but a known mismatch between strategy and operational updates, which is why the reform of the services sector was not included in the commission's 2006 policy strategy. the adoption of the services directive in 2007 will also pave the way for new initiatives by the european commission to liberalise services in certain sectors. the establishment of a single stopover agency would be one of the concrete measures in this direction. the year 2007 will be decisive for the debate on the future of the european union. one of the main criteria by which the european public will judge the viability and future prospects of the european union in 2007 will be the concrete results of the work of the european union institutions, including the commission. however, this specificity should already be reflected in the setting of priorities and tasks, defining the measures for 2007 not only as a continuation of what has been started but also as the achievement of concrete results.
thank you, chairman. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the attention it has paid to the restrictions on the free movement of workers in the internal market of the european union. unfortunately, the recent enlargement of the european union to the single market has been perceived as a threat rather than an opportunity. the mystical polish plumber, who is desirable in real life but hard to find, is a good illustration of the concerns that have been raised about the european union's internal market following enlargement. we want a negative attitude towards all four freedoms, not just the free movement of labour. it is therefore regrettable that the report does not give any consideration to this parliament's weakened draft services directive, which, in the commission's proposed version, was to become the main stimulus for the labour market in the european union in the coming years. nor does the report assess the negative impact on employment of restrictions on the free movement of capital, including those adopted by this parliament at its strasbourg session last month. these are the reports on 'restructuring and employment' and in particular the report on 'relocation in the context of regional development'. the guiding principle that unites both reports is the creation of restrictions on the free movement of undertakings within the internal market of the european union. this is a time of untapped opportunities for the activation of the european union labour market. developing and strengthening the european union's internal market is the most effective way of preparing the labour markets of the member states for increasing global competition. the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states must therefore be closely linked with the objective of developing the potential of the internal market of the european union.
on behalf of the uen group - mr president! we have had a bitter disappointment with the free market in services until recently, but now we see that only a few of the governments of the old countries are willing to open up the markets to the labour of the new countries. most governments, by continuing to restrict workers from new countries, are actually tackling the more serious problems posed by immigration from third countries. the partial opening of the labour market to, for example, builders, swiss, clerks, as proposed by france, does not indicate a readiness for the fundamental freedoms of europe. rather, it reflects the low prestige of the profession, as unemployment among french young people is very high. however, this selective opening of the market to low-skilled workers means that many skilled workers will be encouraged to leave the new member states, change professions and immediately receive higher pay. but in the long term, it weakens europe's competitiveness. finally, i would urge those young french people who are protesting and who are disappointed in their government for discriminatory legislation against them to go to the new member states and build a career there. we have very low youth unemployment, and we don't discriminate against them.
on behalf of the uen group i would like to thank you for your support. i would like to emphasise that we must not only talk about the important common values of the people of the european union, but also actively live the content of the report by my colleague mr takkula. more so because of the growing concern that the sense of europe, its identity, is being lost in a globalised world. indeed, we need a europe that is pluralistic, fair, democratic and world-oriented. the historical and cultural aspects should be particularly covered. we must welcome both nazism and stalinism, and i emphasize again stalinism, mass deportations and commemorations of the victims. you must preserve the evidence of this crime. such tasks are a testament to the progress in the thinking of the european parliament that has been demonstrated by members. unfortunately, the same cannot be said of the wording of the council. unbelievably, they have retained the cold war-era tolerance for the half-true history of europe, which was suppressed by totalitarian communist regimes. the council should be reminded that stalinism was also a totalitarian regime, no less destructive to the victims of the peoples of europe. the report from takkula is good. now, this is further proof that historical truth does not distinguish between nazi crimes and communist crimes. crime is and remains a crime. i am surprised that in this citadel of democracy, justice and truth there can be proposals for a report which still tries to undermine the importance of the memory of those who died in the holocaust or the gulag. i am grateful to the rapporteur and to the modern-minded members who speak of a europe built on fairness, shared values and true history.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. my dear commissioner! mr. taco! what are you doing? ladies and gentlemen! in the last century, the great historian hannah arendt has concluded, in a remarkably simple but precise way, that there is nothing more fundamental about totalitarian regimes and dictatorships than the fact that their crimes against humanity are forgotten in a surprisingly short period of time, and that new tyrants can emerge in their place in an equally surprisingly peaceful way. the opportunity to see new stalins and hitlers has sadly not disappeared to this day. that is why it is our common task to ensure that the crimes committed by the nazis and the soviet totalitarian communism are not forgotten. we must remember the horrors of the time when the foolish idea of two tyrants to subject the peoples of europe turned into mass murder, death camps and the twisting of fortunes, and left a black mark on the history of europe. despite some ideological differences, the two totalitarian regimes share a common trait. both hitler and stalin organized mass deportations, established death camps, and carried out mass murders, killing millions of people, including vulnerable children. i can safely say that almost every european family has a story about the fate of a father, a brother and a sister who were abandoned. the crimes of hitler's nazism and stalinism cannot and must not be forgotten, especially this year, when on 14 june it will be 65 years since the brutal mass deportations began in the baltic states. today, the peoples of europe must be made to understand the principles of democracy, freedom and respect for human rights. may it never occur to any modern-day stalinist to think that he will go unpunished. we must support projects that commemorate nazism and stalinism, mass deportations and victims. we must show our children the places associated with mass deportations and concentration camps and preserve the memory of the victims. i call on you to vote for the dismantling of european history!
my fellow citizens! i had the opportunity to observe the parliamentary elections in ukraine, where the atmosphere was very different from the passion of the presidential elections. this time, they were free and democratic, and the atmosphere was very similar to what we see in our countries. the selection was not without its technical flaws. the inaccuracies in the electoral rolls and the simultaneous holding of parliamentary elections with multi-level local elections made the voting process long and complicated. ukraine should also set a limit on the expenditure of the pre-election campaign of the parties, which would reduce the potential for corruption and ensure fairer competition. the comparatively low level of support for the orange revolution by the ukrainian people can be explained by the fact that the pace of reforms during the year was insufficient. however, it is interesting that the pressure from russia over gas supplies and the blocking of ukrainian exports, contrary to what russia expected, was the motivation for supporting democratic forces. these forces are the only ones that can ensure the continuation of reforms. on the night of the election, yulia tymoshenko assured us of her readiness to form an "orange" coalition with the "our ukraine" bloc, inviting the social democrats. the european union, for its part, should confirm that ukraine's efforts to integrate into europe are appreciated. calls on the commission to provide all possible assistance to ukraine to overcome weak administrative capacity, effectively fight corruption and reduce the influence of oligarchs in politics, reform the judiciary and thus strengthen democracy;
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. my fellow citizens! the european parliament will vote today to approve the interinstitutional agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-13. it will be one of the most important and responsible votes of this parliament's session. the resulting interinstitutional agreement provides for a budget of eur 864 billion for the future financial perspective, or 1.05% of the european union's gross national income. this is significantly less than the amount initially supported by the european parliament, and will result in a reduction in the amount of funding available for both eu competitiveness, science and trans-european networks, eu regional policy and other areas. unfortunately, the debate in the eu council was set by six countries with the sole aim of reducing the eu's financial perspective expenditure to 1% of the european union's gni. however, the compromise also has several positive aspects. firstly, it is a flexible approach to the capping of eu funds, which the european parliament also supported in its resolution. as a result, latvia and estonia have been allocated additional funds from eu funds above the established ceilings, while lithuania has been allocated additional funds to address the programmes related to the closure of ignalina as. second, it is a calculation of that threshold using the forecast of the individual economic growth of each member state. thirdly, it is an agreement to allow the use of the structural funds also for housing projects. however, the 2% ceiling on the total structural funds, which is the same for all the new member states, is incomprehensible. it is understandable that, for example, the urgency of heating homes is much greater in countries with a warmer climate, such as estonia and latvia, than in southern countries, such as cyprus and malta. therefore, such a unifying approach is unjustified. fourth, it is a temporary replacement of the n+2 law by the n+3 law. of course, the application of such a law to the cohesion fund remains questionable. however, this agreement is very much needed by the new member states in the first place, and the european parliament has therefore shown flexibility in the overall amount of eu funds.
on behalf of the uen group i would like to thank mr howitt richard for the tremendous work he has done in producing this excellent report, which reflects the role of the european parliament in the european union's human rights policy strategy. an effective human rights policy requires the member states of the european union to pursue a common, consistent and transparent policy in their bilateral relations with countries that do not respect human rights. our relationship with russia as a strategic partner is very important. it is therefore essential that the report calls on the commission and the council to discuss human rights violations in chechnya in their negotiations with russia. the report expresses hope for the newly formed un human rights council. however, the election of cuba, nigeria and other similar countries raises concerns about the electoral mechanism and whether the council's work will be more effective than that of the commission on human rights, so the european union must systematically oppose the conferral of the presidency to such countries and the council must express the common union position.
on behalf of the uen group - the president! i can't disagree with many of the comments made in the report. what objection can be made to the strict observance of the terms of the framework agreement? it should be, and i personally support that position. however, if this approach were consistently followed, the history of the euro area would be very different, and perhaps even the number of countries currently represented in it would be different. one third of the current euro area member states joined the area in breach of this or another criterion. in essence, the admission criteria act only as a guide, and political decisions are the final decision. this is not surprising, since the economic justification of the criteria is in many cases quite questionable. for example, the inflation ceiling was set by non-euro area countries and, paradoxically, the best inflation indicators differed from the european central bank's view of the optimum level of price stability in the euro area. the requirement to ensure exchange rate stability together with inflationary indicators is even more contradictory to these criteria. the european central bank does not even claim to provide it in the euro area. the concerns expressed in the report about the potential problems of the candidate countries after joining the euro area cannot be attributed to small, flexible economies such as estonia, lithuania and latvia, which are also open economies with a long-standing fixed exchange rate experience since the early 1990s. if lithuania, with its slight deviation from the inflation criterion, is not accepted into the euro area, this is of course a political decision. i support the report if it is really aimed at improving the implementation of the criteria in the future. unfortunately, that is not the case. rather, it is the subject of a notorious polish plumber.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. ladies and gentlemen, this week, 14 june, marks the 65th anniversary of the most brutal crime and the most unimaginable violation of human rights in europe. in latvia, estonia, and lithuania, more than 30,000 totally innocent children, men, women, and men were treacherously herded into cattle cars to be deported to death camps in siberia. i am proud of the latvian people, who survived the hard years of occupation and always did everything possible so that we could be proud of how we live today. i do not want european sympathy, but i want the european public to understand the damage that soviet totalitarian communism has done to latvia and to europe as a whole. on 14 june, together with my colleagues kellam and lansbergi, i will be presenting a memorial plaque to the european parliament in memory of the victims of soviet totalitarian communism, on the 65th anniversary of the mass deportations to the baltic states in 1941. all are welcome to attend this memorial service on wednesday at 4:00 p.m. mr borella, president of the parliament, has also been formally invited to pay his respects to the deportees and to receive this plaque.
on behalf of the uen group ladies and gentlemen, the european union is interested in building good relations with russia. there are areas where this has worked. this is also reflected in some of the results of the may summit. one example of positive cooperation is the conclusion of a readmission agreement. the current situation, where illegal immigrants from russia could not be returned to this country, was not acceptable. the european union should also facilitate the conclusion of the relevant readmission agreement between russia and ukraine. because otherwise, illegal immigrants who cross from russia into the european union will be turned back and will remain in ukraine. building a good relationship is a two-way process. paradoxically, the european union and russia have now also concluded an agreement on visa facilitation. a visa, as you know, is a document that gives you the right to cross national borders. however, russia refuses to conclude border agreements with latvia and estonia, and thus also with the european union. in order to continue building constructive relations, russia must sign and ratify border agreements with latvia and estonia without exerting any pressure on the legally elected parliaments and governments of these member states. the concluded agreement between the european union and russia on visa facilitation cannot enter into force until russia has concluded border agreements with all member states of the european union. as regards visas, it is also important to provide for facilitation of entry into russia for residents of the european union's border regions. this would promote both the economic development of these regions and people-to-people contacts. it is very positive that all the energy security issues of interest were addressed during the summit. however, it is to be hoped that future attention will also be paid to restrictions on democratic freedoms and human rights in russia, where there has been a regression in recent years both in the freedom of the media and in the activities of ngos and other areas. the strengthening of democracy in russia is in the interests of the european union and, above all, of russia itself.
rapporteur. – mr president, the report on the framework strategy for non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all, which has been adopted by an overwhelming majority of the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, is a synthesis of the efforts of all those involved, including the representatives of all the large political groups. i am very grateful to my shadow rapporteurs, and to other colleagues, for their constructive suggestions. i hope that the proposals we have drawn up in the framework strategy for providing the equal and effective participation of all persons in the economic, social and political life of europe will become the key factor to overcoming the recent negative tendencies which are undermining the prospects for the sustainable development of europe in the 21st century. ignorance of the multicultural and multiethnic nature of modern societies leads to dangerous social tensions. the ethnic, social and linguistic diversity of european society should be perceived not only as a challenge for sustainable development but also as a source of creative potential and for the dynamic stability of modern europe. what are the key elements of the framework strategy? firstly, there are different ways of understanding the concept of discrimination, depending on whether it is viewed from an individual or collective point of view. at the same time, upholding the rights of citizens as individuals does not require the same action as upholding the interests of groups of individuals. we therefore stress the need to adopt specific measures intended to prevent or to compensate for the disadvantages linked to one of the grounds for discrimination listed in article 13 of the treaty. such measures should be extended to all sectors in which serious inequalities are found, whether in education, healthcare, housing, access to goods and services, or any other area. secondly, the detection of indirect forms of discrimination must be based upon reliable statistics relating in particular to certain groups with special characteristics. there is no conflict between personal data protection and the monitoring of discrimination through statistical means, insofar as the objective of such monitoring is to gain a better understanding of the over- or under-representation of certain groups in particular sectors or at certain levels and to measure progress in order to identify the need to act and to select the most effective course of action. we also stress the need for supplementary legislation. we greatly regret the fact that, despite repeated requests from the european parliament, the commission does not intend at this stage to come forward with further legislative proposals based on article 13. we insist that a new legislative tool, incorporating all the forms of discrimination set out in article 13, and having the same scope as directive 2000/43/ec, be submitted before mid-2007. we also call upon the commission to take urgent action against member states that have failed to transpose community law prohibiting discrimination, considering that new member states which have not transposed the anti-discrimination directives must be subject to infringement proceedings in the same way as the established member states. we also ask member states to take on obligations, without any reservations or restrictive declarations, under human rights treaties in the field of non-discrimination and the protection of persons belonging to minorities, as well as to honour such obligations in good faith. we consider that traditional national minorities urgently need to be protected by various forms of self-government or autonomy in order to overcome the double standards arising from the copenhagen criteria, on the one hand, and the lack of any rules in the member states, on the other. i am convinced that the european union must in fact have one of the most advanced framework policies in the world for combating discrimination.
for the ppe-de group - mr president! i'm not going to let you down. the report drawn up by mrs zdanok is important and welcome. however, the content of the report raises a number of questions and objections. firstly, i wonder why the report selectively highlights only two groups of society - the roma migrants and the disabled, who are potentially disadvantaged and who require special attention. but the conditions of refugees, asylum seekers and third-country nationals, who are increasingly arriving in europe, are not mentioned as being difficult and their integration should also be taken care of. secondly, i cannot agree with the thesis mentioned in paragraph 11 of the report, that migrants and roma should be initially involved at all levels of the community without first ensuring that they are integrated into society. this idea is contrary to european historical experience as well as to european values. and i wonder, were not those muslim youths who burned cars and demolished shops in paris last autumn french citizens? mostly they were, but can we really put our finger on their heart and say that they were integrated into society and embraced its values? it therefore seems to me that the emphasis in mrs zdanoka's report is not accurate, and that this makes the report unclearly targeted and biased.
on behalf of the uen group - i'm not sure. you guys! a few important comments on some inaccuracies in the report. the report calls for favourable measures to be taken against minors whose rights are not respected. there is an article that calls for guaranteeing and increasing the participation of roma and non-roma people only in all levels of elections. i agree that the roma group is disadvantaged in many parts of europe, but i do not see the need to single out the non-roma group. and even if so, it is not clear why the rapporteur is concerned only with the political rights and social rights of these two groups. it is surprising that the libe committee has not seen the bias contained in this report. even bypassing the discriminatory nature of migrants, third-country nationals or religious minorities of any origin. and now for the true plight of the underprivileged. the un high commissioner for refugees' secretariat has recently, on 9 june, in its annual statistical report, recognised that non-citizens in latvia and estonia are among other groups of people who enjoy the same rights and protection as citizens. in addition, it is specifically noted that latvian nationals with disabilities cannot be covered by the 1954 convention on the status of stateless persons. this contrasts with the false claim in part k of the report that rights of minors are denied and not respected. i want to ask you, what rights are being violated? do they not have the right to education, housing, access to services and goods? non-citizens in latvia have all these rights. this group not only has these rights, but also the opportunity to obtain latvian citizenship in latvia and estonian citizenship in estonia, which guarantees political and social rights. thus, statelessness is a matter of the will and attitude of the non-nationals living in these countries. it would be strange, even absurd, if the european parliament, in voting on the rapporteur's report, were to allow excesses to be initiated by unjustified and inappropriate rapporteurs. i would ask members to consider these aspects carefully and to amend the sections of the report that are tendentious or even inaccurate.
this is certainly a case where the work and cooperation of the commission, the presidency and parliament can be appreciated. today we can hope that the concerns related to the lengthy discussion of the financial plan, which led to the anticipated delay in the implementation of the structural funds, will not be met. i would like to stress here the particular importance of adopting the community strategic guidelines for the european union's cohesion policy and of completing the work on the legislation on state aid and on public-private partnerships. i consider that the compromise reached for the cohesion fund and erdf large projects in the transition phase, applying the n+3 principle, is insufficient and should be maintained beyond 2010 to 2013. i therefore disagree with the view expressed in the parliament's report on the cohesion fund regulation that the n+2 principle should apply to all funds, including the cohesion fund. it should be noted that the new member states lack the practical experience, including human resources, to manage such projects, and therefore the n+2 principle is difficult to implement. support the development of a closer link between cohesion policy and the lisbon strategy. both these policies are intended to boost economic growth and competitiveness in employment.
on behalf of the uen group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: first of all, i would like to thank the honourable member for the excellent work he has done in bringing about a compromise between many and very different points of view. i think that the most important thing for those here - mostly the members of the european parliament's transport committee - would be to find a way to agree on a text that is acceptable to the council after six years of work. in a business sector as growing as aviation, delaying amendments and regulations that set technical requirements and administrative procedures is no longer acceptable and inexcusable in my view. for this very reason, and because of the development of the sector, we must insist on a two-year deadline for completing the section q evaluation. as regards the compromise reached with the council on the so-called non-regression clause, i think it is sufficient and i did not believe the fears expressed by the european union member states that they might reduce the safety standards for the flight time limit to the lowest mandatory standards in the european union. finally, the mutual recognition of pilot training programmes throughout the community and the possible licensing of pilots will have another very important effect, in addition to improving aviation safety, which is often discussed in parliament and particularly in its left wing. it will enable the profession to compete within the community and to benefit from more equal pay and social guarantees, whether they come from the new member states or the old ones. i'm gonna give the rest of the time i have to the honorable member for the record so he can see his pick in action.
mr president, i should like to congratulate mr lambrinidis on his excellent report. the verts/ale group fully supports its main ideas. the proposal to call on member states to encourage political participation by immigrants is particularly important. we believe that long-term resident immigrants should have the right to vote in local and municipal elections. it is regrettable that not all political groups fully support such measures, without which, in our opinion, immigrants will remain politically and socially isolated. the commission should therefore undertake a legal review of member states’ current practices in this area. we shall all have the opportunity to see how the local elections are conducted in our host city, brussels. all non-eu citizens who have lived there without interruption for five years will have the right to participate. i hope that event will be an example of good practice, to be adopted by all member states in their election laws.
on behalf of the uen group the president! first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur who is not here and i would like to express my support for her position. we may not be familiar with the very different tax systems of the european union member states for passenger cars, but i am surprised by the argument from governments why these systems should not be changed and harmonised step by step at the european union level. the arguments are all different - fiscal, administrative, subsidiarity - but essentially, it's how i found my country's position on the project. there's a reason we have to change it if it's okay the way it is. i have always been a supporter of the principle of subsidiarity in the field of direct taxation. but can a small and medium-sized eu member state actually implement its tax policy on passenger cars with a specific environmental or energy efficiency objective? i can give an example of how, a few years ago, there was an attempt in latvia to drastically increase the registration and annual taxes for high-performance cars. and what happened, as is happening in other european countries, is that latvians registered cars in neighbouring lithuania. i am therefore convinced that the reduction of co2 emissions or other environmental objectives in this area can be achieved at the level of the european union rather than at the level of individual member states. and finally, given the very different views of the governments of the member states of the european union on this issue, i think that parliament should take a very balanced step with a wording for this draft directive which would be acceptable to the council on the basis of unanimity, so that it does not overrule the council on the substance.
i would like to point out that this report is, of course, full of sound findings and rather worrying predictions, but i would like to talk not about the fact that each of the european member states has socially different social systems, but about two specific groups of people. i represent a country whose people have helped prevent the chernobyl nuclear disaster, and these people need help right now. they participated in the prevention of this disaster in their own time, knowing that they were saving humanity, helping ukraine and europe as well. today, the latvian state does not have enough funds. the latvian state social system has no means of helping these people once they have become disabled. the second group is the population of latvia and other baltic countries, including eastern european countries, deported to concentration camps as a result of the soviet occupation. these people were denied a normal life, denied education, they experienced a slave age and slave labor. that is why it is not possible today to solve the social rehabilitation of these people with latvian funds, with the funds of the baltic states. if we are talking today about the european social model, if we are talking about solidarity, then i think that this model should reflect the additional social protection of these groups, which is transnational in nature and not imposed on the shoulders of one country only, which are already the poorest countries in europe.
you guys! the strong words here demonstrate the need to make cfsp decision-making more effective. there are a lot of good things in this resolution that we're going to pass, including the demand for the disarmament of hezbollah. but it's strange that this organization doesn't appear on the european union's list of terrorist organizations. this list includes the iranian resistance movement, the mujahideen, which we have repeatedly asked to be removed, but have been unable to do so. why isn't hezbollah on the terrorist list? or because hezbollah is represented in the lebanese government? is not the provocation of this conflict with huge losses a reason to speak openly about this subject? i would like to call on those who are currently responsible for the leadership of europe not only to be proud of their ability to concentrate resources on reconstruction and peacekeeping but also to provide precise and fundamental, honest answers to the causes of the conflict.
on behalf of the uen group commissioner, please! ladies and gentlemen, i would like to comment on the eu-china relations through the lens of china-taiwan relations and democracy. it is no secret that china has refused to engage in direct dialogue with the democratically elected government of taiwan. the european union should therefore call on china and taiwan to maintain a climate of mutual trust, using peaceful means to build relations that contribute to stability in the region as a whole. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. china must respect the fundamental human rights and freedom of political choice of taiwan's 23 million people. it is a punishable d'hondt sword on taiwan, under chinese law, for the legitimacy of the possibility of occupying taiwan. ladies and gentlemen, one chinese concept, i think, is to replace the notion of peaceful merger with a more appropriate one, a peaceful solution. the deployment of approximately 800 guided and other missile classes off the southern coast of china, facing the taiwan strait, should be significantly reduced. this is a threat and a stress for the taiwanese people. as a result, taiwan must take arms control measures that deprive the economy and society of significant resources. the eu arms embargo must be maintained. the withdrawal will be interpreted as an incentive for further strengthening of china's military. this could have serious implications for stability in the asian region and for the escalation of arms-spending structures. lifting the arms embargo would not promote the desired democratization of china. the one-party regime has little incentive to stop the still-substantial human rights violations.
on behalf of the uen group first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very well-written and balanced report. there is no doubt that an efficient european union labour market is still only a matter of the future. the european qualifications framework will be an important step in this direction, in order to create the preconditions for the creation of a single labour market and a single training environment. there is no doubt that the comparison of qualifications would not only promote labour mobility but would also give the labour market a different quality by ensuring an efficient placement of labour. a qualification framework would help to link the education systems of the national member states much more closely to the requirements of the european union labour market. these measures are directly aligned with the lisbon strategy and objectives. the latest enlargement has seen an unprecedented increase in labour mobility in the european union. jobseekers have moved from several new member states in central and eastern europe to the uk and ireland, the only old member states to open their labour markets without restrictions. in fact, the current situation is unique in that it is necessary to assess the need for a european comparison of qualifications. the substantial wage gap has encouraged thousands of highly qualified jobseekers from central and eastern europe to take up simple, low-skilled jobs. a recent study by the irish department of enterprise, trade and employment shows that most employees are working in jobs that are lower than their professional qualifications would allow. many employees with university degrees work in jobs that require a few hours of basic training. these are the difficulties of comparing very different education systems. they are both lost resources in the countries from which jobseekers come and unused resources in countries where they cannot use their professional skills. i hope that the european qualifications framework will encourage those member states which have active labour mobility between them to be pioneers in bringing the framework to life and in comparing qualifications, and these member states will not be the only ones. thank you.
if, seven years after the adoption of the programme, the strengthening of the european union's external borders to stop uncontrolled immigration is still an unresolved problem, it is clear that the european union's common immigration policy is still a question of the future. the arguments used to justify uncontrolled immigration do not stand up to criticism. immigrants do little to stabilise adverse demographic trends in europe, as unemployment rates among them are significantly higher than overall rates. the fact that unemployment rates among second world immigrants continue to follow the same trend shows that member states' immigration policies do not include the integration of immigrants as a task. in fact, the labour market is often closed to immigrants, which forces member states to open up social security systems. this in turn acts as a call signal to immigrants in donor countries. a common european immigration policy. in the near future, a comprehensive and structured immigration policy needs to be agreed in parallel with a substantial improvement in the european union's external border controls. it should be based on an assessment of the labour markets of the member states and the potential of the member states for the integration of immigrants. in the medium term, in order to improve the quality of assistance programmes for key third world countries, member states must be able to agree on a major revision of the european union's current export and import policies, in particular in the area of agricultural products. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group madam president, mr solana, distinguished colleagues! there is no doubt that stability, peace and security have been seriously affected by this nuclear test. but again, we can remind you of this, we can warn you, and of course we can condemn you here today. it must be said that in this situation, there should certainly be support and appreciation for all those who have responded quickly to this particular situation created by the actions of north korea. but on the other hand, i was not convinced by the speeches of mrs waldner and mr solana that the causes of north korea's actions were being fully analysed. of course, we all know that north korea is a totalitarian, communist state, and therefore, sanity, common sense, may not be a characteristic of such a regime. however, on the other hand, i might also like to ask the kind of provocative questions that i was asked a few days ago when i read mr baradei, the head of the atomic energy agency, or our watchdog, in the mass media. i read one of his articles, and he said that really, all the problems are rooted in double standards. and here i would like to ask our foreign ministers whether they agree with baradei's statements that the united states and the european union countries are pursuing a dual policy towards israel and towards countries like iran or north korea, because, without a doubt, israel may have weapons of mass destruction, israel may have this defense system, but other countries that are not members of the npt are denied such possibilities.
on behalf of the uen group mr president, it is as if you were looking forward to the fact that the european parliament will be examining these three documents at its october partsession and that we will probably reach a decision in a sufficiently short time, which will also mean a joint decision. however, in praising the rapporteur's principled position, which is based on the traditional position of the european parliament, in debating matters of real importance and also on matters which, in my view, are not so important as the location of a community agency, we have in fact forgotten the communication with society and the time spent. the public in the new member states find it difficult to understand why technical, financial and human resources will be spent on the internal borders of the new member states for two years longer than planned and why schengen rights will be denied to the citizens of the new member states until at least 2009. in fact, the citizens of the new schengen member states see the european union as a much greater symbol of unity than the constitution of the european union.
my fellow citizens! first, the lahti meeting was an indicator of european political unity. if we can speak with one voice on energy, it's a step towards a unified voice on foreign policy. second, another indicator is whether and how we can influence russian politics. russia is very clever in exploiting our fears when it comes to energy issues with the european union, but we forget that russia has an interest in our country: it has an interest in selling energy, in facilitating the visa regime, in taking advantage of all that european civilization, so to speak, has to offer. it should be used effectively to achieve progress in the areas of press freedom, democracy, human rights and investment parity. thirdly, the policy of innovation. the potential of the new member states is currently not being fully exploited. the european institute of technology should be established in the new member state itself. the baltic states' centre for technology and environmental protection is the most appropriate place for this. thank you.
the swedish presidency's efforts to maintain continuity by continuing the discussion of the issues raised by the british presidency last year are to be commended. this is a subject for serious discussion. moreover, little progress has been made in these areas in the past year. the seriousness of the presidency's approach to energy security was demonstrated by the president of russia, who was the guest of honour at the event. the idea is welcome in any case, as it gave the heads of state the opportunity to hear not only the russian leader's views on the prospects for ratification of the energy charter and the risks to european investment in the energy sector in russia, but also russia's pressure policy against georgia and its understanding of human rights. a warm-up for the eu-russia summit next month. i hope that this meeting has been a sign of a growing awareness among the countries of the european union that the most effective way to make russia a willing partner for europe is to confront it with a single energy cartel. russia's economy today and in the future is built on the export of energy resources. and there is no doubt that the success of the presidency and the commission must be judged by its ability to ensure the partnership and unity of the member states in the union's foreign policy. thank you.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. first of all, i would like to thank the finnish presidency for organising this meeting, because informal meetings are a good place to talk about difficult issues. secondly, i think that, thanks to mr vanhanen's determination and initiative, we have also been able to talk about energy issues in a united way. however, i would like to draw your attention to two issues. firstly, i believe that the terms of the energy charter should be incorporated in the new eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement. especially since mr. putin mentioned it as a strategic contract. still, what should we do about ourselves? the sad experience of my country and my people shows that russia has never been shy about using force and pressure when it has been able to do so. i therefore believe that, firstly, we must work much more actively to create a single gas and electricity network in the european union. secondly, much more work needs to be done on alternative energy sources. thirdly, we must work on energy-saving programmes. i support mr schulz, who spoke very passionately about this earlier. another issue that was raised at the press conference. mr putin replied that the question of abkhazia, georgia and south ossetia was their own question. that's cynical, to put it mildly. we know very well that the russian army is also in the piednestrovie, that the weapons were provided by russia and that the leaders in all these enclaves are officers of the official russian structures. i think europe should take the lead... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, in my opinion, among all the reasonable political considerations referred to in the current text, there is one significant omission: the real-life situations of the individuals living in the areas concerned. those condemning the issue of russian passports for the residents of these regions would do well to remind themselves of the circumstances under which these people found themselves as citizens or non-citizens of newly independent states formed from the former soviet republics. these are republics whose borders, in the case of the caucasus, were arbitrarily drawn by stalin, or, in the case of transnistria, were changed under the molotov-ribbentrop pact. after the dissolution of the federal state, the ussr, no sequential transition period was set out during which people could have resolved issues such as family reunification, citizenship, and so on. these people mostly need russian passports to travel to russia, not to the eu, as was claimed.
my fellow citizens! russia's desire to influence the fate of its neighbours, who have embraced the western model of development, has been expressed both in its interference in the internal affairs of ukraine and in the case of moldova and georgia. the european union is interested in a peaceful solution to the conflict between russia and georgia. to this end, firstly, as the cis peacekeeping forces in south ossetia are unable to fulfil their mandate, they are to be replaced by international peacekeepers. secondly, russia should refrain from military exercises in the immediate vicinity of georgian territory. thirdly, the violations of the rights of georgian citizens, which begin to border on ethnic cleansing, as well as the blockade of georgian goods, must be stopped immediately. fourthly, in order to respect the territorial integrity of georgia, the legality of the issuance of russian passports in abkhazia and south ossetia should be reviewed in order to avoid a repetition of the piedmont scenario. finally, both countries should refrain from actions and statements that could contribute to the deterioration of relations.
the speaker. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you all for your ongoing cooperation and for the valuable suggestions you have made to jointly improve the commission's proposal for a thematic strategy for the protection and conservation of the marine environment. i very much hope that this report will make a real difference in preserving and improving the marine environment. i was pleased to see that the report also addressed such a sensitive issue as the environmental problems of the baltic sea. in the baltic sea, also known as the european inland lake, it is particularly important to preserve the balance of the ecosystem without allowing it to be further threatened, especially in view of the specific characteristics of groundwater recycling. i would like to emphasise that the european parliament must also carefully assess and monitor the development and construction of the baltic sea's environmentally hazardous gas pipeline. i believe it is important that the people of europe, especially those whose territories border the sea, can see for themselves the positive changes that will result from the improvement of water quality and cleanliness, the restoration of marine biodiversity and, finally, the development of a well-thought-out, balanced and sustainable management and development of the marine region following the adoption of this and similar legislative acts. i would like to emphasise that this report has been produced together with ngos and representatives of this field in the industrial sector, with whom there was extensive debate even before the deadline for submission of proposals, and many of their ideas were incorporated in this report. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask the european commission and ourselves to do less talking and more working and more concrete results so that we can all live safely on our own seas. from this point i shall switch to english and, speaking also for my colleague mrs korhola, who cannot be here today for this debate, share some comments and messages. the thematic strategy is decided on under the sixth environmental action programme. that is very necessary. as the commissioner has rightly said, for some time we have needed a strong, integrated eu policy on marine protection. the eu marine strategy directive will be an important new instrument in integrating the existing approaches. great things have already been achieved with the various policies legislation, programmes, action plans and various international conventions but still the state of the marine environment has been deteriorating at an alarming pace. we need more overall joint action. there are big challenges, such as the role of third countries, which might raise some questions. but if third countries turn out to be the biggest polluters and if they think of this as only a european union matter, how do we ensure that actions and efforts put in place by the member states produce good results when, for one reason or another, third countries do not cooperate? we have tried to address the issues in committee, but we shall only find out later how this actually works. the rapporteur, mrs lienemann, has done some excellent work, influenced strongly by the ngos, and she has been very environmentally ambitious. she has made some radical changes and integrated ideas into the report that were widely requested by the stakeholders. in general, the rapporteur has made the directive stronger and more concrete, more ambitious and effective. she has added the much needed guidelines and criteria and has tightened up the time limits. building on the rapporteur's approach, we have a solid chance to make this a real environmental pillar for marine policy as planned. here are a few key elements of the draft report. the time limits and schedules for achieving good environmental status have been tightened up, from 2021 to 2017. general definitions of measures which member states are to take in order to achieve good environmental status are added and a detailed list of ges criteria is provided. there is no clear definition of european marine waters. the black sea has been added as one marine region in the directive. preparation timetables are tighter, as are programmes of measures. marine-protected areas are added, something that was not mentioned before. more emphasis is given to cooperation by member states in the same marine region in monitoring programmes, etc. more emphasis is laid on third countries in broadening responsibilities and deciding who should be involved. all in all, this report is making a strong point, from the european parliament side, that we need effective measures to tackle this important issue.
it is doubtful whether the 21 official languages of the european union, with the addition of another 60, will achieve the goal of real multilingualism as stated by the rapporteur, since the role of the welsh and russian languages cannot be placed on a par with each other. experience shows that the more widely and economically used languages are becoming less understood. just imagine if russian became an official language of the union. i am almost certain that we will not have to wait long for latvian or estonian languages to be completely banned, not only in the european union, but also in latvia and estonia. before we get to multilingualism across europe, we should set an example in parliament itself. how motivated are translators to learn the languages of smaller member states? how long does it take for a border guard to speak to you in more than french when you arrive in strasbourg, the heart of europe? i am convinced that we must start by strengthening the official languages of the smaller member states of the union, leaving the policy on minority languages to the member states. the european union will continue to be a union of nations, not ethnic groups. thank you.
it is common to see new laws as improving, strengthening and otherwise benefiting the functioning of the european union. this is not the case with the draft directive under discussion today. the previous european commission draft directive was based on the principle of the country of origin developed by the court of justice of the european communities and consolidated in the case law of private international law. the current commission is rushing to put the country-of-origin directive into the framework of the european union's strategic documents, including the lisbon strategy. but parliament holds the key to this opening of the european services market. the principle of the country of origin has disappeared from the text of the directive and the conditions of article 16 of the directive are similar in nature to the principle of mutual recognition, which in practice may prove to be too subjective and too narrow to open up the market in services. today, the european parliament will delegate to the member states the full responsibility for deciding whether, when and how the european union's services market will develop. we can only hope that it will.
on behalf of the uen group - my colleagues! first of all, i'd like to congratulate mr. alexander stuba on his excellent report. the enlargement of the european union to include the baltic states has objectively created the need for a renewed northern dimension instrument. the accession of new member states opens up unprecedented opportunities. the baltic sea region has the potential to become the most dynamic and competitive region in the world, and this will be a huge benefit to the entire european union economy in the implementation of the lisbon strategy. the northern dimension must become a permanent instrument, with the baltic sea region as a priority. it is vital to strengthen its inner pillar. the countries of the region can reduce their energy dependence on russia by establishing a common energy market, promoting the use of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency projects. it is essential to involve all interested member states of the european union in the development of new energy projects and to carry out an international environmental impact assessment so that we do not again find ourselves in the situation that the potential development of the northern european gas pipeline is currently in. building cooperation with russia is a key challenge for the northern dimension. the baltic states have a long history of relations with russia and a wealth of experience that can yield good results. russia is currently one of the richest countries in the world in terms of resources and is still receiving assistance from various european union programmes. this approach is replaced by the principle of parity and cooperation. the northern dimension needs a stable financial backing to fulfil its tasks. and in this case we think differently than the previous speaker, we think that we need a separate budget line, complementing the existing resources from different sources. this would allow the development of much needed infrastructure projects such as rail baltica, the baltic motorway and others.
colleagues, the conclusion of a new partnership agreement with russia is an important step in our cooperation, which will also help to solve the energy issue. however, in the name of good relations, we cannot ignore the many requirements that russia must meet to make this cooperation possible. we cannot ignore the fact that russia's shrinking democracy is shockingly restrictive of freedom of speech and the press. there's an increasing number of intimidation of political opponents, murders of journalists. thirteen have been killed in the last seven years, but not one journalist's murder has been solved. at the same time, the russian authorities do nothing to combat racism and xenophobia. on the contrary, violence in russia has become part of the system of government. russia uses trade as a foreign policy tool, setting very high standards for partners, but using them selectively. the european union must ensure that russia takes a genuine initiative to resolve these issues and that border agreements with estonia and latvia are concluded without delay. and such a demand must also be reflected in the documents, and i thank the commission for raising these issues.
thank you, mr president, madam commissioner, madam minister! i think the work that you did at the summit, and what you talked about, it was all very good. but of course, we wanted to start negotiating a new contract. why would you do that? because, of course, we want the security of power plants. but i don't think that we should ignore any of our countries. this is where we need solidarity. i just want to point out and name a few examples from the last year that i think show that russia's approach is selective. starting with the january 1st gas well closure in ukraine, we then learned that the wines from moldova are no longer valid, but the wines from piedmont, where the same technology is used, are valid. then georgia doesn't listen suddenly, a small thing blows up a gas pipeline on the georgian border, and the gas is no longer delivered to georgia for a week or two. lithuania is selling its shares in mažeiki to poles, not russians. suddenly, the oil pipeline splits, and there is no more oil in the majeiko. almost all of latvia's canned fish was withdrawn from russia. our sanitary food inspectorate has tested canned food produced in russia both in our country and in germany and found the same increase in these substances that russia has told us. so i call these examples that russia unfortunately always finds a reason to warn or suspend or impose an embargo. i therefore believe that it is extremely important to incorporate the safety of these power plants in this new agreement. and good luck with your work!
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, there has been promising progress in the overall effort to combat the hiv/aids epidemic, including improved access to effective treatment and prevention programmes. nevertheless, the number of people infected with hiv or dying from aids continues to rise. nearly 40 million people were living with hiv at the end of 2006, 2.6 million more than at the end of 2004. in 2006 alone, an estimated 4.3 million adults and children were newly infected with hiv, 400,000 more than two years earlier. sub-saharan africa continues to be at the forefront of the epidemic. more than 63% of all adults infected with hiv currently live in sub-saharan africa, 33% of whom live in south africa. however, the largest increases over the past two years have been in east asia, eastern europe and central asia, where hiv infections have increased by 21% over the same period. the continuing increase in the number of newly reported infections in most member states of the european union and the results of the 2005 eurobarometer survey underline the urgent need to increase the level of knowledge about epidemics within the european union and in neighbouring countries and to further strengthen prevention programmes in this area. priorities for strengthening prevention, treatment and care in this particular region are set out in a strategy adopted by the commission in 2005. despite these alarming figures, hiv prevalence has declined in several african and caribbean countries, as well as in certain areas of south asia. it is possible to change the trend. worldwide, more women are living with hiv than ever before. in 2006 alone, the number of infected women reached 17.7 million, with an increase of more than one million cases in the last two years. in sub-saharan africa, the situation is even worse, with 60% of adults (15 years and over) infected with hiv being women. in addition to biological factors, social and economic factors contribute to the fact that women and girls are much more vulnerable to hiv infection, due to gender inequality and the neglect of their rights. the empowerment of women is a major social challenge and a necessary precondition for equitable development and increased hiv prevention. to ensure access to sexual and reproductive health for girls and women worldwide, health services in developing countries need to be strengthened to provide treatment, care and support as part of a comprehensive package of voluntary counselling and testing. access to treatment and care has improved significantly in recent years, starting at very low levels in most countries. in almost four years, the widespread provision of antiretroviral treatment has saved 2 million lives and initiated treatment for approximately 8,000 people in sub-saharan africa alone. however, despite these positive developments, the situation is worrying and requires increased attention from the international community. e european commission is providing intensive assistance to partner countries in africa and beyond to combat epidemics through integrated prevention, treatment and care. however, hiv/aids cannot be treated as an individual problem, as it highlights all the major problems of developing countries, limited access to basic social services, gender inequality and unequal distribution of resources, poor governance and low levels of economic and technological development. hiv/aids is closely linked to two other infectious and poverty-related diseases, malaria and tuberculosis. hiv/aids can only be successfully tackled if partner countries tackle these diseases in the context of poverty reduction efforts. an integrated approach to hiv is a key principle of the european policy framework adopted in 2004 and the european action programme to combat hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis adopted a year later. the implementation of the european action programme requires coordinated action by the commission at both national and global level, with the partner countries being the ones best placed to decide how to allocate resources most effectively between the different initiatives in an efficient, fair and transparent manner. the commission has increased and is increasing its contributions to the fight against hiv/aids in all developing countries over the years, and in africa in particular, where it provides assistance to partner countries through budget support in their efforts to address the structural factors underpinning the hiv epidemic, such as healthcare reform and the human resources crisis in the health sector. at the same time, the commission invested significantly in the fight against hiv/aids in developing countries through the global fund to fight hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria, totalling eur 522 million over five years, as well as through other initiatives. during 2006, the commission's role in the global fund was fully confirmed by the election of a member of the management board from the european commission to the post of vice-president of the fund. the commission has traditionally led efforts to improve access to antiretroviral treatment in developing countries and to make treatment and prevention fully available to those in need by 2010. the european commission has played a key role in bringing down the price of pharmaceutical products. in some cases, reductions of up to 98% have been achieved through the introduction of a tiered pricing mechanism that allows developing countries to pay lower prices for patented medicines, while protecting manufacturers from re-importing these products back into profitable developed markets. also within the wto, the european commission is supporting the rights of the poorest countries with limited production capacity to import cheap generic medicines produced under compulsory licences. the commission is also increasing investment in the research and development of vaccines and other prevention tools, such as microbicides, to expand the existing spectrum of hiv prevention mechanisms. the commission will continue this effort with the aim of making prevention and treatment fully accessible to all those in need by 2010. as mentioned above, the commission has committed itself, together with the member states, to combating the hiv/aids pandemic through a set of measures aimed at prevention, treatment, support and care. we are fully aware that achieving the ultimate goal of an aids-free generation is not possible without strong political commitment, informed leadership and increased allocation of resources at the global, national and local levels. we face a huge challenge, which is to make further progress in the fight against hiv/aids and to ensure that prevention and treatment are fully accessible to all who need it by 2010. a more balanced strategy to increase prevention and treatment and ensure access to affordable treatment, especially for second-line patent medicines, is urgently needed and the political will of europe needs to be mobilised. there is a need to work more closely with the pharmaceutical industry, focusing both on the development of new prevention methods, in particular microbicides, which provide more prevention options for women, and on the affordability of new treatment products. there is a need to continue to stimulate pharmaceutical industry-led research and development of hiv/aids vaccines and other products. finally, we need to ensure that long-term and predictable funding is made available to partner countries to help them combat the hiv/aids epidemic. the european commission will continue to work in this regard through a wide range of financial instruments, both at country and global level, including the global fund to fight hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria. however, we need strong support and cooperation from all the institutions of the european union, including the european parliament, which are responsible for the annual allocation of financial resources. in the fight against hiv/aids, we have the opportunity to achieve better results, but we need the political will to do so. the european commission firmly believes that the ultimate goal of an aids-free generation and the provision of treatment and care to all those in need is achievable. i look forward to working with the european parliament to achieve this. (applause) thank you very much.
on behalf of the alde group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i am pleased that the commission has taken up the issue of the need for civil society involvement in all aspects of the fight against the epidemic in the first chapter of this communication. this fulfils the requirement of the dublin and vilnius declarations. information and appropriate services provided by non-governmental organisations to vulnerable groups in society through accessible support centres can significantly delay the spread of aids in the country. as rapporteur, i am concerned that in several of the new member states the existence of such a support centre is at present threatened by a lack of financial resources. it turns out that before joining the european union, these centres received multilateral financial support from various funds and organisations, including those outside europe, which now consider their charitable mission to be complete after the accession of countries to the european union. despite the commitment of the minister for health in the vienna declaration to use national financial instruments as well as community funds, including the structural funds, to fight aids, this has not been implemented in practice in several member states. as regards the structural funds, the management of civil society organisations points to the inability to provide co-financing. i believe that this is an urgent issue for both the member states and the european commission. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group thank you! europe's place in the global economic competition will undoubtedly be determined by its success in innovation, its ability to apply it and its ability to revitalize the business environment, especially in the small and medium-sized enterprise sector. europe must be proactive in driving global economic and social rules. for example, if we want to catch up with the us innovation landscape, which the european commission estimates to be 50 years behind, we need to fundamentally change the existing relationship between science and business, the regulatory role of business and government, and the models of science funding. restrictions, not reluctance, are the reason why most europeans want to be workers rather than employers. it is encouraging that the report emphasises the role of the single market in promoting entrepreneurial activity. the areas where the common market is not fully functioning are services and the free movement of labour. the task of promoting free movement of labour is to compare the diplomas and qualifications of the member states, which has become particularly relevant following the 2004 enlargement and the accession of bulgaria and romania. the report also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and corruption, and calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and corruption. thank you.
