thank you mr president, we are not talking about containers here, we are talking about people, my friends. this discussion is about a directive which, rightly, the european transport workers federation, is calling as unnecessary, provocative and unbalanced, with this the port authorities and the industry agree. it contains the worst elements of another proposal which this parliament has already rejected. instead, after that vote the commission dropped the matter altogether or, at least, came up with a proposal that pissed people off, came out with an even worse position. my vote will be against this directive because it undermines the rights that a category of workers, those on the coast, have so painfully acquired over a long period of time. i will vote against this directive, because it opens the door to abuses in the way certain workers are treated, as well as pits one worker against another. i will vote against this directive because it reduces health and safety in delicate places like ports. and we're so proud of our safety and security here, that we're going to do something to threaten it? i will vote against this directive, because i believe in balanced competition where everyone plays their part, and not where it is always the worker and the lowest-paid who do. i believe that even those who are in favour of liberalisation in portal services should vote for this directive to be repealed. this is because a vote in favour would be paving the way for an original directive which even these colleagues seem to agree has many flaws. let us give a strong signal that we are building a social europe and not a soulless system. the vote on the ports directive is a golden opportunity to give hope and direction to the many who are waiting for a signal from an institution like ours. i am proud that the maltese labour party and the european socialists group are consistently responding to this call, that the millions of european workers, including the hundreds of maltese workers represented by the general workers union, who are also here today and who are affected by this directive, tell them that we are one with them.
in writing. this is a directive which imposes regulations and controls which are neither necessary nor desirable. the directive as proposed puts the livelihoods of port workers in many countries, including malta, at risk. this is fundamental for us. as drafted, the directive brings with it a lower quality of services, lower levels of security and more threats to the investment that has been made or is yet to be made to improve infrastructure in several ports. contrary to what some members of the commission are saying, this directive will not create new markets, make competition fairer and, even less, open up new opportunities for workers. in fact, it will not only adversely affect everyone working in ports, but also other sectors of the economy. we must understand that the enlargement of the european union has increased the diversity of the member countries and therefore we must be careful when legislating not to lump countries together and assume that what counts for one country also counts for all. in solidarity with workers in malta and many other countries, we are therefore voting against this directive which is disadvantageous to workers and which, all in all, creates more problems than it solves.
thank you, mr president, commissioner, i would like to join my colleague in congratulating the rapporteur on his good work. this is a comprehensive report covering a very wide area. so i appreciate that his work was not easy. if i may criticize the report, i do not think that it puts the eastern european countries on the same level as the southern mediterranean countries. the report was written for the eastern countries and the parts on the maghreb and the maghreb were added later. in paragraph 33 of the report, the commission is even asked to clarify the definition of the link between the european neighbourhood policy and the euro-mediterranean partnership. and so i say, commissioner, if we in the european parliament do not understand well, and to what extent, european neighbourhood policy covers and includes the countries of the barcelona process, and if we do not understand how this policy complements our euro-mediterranean policy, then how can we expect our mediterranean partner countries to understand it. it is no wonder that many of the people who speak to me from the mediterranean countries, which are our partners, especially in my capacity as vice-president of the maghreb delegation, express to me their serious concerns about european policy towards neighbouring countries. the european union is a party to the barcelona process, but it is not a party to the barcelona process. probably because they fear that with the new fund, to be set up next year, the 'european partnership neighbourhood instrument', they will end up losing and not winning; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the funds are not used for the purpose of the eu's external assistance. these are all concerns that i share with our colleagues from countries such as tunisia and morocco. these are points which i hope the commissioner will be able to answer because they are serious and legitimate points. thank you.
thank you, mr president, i am sure that all those who work closely with the fisheries sector, particularly those who have to do with the mediterranean sea, appreciate and are well aware of the complexity of this region. a region with highly visible biological and environmental diversity with a diversity that leaves a large socio-economic impact on the inhabitants of the region. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. it is a matter of great concern to us that we are presenting this resolution because we know that the lack of this initiative by the council has put us in a position which is very far from our goal of sustainable development. this is a bottleneck from which we can only emerge if we adopt more responsible rules that are more in line with the common fisheries policy and thus our objectives can be more achievable when we bear in mind that the only management regulations have been in force for more than ten years and even then these measures were not good. it is of great importance to remember that we are at risk of not meeting international fisheries management obligations, especially with regional fisheries organisations, in particular the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas and the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. i therefore urge the council to apply without delay all these necessary measures and thus achieve the ideal balance in the mediterranean and thus guarantee the livelihood of fishermen. this will then allow us to turn our attention to other projects in the mediterranean. a region which, i repeat and insist, has unfortunately been neglected for too long. thank you very much.
thank you, mr president, i too would like to thank mr hökmark for all the work he has done to bring this report to a successful conclusion today. the subject of state aid is certainly one which gives rise to much discussion. this is because it directly affects the twenty-five member states. it is good to ask where we want to go in this reform and it is good to see what leads to the need for this form of reform. a close look at the commission's preliminary decisions between february 2004 and now and comparing them both with the objectives of the lisbon strategy and the presidency conclusions in barcelona in 2002 shows that it would be far more productive if state aid were more direct and targeted towards the objectives of the same commune. i therefore think we should work towards having a system that is as simple as possible in order to increase effectiveness and transparency. this would be an indispensable instrument because it would eliminate much red tape that has hitherto hindered the flow of this aid and undermined its purpose, in addition to increasing waste. we need to better plan the use of state aid so that funds really go where they are needed and not as before where there was a lot of money being wasted without desired results. we need to get to the point where the state has clear objectives where it wants to target its aid also in terms of the proportionality system. we must not forget that these funds are subsidised by all taxpayers and must therefore be allocated wisely, responsibly, so that their effect is felt more and more and is more productive. we cannot forget farms in regions that are disadvantaged by the logistical problem, as we do not have, for example, island farms such as the gozo region in malta. thank you again to our rapporteur for his work.
i am astonished that we in this parliament often try to find small flaws in europe, when everyone knows that this continent is the very light that is trying to export these fundamental, noble rights to other parts of the world. it should be noted that there has always been a debate whether human rights are rights that can be administered by the state or by a government internally or whether they are universal. it is clear beyond doubt that human rights are universal rights and no dictator, no state has the right to try to deprive man of at least the fundamental rights. the problem is how europe will use the means at its disposal to try to export these noble aims. and here we sometimes criticise europe for not using the rights it may have, the power it may have, economic power in certain cases, and at the same time we often criticise the administration, the institutions, for turning a blind eye to certain shortcomings. we must decide. we must decide whether it is the best way, preservation, or the force that can export europe that is economic. i conclude by saying that we must give our institutions every power to see how what we believe is linked to some coherence that can be enforced or exported by the community. thank you.
mr president, i come from a new member state. i support the compromise; to do otherwise would be socially and politically myopic. the way in which the majority in parliament seems to have converged in order to drastically rethink the services directive shows the relevance of this institution. we are converting a proposal that could have had disastrous effects on our societies – especially on those most in need – into a much more sensible one. we are still not fully satisfied; we want public services to be clearly excluded and we want clearer safeguards on other sectors. nevertheless we must admit that we have a much more realistic piece of legislation in front of us. we are renewing our agreement with the principle of freedom of movement of services and facilitating it, but we are agreeing that social rights come first. after our rejection of the port services directive, for the second time in a relatively short period we are showing our commitment to a social europe. i believe that mr whitehead would have been proud of mrs gebhardt and the rest of us.
mr president, it is rather ironic that we should be debating the services directive on valentine’s day, because, for the services directive – but certainly also for mr bolkestein – this must surely be a case of unrequited love. last month we overwhelmingly rejected the port services directive and, this time round, we could almost have done the same, were it not for the fact that the commission proposal will be transformed by this house into a compromise – not the best one, perhaps, but one which can still be workable and which, crucially, strikes a balance between our objective of opening up the services market and our intention of addressing the social concerns that are justified. i stress ‘justified concerns’ because we all know by now that this proposal has been plagued by scaremongering. coming from a new member state, this scaremongering seems like déjà vu. in my country, opponents of eu membership used to conjure up nightmare scenarios that foreign workers would invade us and take our jobs. the same cassandras played the same act in the old member states too, but now we know that the doomsday scenarios were just not true: they did not materialise, nor will they materialise with the services directive. the opening-up of the services market is good and we should say so loud and clear. it is good for business – in particular for smes – and it is good for jobs. we have a reasonable compromise. i say ‘let’s go for it’.
thank you, mr president, i think that despite being a day late the european parliament today must send its message of love to the people of belarus. it is a message to the people that we know, in fact, that they are being denied the freedom to choose who they want to lead. so far we have talked about elections. i think to be correct we should refer more to the following event as the vicious confirmation process. we must record that in recent months great strides have been made by the european union to take concrete actions in favour of the belarusian people. on behalf of the bureau of the delegation for relations with belarus i thank the council and the commission, but more remains to be done. at this moment we must be a strong support especially to the youth of the country. those authorities who want to restrict freedom know that young people are the main agents of change. the authorities even liquidated rada which represents belarusian youth in the european youth forum. this is an act that is ultimately reprehensible. the young people and the people of belarus have been reassured of our support and promised to be with them in the moment of trial.
the digital television era is supposed to be one of more competition and where consumers have a wider choice between quality services. unfortunately the digital heart of malta is turning into the creation of new monopolies where consumers are simply being asked to pay for programming of popular sporting events that until now were enjoyed for free. furthermore, we are seeing the formation of a situation where there is no interoperability between the different digital television systems. this means that it is very difficult to switch between systems with the result that consumer choice is being limited. moreover, our consumers are being asked to pay private operators to receive national stations that they receive for free to this day while the authorities still demand from them to pay the same amount for the television licence. the digital age should be one where information and entertainment are accessible to everyone and not to a minority.
in writing. although much has been done to improve emergency response to disasters, unfortunately i think there is still a long way to go, and therefore a collective effort must be made to be prepared to prevent disasters as much as possible. i think we all agree that when we commit ourselves to working to prevent disasters of national scale, we are also saving our countries and the european union from the huge costs that our current policies are facing. we must be prepared to invest both money and human resources to carry out a study that clearly identifies and, better, evaluates the places and regions most prone to disasters. we will thus be prepared for any eventuality that may arise and, as i have already mentioned, we will not only be saving many millions but we will also be fulfilling the moral duty to look after the lives of those most affected by these disasters. i believe that we must give political direction so that each country can count on the union's help to launch projects to improve the living standards of those living in these regions most subject to large-scale problems. i believe that prevention is better than cure, so we must focus our energy on being prepared for any eventuality.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. i welcome the quality of the debate and the proposals put forward by the members of parliament and i would like to reaffirm my willingness to work with you to pursue the objectives of the union and thus fulfil the task given to us by the european citizens. i can assure you that the commission will be determined to contribute to raising the profile of the social dimension of the lisbon strategy once again. i'd like to suggest these ideas for our future work. we must first improve the visibility of european coordination. we have succeeded in promoting a balanced approach which emphasises the need to combine social objectives with financial ones. this is a major benefit of our work and is crucial to strengthening citizens' confidence in reform. we need to deepen the partnership between the member states and the union. the european strategy for growth and jobs and the social agenda do not belong to the commission or the european institutions. they are based on the commitment of all actors, member states, european citizens, parliaments, social partners and civil society, as well as all community institutions and bodies. success in this partnership means a clear division of labour. member states shall implement at national level the reforms and structural policies agreed in the context of the renewal of the lisbon strategy. the union will continue to support reform efforts, making use of all new instruments, support from the structural funds, respect for fundamental rights, promotion of social dialogue and the identification of good practices.
rapporteur. – mr president, the report which i have presented for parliament’s consideration and approval outlines the main guidelines for the 2007 budget pertaining to other institutions. the main part of my report, however, is dedicated to parliament’s budget. the report places major emphasis on the need to consolidate what has been successfully achieved in these last few years. no major projects are being contemplated for 2007, which should provide us with enough time to carry out an in-depth stocktaking exercise and enable us to examine and evaluate critically and objectively what needs to be done in the coming years. in a framework of budgetary constraint, we need to implement budgetary rigour in all ongoing activities, ensuring added value for taxpayers’ money. i wish to stress the importance of the application of activity-based budgeting, which would result in more rational and analytical estimates. moreover, appropriations should relate to specific activities. this would help to avoid cancellation of appropriations at the end of the year. the institutions have to base their estimates on well-defined needs, avoiding duplication of functions, focusing on core operations and eliminating malpractice and all bottlenecks. in this respect, the institutions are invited to make better use of their resources, leading to more interinstitutional cooperation, which should be conducive to more efficiency and hopefully more savings. it is reasonable to assume that some administrative tasks could be shared amongst the institutions, without the latter losing their independence. this could create economies of scale and increase the effectiveness of services. another key issue in the report relates to information policy, which addresses parliament’s objective of bringing europe and its institutions closer to its citizens. in order to improve the perception that the citizens have of the union, the implementation of an effective, strong information strategy is crucial. having said that, however, i still contend that in any information project particular attention should be given to the extent of participation and cooperation of political groups, the pluralism of opinion, the value of its contents and its cost structure. in the final analysis, the level of success of any project will have to be measured in terms of its positive impact on eu citizens. in terms of staffing, keeping in mind the exceptionally strong recruitment exercise which took place in the last three years and the streamline software system, which should be in place by the end of the year, it would be justified to assume that with the exception of enlargement and an extremely limited recruitment of specialised staff, no new employment should take place in 2007, which would result in real economies in the future. in my report i also addressed a number of additional priorities for 2007, relating mainly to buildings policy, enlargement, assistance to members, a statute for members’ assistants, and training. regrettably, in view of time constraints, i will be unable to deal with all those topics in any detail. it is unfortunate that this budgetary procedure starts in a context of uncertainty, due to the absence of a new interinstitutional agreement. understandably, we should do our utmost to reach an agreement on the financial perspectives but not at any cost. we cannot and should not pay lip service to high-flown buzzwords such as ‘growth’, ‘employment’, ‘research’, ‘social solidarity’ and ‘enlargement’ and at the same time not provide the funds or flexibility to achieve them. in other words, if we really mean what we say, we should put our money where our mouth is. moreover, and under these circumstances, it would be advisable, at least at this stage, to work on the assumption that we will be retaining the self-imposed ceiling of 20% of category 5 expenditure. having said that, however, we know that the self-imposed ceiling is not an irrefutable and fixed law. in future we should not be hesitant to challenge and review this agreement if we are truly convinced that it makes more financial and budgetary sense to do so. in conclusion, i trust the various guidelines highlighted in this report, if effectively adopted, will improve the efficiency, quality, performance and transparency of the european institutions, offering more added value to the european citizens and hopefully more added value to the institutions’ credibility.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on her splendid and bold work. this report sends a clear and strong message to citizens that the european parliament wants them to have easier access to eu funding. a lot of importance is given to the debate on the financial perspective, which is about how much money will be in the eu budget. that is fine, but we should not neglect the equally important issue of how that money should be spent and how we can make it easier for citizens to benefit from it. what is the use of speaking of large sums of eu money when people on the ground are feeling increasingly frustrated about excessive bureaucracy in accessing funding, long and incomprehensible applications and officials who do little or nothing to explain them? no wonder many people simply give up before even trying. that is wrong and we should change it. we should change it by reforming the financial regulation and making sure we make things easier and more accessible. that is what the rapporteur's report does: it introduces several measures to make access to funding easier and, in that sense, it turns virtual eu money that one may get into real eu money that one can actually access. that is good news for citizens, but it is also good news for ngos and small businesses. i therefore call upon the commission to be our ally in this reform. our message is clear: if we truly want to reconnect to the people, we should make things simpler.
it is unfortunate that as we move forward in the barcelona process, something comes up in the middle east that sends us backwards from the development we have achieved. but i would like to remain focused on our topic and i would like to speak as a member of the economic commission of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. i would like both the commission and the council to look at a study carried out by the university of manchester entitled 'sustainable impact assessment study of the euromed free-trade area'. this study has been discussed in the economic committee of the assembly and gives a worrying picture of the impact of the european union's policy of establishing a free trade area in the mediterranean. it foresees a rather negative impact on our mediterranean partner countries which are supposed to be benefiting and not losing from the barcelona process. among the negative effects, it mentions the possibility that in these countries there could be an increase in unemployment, a decrease in the level of wages, as well as a severe impact on resources such as water and biodiversity and other environmental impact. of course the report is not saying that we should stop or scrap the plan to set up a free trade zone, but it is saying that we need to take these negative effects seriously and take measures to counter them now before it is too late. i would therefore like to ask both the commission and the council to tell us what they think of this study and what measures they intend to take to address any negative impact that the plan for the establishment of a free trade area in the mediterranean may have. for example, the european union's policy towards these countries must balance trade with more intensive cooperation in the financial, social and educational fields, and also in the environmental field. the european parliament has also called on the commission to take part in the work of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly and to respond to the questions put by its members.
i too would like to join my colleagues in thanking professor tracatelli for the excellent work before us today. having a country with a health system is a priority for every government because this sector affects everyone without exception, it is a sector without borders, a sector that is the pulse of every country. the charter of fundamental human rights lists this and emphasises that this area should be given the necessary attention and priority by the european union. the european union has a duty and an obligation to intervene and act by setting targets to improve the public health system, help prevent communicable diseases and try to eliminate any risk to the health of the community. and so it is very important to look at the community action programme in the field of health in an objective and distinct way, a way that can focus exclusively on this particular sector and we cannot afford to have one programme serving two different areas even if they may be related in some way. i'm afraid it'll lose its substance and become more fever than good. this also applies to the consumer protection programme, which is in itself a complex subject requiring particular and distinct attention. we want to have a programme that on the one hand promotes harmony in the health systems of different countries and on the other hand helps each country to achieve its individual targets. i cannot fail to mention the particular importance to be attached to the cases of people who send in with chronic illnesses and those who have a disability. we must ensure that they are not marginalised and, moreover, that they too have a high standard of living. we should have the opportunity to benefit from aids that make our lives easier and from research programmes that can be carried out to improve the conditions of those who have difficulties. we must also bear in mind the important role of carers of these people, and this through a programme we must ensure that these people have the necessary training to carry out their duties more efficiently. we have a programme that will be an important instrument so that patients can benefit from the best care and the best medicines. we have a programme that will educate european citizens and help them make the best choices for the benefit of their health. this programme will help to reduce the health disparities in the european union countries, so that each country has a higher level of service. yes, we have a challenge ahead of us, a challenge that must lead us to effective prevention, more efficient healthcare and a better quality of life.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, allow me to speak in my own language. meta nisma' diskors bħal dak li għadu kemm intqal, ninkwieta. u ninkwieta għaliex nara li ċertu elementi li qed jolqtu lill-punent u lill-amerika, prinċipalment għaliex dan huwa alleat fil-gwerra kontra t-terroriżmu, prinċipalment minħabba r-rikkezza tal-minerali jista' jagħti lok li l-gvern tal-kazakhstan iħoss li jista' jagħmel ċertu affarijiet b'impunità, u dan għandna noqgħodu attenti minnu. ftit ta' żmien ilu l-kazakhstankien applika sabiex isir membru tal-kunsill ta' l-ewropa. kont mort fuq missjoni, ġeografikament għandha parti fl-ewropa veru, imma kulħadd jaf li l-kredenzjali demokratika ta' dan il-pajjiż baqgħalu ħafna x'jitgħallem. min-naħa l-oħra huwa ċar li f'dawn l-aħħar żminijiet jidher li l-ambjent politiku mar għall-agħar. aħna nafu li f'temp ta' tliet xhur inqatlu żewġ politikanti mill-oppożizzjoni, nafu li d-drittijiet tal-bniedem qed jiġu b'xi mod jew ieħor imċaħda u għaldaqstant aħna m'għandniex niddeludu ruħna minħabba affarijiet bħal m'huma r-rikkezza u l-fatt li huwa alleat fuq it-terrur li f'dan il-pajjiż dak li jista' jsir, isir mingħajr ebda kontroll.
mr president, on 19 february 2006, a small group of young maltese members of moviment graffitti organised a peaceful protest in favour of peace and against war. they wanted to show their disapproval of the presence in maltese ports of five nato warships by simply displaying banners saying ‘peace not war’ and ‘warships kill’. the police authorities stopped these activists from showing these banners – a small and legitimate peaceful protest – on pinto wharf and on the grand harbour bastions. furthermore, the activists were allegedly told that such demonstrations would not be allowed in the future. this attitude is unacceptable and breaches the fundamental right of freedom of expression. this is why i have asked the commission to come up with an opinion on this case. we should show full solidarity with these young people and urge them to continue exercising their right to express their opinions in a peaceful manner.
thank you, madam president. the october square heartland is writing the history of their country. they are doing so because they are breaking down the wall of fear and apathy that has been reigning in belarus. this is a major blow to those who do not believe in democracy. and they are sacrificing everything: their jobs, their places of study, their families, their lives. despite the threats, the courageous young people of october square were able to make a day of sunday that has passed a feast of courage, a feast that will continue until at least next saturday. they demand that violence not be used against these people. this is not acceptable to us. a number of these young people have been expelled from the university for demonstrating. we must now put the solidarity we have spoken of so long into practice. if things do not change, we must give these young people a place to study at european universities so that they can continue their studies here among us. the words we have been saying for so long must be translated into deeds. the sign has been given and the writing is on the wall for anyone to read. nobody's playing themselves out of anything. now, from now on, the question is who is able to hold the most firmly. we cannot hide behind excuses. we cannot hide behind bureaucratic or diplomatic obstacles to help these democratic forces. the initiative to broadcast to this country is a good one but, frankly, i don't know what has become of it. moreover, we do not try to be complacent simply because we have taken the initiative. what is happening in belarus is our concern because it is happening in our home. thank you.
what my colleague from catania did not say was that the biggest and strongest complaint made by the immigrants who visited the detention centres was not the conditions in the centres, but that they never wanted to come to malta. they ended up in malta unwillingly and wanted to go to continental europe. and that is the tragedy. "let us go to other countries in europe", they told us one after the other. and so i say that it is right that through this debate and through a resolution, this parliament should show its solidarity with the immigrants as well as with the maltese people, with the maltese authorities and with the maltese law enforcement forces, who are doing a very difficult job. it is good that the political groups in this parliament show that they are able to come together to show this solidarity and to call on both the commission and the council to take concrete and urgent action. what is this concrete and urgent action? first of all: that member countries should receive persons applying for asylum and who are in malta. secondly, to revise the dublin ii regulation, so that the responsibilities of the member countries are distributed in a fairer way - not as is happening at present, where malta, and other countries too, are bearing a disproportionate burden that they cannot bear. thirdly: the commissioner also stressed that the european union's financial means are also used in cases of urgency. there should be an emergency clause in all but one of the four european funds we will have in the area of immigration from next year, and not just in the fund on refugees. and finally, mr president, i would like to ask the commission what has happened to the 'joint patrols' initiative in the mediterranean which was promised last year. mr president, the house is speaking: we will wait for the council and the commission to act. thank you.
apart from some recent initiatives, i feel that the union has not dealt with this tragic reality with the urgency, energy and concreteness that it deserves. the resolution before us reflects in an incisive, clear and objective way the alarming situation in malta and other countries. the document reasonably argues that immigration detention centres should be run on a basis where the dignity and rights of immigrants are protected. any deficiencies must be remedied immediately. but the resolution also makes clear that no country alone is capable of dealing with this problem, think of a country like malta, which is carrying a burden far greater than it can bear. the european dimension requires an integrated policy based on the principle of 'burden sharing', where the burden is shared between all member states in proportion to the size of the population and the gmp of the country. equally important is that there should be a review of dublin ii, especially in the immigrant application process system. but for this 'issue' to really start to resolve itself, the union must issue money and not just make promises. it is necessary to allocate the necessary funds to help small border countries to manage this issue. specific funds should also be allocated to meet emergency needs, especially when there is an excessive inflow especially in the summer season. the european parliament has shown its willingness to act by this initiative, and it is now up to the council and the commission to show their willingness to honour their pledges of solidarity. mr president, any action taken by the european union to help immigrants in a fair way and, at the same time, to help small member states like malta in a concrete way, brings with it more credibility and trust than a hundred thousand statements or a hundred thousand leaflets. thank you.
after the civil liberties and justice committee sent a delegation to malta to see the situation of irregular immigrants, today i am pleased to note that parliament will pay attention to the particular situation in malta. everyone present saw the difficult situation of all those who came to and are staying in our centers. but it also saw the great efforts being made by the maltese government to ensure that all those who arrive on our shores irregularly have appropriate treatment, despite very limited resources. it is clear that this situation must change today before tomorrow. we have all heard that this year the influx is expected to double and so the problem will continue to worsen much more. malta alone cannot perform miracles. we have been calling europe's attention for years to find the necessary solutions to this problem - not just financial aid, which i would say we have seen very little of, but more practical solutions, namely that the european union, of which we are members, should help us by absorbing the excessive influx of immigrants into our country. while we want to give prisoners the dignity they deserve, we cannot continue to waste our efforts and resources. the situation we face is critical and we must find solutions to avoid putting malta's efforts under too much pressure and not allowing the situation to get out of hand. today, then, from the beautiful words and promises, we must move on to the facts: the commission and the council of ministers, together with parliament, want to work towards implementing, as soon as possible, the solutions already mentioned by other members in this debate. the maltese government and people will continue to do their best but we rightly expect a real and concrete effort from everyone because i think that, in the end, this problem is not just malta's, but it is all the member countries of the european union.
mr commissioner, to be honest, what i said today has prompted me to start the speech i had prepared to address you directly on behalf of the commission. i don't think you can expect us, representatives of the maltese people, to come here and say 'thank you! "for giving us money, or giving us money, as much as we collect in one day for christmas charity. these are not things that reflect the true reality of our country. and second, they've gotten away from the most crucial question. a concrete proposal is being submitted: the dublin ii review, so that the applications of people coming to malta are not dealt with in malta but spread to other countries - what do you think of it? for we, in the end, want not just money (and again, not a lot of money,) but millions and substantial sums to give these human brothers and sisters the welcome they deserve. but, besides, really administrative and 'long term' help to solve this problem, what do you think about it? because what we want to know is what we are today.
mr president, i thank you for the opportunity to address parliament on this very important matter. unfortunately, malta was left to rot. during these difficult times, which are facing not only the inhabitants of our country, the maltese, but also those who are in detention. we felt we were swimming against the current; we felt alone; we felt that europe, despite the beautiful words of solidarity, had left us stranded. it was, or should have been, a delegation, that we had been asking to come to malta to see the terrible conditions in which these detainees are being held. unfortunately, this is not a pleasant thing to do, but it is a question of resources. measure yourself. . of . of when you say in malta there are a thousand people - who come every year, not a thousand, every year - it is as if you were saying that in germany there are 800,000, or in italy 400,000, a year! imagine the impact in a small country, one of the countries with no resources, what it has to suffer! we need financial aid, yes, we need financial aid, we need solidarity - solidarity that helps us by taking refugees to your country where you can, not like malta a piece of island of three hundred square kilometres, but where you can help us absorb the refugees themselves. i conclude by saying that we look to you as the first proof that there is indeed solidarity where the needs of a small country are concerned with the enormity of europe. thank you.
i thank you, mr president. first of all, i would like to thank the members, who made up 30% of the membership, for having listened to the speech of the president of malta out of respect for their country. i, however, stood up today to explain the vote on the report on the european capitals of culture. yesterday there was a meeting, i had to speak - for some reason i did not have the opportunity. in fact, i would like to say that i abstained, and i also abstained, because our country, when you look at the list of countries that can be nominated, has been placed last of the new countries and first of the last of all the countries in europe, including the two new ones that are to join. and i think it was not appropriate to put malta in a position where to nominate, at least 12 years have to pass. thank you.
persistence and persistence must be the main means in our work during the coming time. the hope of the minsk regime is that, as time goes on, the more the story about belarus will slide down in the importance of the international media. they hope that the european peoples will forget the heartbreak of this brotherly people. this should not happen, and we, as the european parliament, have the duty to be the memory and conscience that also warns the other european institutions so that none of us forgets the plight of these people. as i said during the last session, i am pleased to note that the call to look at the students who were expelled from their universities for taking part in the demonstrations and that we should provide them for their education in our country is being welcomed and we should go further than that. i am also pleased that the proposal on the asset freeze is being welcomed. this was one of the proposals that the delegation for relations with belarus had been making for some time and, if one looks at the action plan that we put forward over a year ago, one will surely find more proposals. mr. milinkevich, we will never allow you to disappear.
mr president, i think we should all be a little bit ashamed of ourselves because we are living in what we are calling a diplomatic society and civilisation, which is supposed to be one of the most advanced civilisations in the history of the world. yet we look on helplessly as victims – women, children, innocents – are being slaughtered. we talk about it, we debate it, and we try and delude ourselves that the united nations is doing something. the united nations cannot do anything. we are realising that the united nations, when faced with a regime that is prepared to do anything, whether involving nuclear arms in one country, or genocide or partial genocide of innocent people in another, cannot even visit the site where atrocities are taking place. on the other hand, we are witnessing independent action being taken by the military of a country, as happened in iraq. and we are now calling for the americans and the europeans to save the innocent people in darfur – and we are condemning the americans at the same time for what has happened in iraq, which was not the best of regimes. i shall conclude by saying the situation is so grave that in my country, malta, one third of the refugees – and we had a debate and vote on it during this part-session – come from darfur. that gives you one example of how desperate the situation is.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, i find myself in rather an uneasy situation in that i agree with most of what the rapporteurs said on the general thrust of the report and whether or not a discharge should be granted with our vote tomorrow. i support the pse group line in this regard. nevertheless, i am here as draftsman of the opinion of the imco committee, and from that point of view i must congratulate the way in which the dgs which we examined – sanco, taxud and markt – behaved on the issues which were pointed out. one has to point out the fact that the court itself did not single out any observations on the issues regarding implementation on consumer protection and on internal market and customs policy. nevertheless, the committee calls for a more transparent but flexible approach to the way grants are given and eu funds administered.
mr president, in the light of the serious allegations concerning the rent and purchase by the european parliament of two buildings in strasbourg, this house must emphasise that it is taking immediate steps to investigate these allegations in a prompt, rigorous and transparent manner. we should not commit the mistake of jumping to premature conclusions. this is the time to investigate, to ask the questions and to get the answers so that we can throw full light on what has happened. let there be no doubt that we shall be asking all the pertinent questions and we shall expect full and adequate replies. if it is found that parliament was indeed overcharged, then we shall not hesitate to say as mr pomés ruiz reminded us, that we want our money back. this is taxpayers’ money and we shall certainly ask for it to be paid back. i support the rapporteur’s proposal to vote against the discharge and consequently postpone it because we have no other option. this could have been avoided had the budgetary control committee been informed about these allegations before adopting its report on the discharge of parliament’s budget a month ago. in the event, the budgetary control committee adopted its report in blissful ignorance of what was going on. so our immediate task is to investigate these matters urgently, thoroughly and transparently so as to ensure that the financial interests of the european union, but also of european taxpayers, are adequately protected. this is what taxpayers expect from us today. (applause)
mr president, discussions on state aid and its role in today’s economic activity have been going on for ages and must continue, not least now when our major economic competitors are stepping up their aid for innovation and research and development to create a more competitive environment. we are feeling the results of this here in europe today. in order to close the gap between us and our global competitors, there needs to be an increase in public and private investment facilitation for our companies engaged in research and development, and there needs to be increased dissemination of results. the points raised in the report by my colleague justify the very strong link between this lack of innovation and our inability to maintain the targets set in the lisbon strategy. one: we need to take the regulation further; two: we need investment in education and training; three: we need adequate infrastructure; four: we should facilitate access to risk capital. these four points must be taken into serious consideration, not only as topics to discuss, but ones on which we must act urgently. with the us and asia now exercising such authority in the innovation sector, we must act now. i would also like to stress the importance of smes within our economy and the difficulty that they face in investing in r&d. it is necessary that we provide them with the means to invest, not only by providing funds, but by providing, for example, incubator centres and forums where they can network, thus providing them with a means to stimulate growth.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. in my last speech on bulgaria's eu accession process, i said that there is still much to be done and much more reform to be done. i had mentioned organized crime and the trafficking of children to western countries. the bulgarian authorities seem to be addressing both these problems but there must nevertheless be more consistency if we are to see more concrete results. i am informed that, apart from the deep-rooted corruption, there are still insufficient controls on drug trafficking, especially heroin from afghanistan, as i have already been told, which is being sold at astronomical prices to the northern countries of europe. the chairman of the bulgarian national assembly, george pirinski, said earlier this week that the european union should use the same metrics as the 10 countries that joined in the latest enlargement. i think we can all assure pirinski and the bulgarian people that the european union will not only see to it that this measure is used but will do everything possible to help bulgaria meet its necessary criteria. it is also worth adding that the european union will never accept any candidate member whether it is bulgaria, romania, croatia or turkey, to become a member of the european union as they do not meet the membership criteria. i regret to say that, for example, the reform of the judiciary has not progressed as much as needed and that matters such as the independence of the judiciary still need to be clarified. it takes a lot to get where we want to go. finally, i think, mr president, that the bulgarian authorities should take this opportunity to continue to carry out these necessary reforms as soon as possible. this is so that we can welcome them here with us in 2007. thank you very much.
it is clear that europe is becoming more visible and more active in addressing the issue of human rights. but how much of the damage being done around us is being addressed and europe shows a sense of responsibility is debatable. it is also clear that many of the different institutions give the impression of acting on their own. i am not referring to the council, the commission and parliament, but to the banking institution, for example. i think europe should use the strength it has. there is compatibility, i believe there should be collaboration between what concerns human rights and the economic health or the health of the aid that europe should give. i appreciate the difficulty. i would like to conclude by referring to the fourteenth paragraph of paragraph 90 which reads: 'welcomes the choice of freedom of expression as a major human rights theme', i would like to say this as in countries, in malta, two journalists have just suffered an arson attack, caruana galizia and balzan, and i would like to show solidarity with the maltese journalists against these attacks, which are a right attack on their fundamental human rights. i thank you, mr president.
rapporteur. – mr president, 2007, the first year of the new financial perspective, will be a year of spending consolidation in parliament’s budget estimates for the coming year. through this stocktaking exercise and consolidation process, we must strengthen what is proving to be efficient, and shed, or at least reduce, activities which do not add value. in this type of scenario, the implementation of activity-based budgeting commands greater importance. the report, moreover, stresses the fact that the budget should reflect actual budgetary needs. this explains why it is necessary for the retention or otherwise of the self-imposed ceiling of 20% to be evaluated thoroughly. we need to carry out a cost-benefit analysis to examine what serves parliament’s best interests, including its financial independence now and in the future, when the members’ statute amounting to circa eur 100 million per annum comes into force in 2009. this budgetary approach translates into more effective, transparent and analytical estimates, which leads me to another key issue in the report: the acquisition of parliamentary buildings. in this respect, and considering the recent events regarding the purchase of the wic and sdm buildings in strasbourg, we have no hesitation in putting into reserve the eur 50 million intended for the purchase of those premises. it would be inadvisable to release these funds until the outstanding and unclear issues surrounding those premises have been satisfactorily clarified. we do not wish to underestimate the positive financial impact of our acquisition policy. we have repeatedly commented on the substantial savings this policy has created over the years. nevertheless, it would be prudent to consider re-examining the overall acquisition policy of parliament’s buildings, including the information offices in the various member states. the report also addresses the issues relating to the visitors’ programme and information policy. regrettably, no decision has been taken on the eur 5 million allocated to improving the visitors’ programme. this situation is untenable and members expect the bureau to take a decision prior to first reading. in 2006 parliament decided to invest in three major information projects, which included the building of a new visitors’ centre, audiovisual facilities and web television. in this respect, the administration has put forward for our consideration funds amounting to eur 25 million to implement these projects in 2007. in principle we agree that more needs to be done to improve connectivity between the citizens and the new institutions that represent them. however, more precise and detailed information regarding political oversight, organisation, cost structure and programme contents have to be submitted before releasing all, or some, of these funds from the reserve. bearing in mind the existing budgetary constraints, we are not as yet convinced that the request for an additional 74 posts is justified, especially at a time when we are advocating spending consolidation. under these circumstances, the respective appropriation has been put in reserve until detailed information justifying this request is available prior to first reading. on another level, it is to be noted that eur 48 million are being allocated for the accession of romania and bulgaria. in the event of a postponement, the financial impact of circa 24 million should be deducted from the 2007 budget. another important area we have focused upon in our report is that of the assistance and facilities available to members. in this regard, the administration will be conducting a quality survey on the service being given to members. we feel confident that the stocktaking process on the raising the game exercise, together with the survey’s conclusions, should go a long way towards improving this important aspect. in our report we have also referred to a number of other priorities that we have to address, such as training, recruitment related to enlargement, the assistants’ statute, security and contracts relating to external supplies. regrettably, i do not have the time to address all these points, but we certainly cannot ignore them. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleagues, shadow rapporteurs, coordinators and members of the committee on budgets for their cooperation and constructive participation in drawing up this report with the common goal of improving the performance, quality and accountability of parliament’s operation.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur again for an excellent report. we touched upon the very important issue of the commission’s role and whether the commission is delivering. i do not believe that it is the role of the commission to have millions of inspectors checking that everyone has switched off their lights! the role of the commission is to give the political imperative, to provide the instruments for member states and to raise public awareness, and we are delivering on that. we are coping excellently in this respect, because energy efficiency is definitely the first priority in the whole energy society in the european union and each year we are improving, but we should like to improve even more. the perception that was mentioned is wrong, because the commission is delivering strongly on this. let me turn to the issue of staff and the relocation of staff. the commission must fulfil treaty obligations. the commission is the guardian of the treaties. the treaties should be fulfilled and to do this the commission must have enough staff for all areas. therefore, it is not possible to move civil servants from one area to another as if by some miracle. as far as energy efficiency is concerned, there have been changes to the structure of dg-tren. we have a unit for energy efficiency and another for renewable energies. the number of staff has been increased and will be increased in accordance with the provisions in the annual budget. that is part of the budget-making procedure. i cannot accept this argument. the commission is doing what it can and is delivering on it. the report is excellent and will provide us with better opportunities to use the potential of the european union. perhaps we could be more ambitious than 20%, but we must now concentrate on seeing that is fulfilled.
energy savings imply a reduction of energy; energy efficiency means doing more with less. after the world was awakened by the enormous rise in the cost of oil which ultimately translated into rises in our petrol and diesel costs and unbearable surcharges in our electricity bills – as happened in my own country malta – we have all started to focus on the energy savings – alternative energies such as wind farms at sea, as is being proposed in malta – and energy efficiency. energy efficiency can be addressed to numerous aspects of our everyday life. for instance: buildings – the potential in efficiency in the building sector is of utmost importance; appliances – electric appliances such as ovens, air conditioners, kettles, toasters, etc. are becoming more efficient; transport – research and development have made cars more efficient in energy consumption. but unfortunately, the more energy-efficient cars are, the more expensive they usually become. consequently, the main problem lies in the implementation of this report if adopted. how are you going to encourage consumers to make capital investments, to change or purchase more energy-efficient building materials, cars or appliances? the only way is motivation of a fiscal nature such as tax credits, reduced vat, reduced licence payments, etc.
in writing. the adoption of the euro currency should be based on certain criteria. the time it takes a country to meet the membership criteria and the convergence period are required. the period that a country must undertake within the erm ii mechanism should be determined. a convergence rate should also be established. the adoption of the euro should facilitate the convergence of the economies of the countries. the majority of these economies are linked to the economies of the other countries of the european union. benefits of membership: cross-border price transparency; increase in competitiveness for the benefit of the consumer; the abolition of transaction costs; no exchange risk. the european union must ensure that the criteria used to join the euro area are the same for everyone and that the evaluation of the criteria is transparent. we must be careful not to fall into the trap of using the issue of euro area membership to fight other battles that have nothing to do with it. entry into the euro area should be based on the maastricht criteria and should have no other implications. we must be sure that the decisions we take here on countries are not helping to strengthen those euro-sceptics who are using the decisions of the european union to undermine the successes of the european union itself.
mr president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur for his work. flooding is becoming an increasingly common occurrence throughout the whole of europe, resulting in huge economic losses and sometimes even loss of life. this law will therefore be important because it will facilitate the coordination of european efforts to reduce such occurrences. the original proposal had a shortcoming in that it only made reference to flooding from river basins. in so doing it omitted altogether other types of floods, such as floods caused by heavy rainfall, but not necessarily from rivers. as a result the directive would have had little or no relevance for a country such as my own – malta – where we have no rivers but we do, none the less, have floods. floods in my country are commonplace, but they are caused by heavy rainfall. indeed only a few years ago my country benefited from substantial financial support from the european union solidarity fund in the wake of substantial damage caused by floods, caused in turn by heavy rainfall. it is very important that whenever a new law is enacted at european level, it must be drafted in a way that makes it relevant and indeed applicable in all member states, taking into account all their concerns and specificities. i am therefore grateful that the rapporteur, as well as the committee on regional development, have accepted my proposal to widen the definition of floods to make it more comprehensive and to ensure that floods caused by heavy rainfall are also incorporated within the meaning of this new law.
thank you mr president. i will not repeat what my colleagues have said. let me just ask you specific questions about things that i've said to you as well. we refer first of all to the tourism forum held in malta where you said that the 'streamlining' of regulations relating to the tourism sector would begin. what has this process of 'streamlining' led to? what have we got from these fifty-two different rules affecting the tourism sector? secondly, how can we do more to put pressure on the restaurant sector to be eligible for a reduced vat rate? we can talk and say many nice things but this sector needs practical help. but ultimately we have to get to these concrete measures. thirdly, has any study been carried out on the impact that the increase in visa fees for non-eu citizens to come to the european union will have on the tourism sector, on which many of the regions we represent here depend? finally, we also need to look at our regulatory environment, the way it is affecting the competitiveness of our ports in relation to cruise liners and the business that they bring with them. thank you.
in writing. i believe that groundwater should be seen and treated as an independent ecosystem and therefore we should gear up to maintain groundwater in the most natural state possible so as to guarantee the good quality of the supply of water throughout europe, and furthermore to minimise treatment of water which is supplied direct from source. we must assure that implementation is uniform throughout, especially as regards the water framework directive. we must address the question of pollution in our groundwater and the concepts employed should be well defined. the groundwater protection and the nitrates directives should be well implemented to protect in the best way possible the products produced by the farming industry. nevertheless we must ensure that duplication in provisions is avoided and thus the definitions have to be clear and well clarified. we must look forward to a common position that will ensure that threshold values are followed and adhered to. this will ensure better quality water for consumption and furthermore better agricultural products, which will as an end result ensure a healthier lifestyle for all the citizens of europe.
member of the commission. mr president, i am afraid that, as you know, the practice is that we do not release the individual positions taken in the council. the council takes decisions as a body and there was no such decision in that respect, which we regret. it is up to each member state to disclose its position. we have to present the picture as a whole, which is why it would not be productive at this point to start naming individual member states. it is a complicated issue and the position taken by each member state would have to be explained in detail. i regret that it would not be useful to present specific names at this stage.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the network of treaties which the european union has with third countries - association treaties, cooperation treaties, action plans under the european neighbourhood policy - is very much and very sustainably devoted to the question of human rights. human rights, the common values of the european union, are an essential part of these treaties. it is not just for legal reasons, but because this european union represents values which it also pursues towards third countries. this is of course also true of tunisia, and indeed we in the council have had legitimate concerns lately about the human rights situation in tunisia. i would also like to take this opportunity to express my regret to mrs flautre that she herself has been the target of threats by the tunisian security forces. the european union made its protest against these events very clear to the tunisian foreign ministry on 5 june. as in all relations with third countries with which we have treaties, the question of respect for human rights is a very important element in our relations with tunisia. this is also very clearly stated in the association agreement and the european neighbourhood policy action plan with tunisia. under the action plan, which has been in force since 4 july 2005, tunisia has made a number of very clear commitments in the areas of democracy, good governance and human rights. there is no doubt that the practical implementation of these commitments is of great importance for the further development of the european union's relations with tunisia. this includes the establishment of a subcommittee on human rights. we strongly urge our tunisian partners to facilitate the first meeting of this subcommittee on human rights in the coming months. the european union wishes to strengthen the dialogue on these important issues later this year. it is clear that the european union wants a tunisia like any third country that strengthens and increases its security and prosperity, making progress where there may still be deficits; this is particularly true of human rights in many cases. tunisia has - and this is a fact - quite good, impressive economic rights and social achievements in international reports, statistics and rankings. the eu expressly welcomes tunisia's efforts, in particular on the status of women, the right to education and other issues. it is important for the arab world as a whole that an arab country has made real progress in these areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union's borders. we also hope that we will cooperate constructively with tunisia, as one of the important countries with an exemplary impact on the arab world, within the framework of the new united nations human rights council. all this cannot, however, be ignored, as the human rights situation in tunisia is a cause for concern in many respects, in particular as regards the right to freedom of expression, association and assembly, and also with regard to the independence of the judiciary. the events that preceded and followed the world summit on the information society in tunis last november still cast a shadow over tunisia. we have publicly and clearly reminded tunisia of the european union's expectations of its human rights obligations and responsibilities following these events. in an eu human rights march in november 2005, we underlined our regret at the incidents at the world summit and reaffirmed our core concerns: firstly, an end to the blockade of eu-funded civil society projects; secondly, progress in the implementation of the programme on judicial reform; and thirdly, the creation of a subcommittee on human rights. these demarches were undoubtedly a first step and the commission and council have been closely monitoring developments since november. in fact, some gestures of welcome were recorded at the beginning of the austrian presidency of the council earlier this year. the financing agreement for the meda programme for the modernisation of the judiciary was signed in december 2005 and eu funds were released for two ngos. the funds for the oldest and most respected human rights league on the african continent, whose existence is recognized by the tunisian authorities as a national acquis, have been blocked. this is the tunisian league for human rights. the league's complaints about police intimidation of its members and attempts to obstruct its proper functioning have not been dropped since. a pending court decision prevented the organisation from holding its general assembly in september 2005. the eu troika then made a demarche to geneva to emphasise the european union's wish for the league's work to continue unhindered. the commission will certainly also be discussing the question of blocking european commission funds for the league. i do not want to go into that here. despite another demarche by the european union on 22 may this year, the league's general assembly was again prevented from being held on 27 and 28 may. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the country, and to provide information on the situation in the country. i would like to stress at this point that repeated incidents of this kind damage the international image of a country. the presidency has taken further steps in response to these incidents following our exchange with the tunisian foreign minister on 5 june. the association committee meeting in tunis, scheduled for july 2006, will provide us with an appropriate framework for discussing and responding to these events. we are ready to have an open and constructive dialogue with you in this house. i would like to conclude by making a few comments on other developments in human rights which are also of concern to the council and which are also addressed in this resolution of the european parliament. freedom of association is enshrined in the tunisian constitution, albeit with certain limits. as is often the case with human rights, the law or the constitution is quite up to standard, but the issue is implementation. the independence of the judiciary is also guaranteed by the tunisian constitution, but this is countered by numerous reports of interference by the authorities in court proceedings. the trial of lawyer mohammad abou, who was charged as you know for a critical online article, also seems to confirm these allegations. i would like to conclude by stressing that the european union is very interested in cooperating with tunisia in the modernization of the judiciary. the eu has provided funds under the meda programme and is very interested in progress in the implementation of this project. i can assure you on behalf of the council that the european union will continue to make clear its human rights concerns and concerns in relation to tunisia and will demand full respect for human rights and democratic principles from the tunisian authorities. our first priority is to implement the commitments on democracy, good governance and human rights that tunisia has made to the european union under the european neighbourhood policy. the fulfilment of these objectives - and we have left no doubt about this with regard to tunisia - is also the basis and the precondition for the further development of our relations.
member of the commission. mr president, the commission is closely following the human rights situation in tunisia. it is using all the means at its disposal to encourage the tunisian authorities to make progress in this crucial area. it is particularly concerned over breaches of fundamental freedoms, such as the freedom of expression, association and assembly. my colleague, commissioner ferrero-waldner, in her bilateral contacts with the tunisian authorities, including her latest visit to tunisia in october 2005, has systematically pointed to the importance of respecting human rights and developing a free, open and participative civil society. the commission has also closely followed the events and incidents that occurred during the congress of the ligue tunisienne pour la défense des droits de l'homme on 27 may. on that day, despite a warning note from the tunisian authorities, a representative of the delegation of the european commission attended the congress of that league. he therefore witnessed what happened and was able to provide support to the representative of the european parliament, mrs flautre, who also participated in the event. i very much regret that she was threatened by the security services and find this totally unacceptable. hence, on 5 june 2006, a meeting took place between the tunisian minister of foreign affairs, mr abdallah, and the eu ambassadors in tunisia. the head of the commission delegation underlined on that occasion that the presence of the commission observers and parliamentary observers at the congress of the ligue tunisienne pour la défense des droits de l'homme was quite legitimate. unfortunately, the tunisian authorities remain reticent over the issue of this league. in more general terms, i wish to remind you that the commission is committed to providing support for the promotion of human rights and the development of civil society in tunisia, including this human rights league. in that context, the commission deeply regrets the continued blockage by the tunisian authorities of eu efforts in support of civil society, particularly under the european initiative for democracy and human rights. we shall continue to press the tunisian authorities to rapidly unblock these. with regard to the future, it is our firm intention – shared with the council – to use neighbourhood instruments as a lever in the field of human rights. the eu-tunisia neighbourhood action plan includes sweeping commitments in the field of human rights, democracy and better governance. moreover, it provides for the creation of a human rights subcommittee where the implementation of such commitments will be jointly assessed and monitored. on 2 june 2006 – just two weeks ago – the commission submitted to the tunisian authorities the draft internal regulation of the abovementioned subcommittee and is awaiting a reply from the tunisian side. i therefore want to firmly reassure you that the commission will continue its efforts to ensure that the provisions of the association agreement and of the eu-tunisia action plan with regard to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are being duly implemented.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president tunisia is a partner country in the barcelona process, and therefore there must be an interest not only on our part, but on both sides, to see that the commitments we have made in this process, including the commitments in the field of respect for human rights, are respected. but mr president, we also need to be cautious and not jump to conclusions. this is the third time in about six months that this parliament is discussing the resolution on human rights in tunisia. and this is true of what we say and even what we do not say about other countries. including our partner countries in the mediterranean where the human rights situation is certainly no better than the situation in tunisia. to be clear, i think tunisia has a lot to do in this area. but we also need to send a message to tunisia that is fair, balanced, coherent and treats all countries equally. after all, we are talking about a country that has made some progress, as minister winkler rightly pointed out in his speech. we are talking about a country that has just been elected to the united nations human rights council. it is also the newly elected president of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. mr president, i do not know what coherence we have in insisting on holding the tunisian league for human rights congress when we know that there is an order from the tunisian court to prevent this congress from taking place. what are we asking, that a court order be challenged or ignored? and so instead of condemning, shouldn't we be asking for dialogue between all the parties involved? would it not be better to ask the tunisian authorities to contribute to a solution? there is no doubt that it is important to hold this congress, but we know that there is a blockage because of this court order and it requires everyone's commitment to block this blockage. even the law on the superior status of lawyers that has just passed, what exactly are we saying? are we saying that there is a violation of human rights because there was no consultation on this law before it was passed? because if that is what we are saying, then we have to admit that there are a large number of member countries of the european union itself, which are also violating human rights because of a lack of consultation. in conclusion, mr president, i repeat that i want to see tunisia increasingly respect human rights, but i also want to see this message conveyed in a constructive way.
mr president, under the council of europe convention on the transfer of sentenced persons, which has been ratified by all the member states, sentenced persons may be transferred, to serve the balance of their sentences, under three conditions: to their state of nationality, with their consent and with that of the states involved. the current initiative differs in that it provides a fast-track mechanism for the recognition and enforcement by a member state of sentences involving deprivation of freedom or security measures imposed on that person by a court of another member state. according to the text, the person has to be a national of that member state, be legally resident there, or have close links with it. there is a need for some form of clarification, and for the criteria to be made more distinct, in the sense that, at least as laid down in the text, there is not always a clear distinction between nationals, legal residence and close links. there is also a need to further clarify what is meant by ‘close links’. to conclude, may i refer briefly to a scenario in which the transfer of a sentenced person is to be recommend for humanitarian reasons relating to that person’s family. i was recently approached to evaluate the possibility of whether abdelbaset ali mohmed al-megrahi, who is serving a sentence in scotland for the lockerbie tragedy, could serve his sentence in malta. in this scenario, that would only be possible if the criteria were distinct and the concept of ‘close links’ were interpreted very broadly.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr herbert bösch, for the commitment he has shown over the years in the fight against fraud and the protection of the european union's financial interests. this is one of the most positive reports in this area in recent years. the report is, of course, a reflection of reality. the commission welcomes this constructive report and agrees with most of the views expressed in it. i would like to start by mentioning the statistics and trends that cover the irregularities reported by the member states in 2004. caution should always be exercised before drawing any hasty conclusions about the statistics relating to these communications. member states that report a high number of cases generally make more efforts to comply with their obligations than those that report few cases. the amounts are also in line with estimates and do not reflect budgetary losses, as corrective measures are immediate. in the own resources and agriculture sectors, the amounts are decreasing, as noted, while in the structural actions sector they are increasing. as the parliament points out, iacs has been a great success in the agricultural sector. the commission is not only seeking to reduce the number of irregularities and their follow-up, but also took measures in 2005 through which some of the old member states improved the quality of their electronic notification of irregularities. now i'd like to focus briefly on the content of the report. as regards the reform of the european anti-fraud office (olaf): on 24 may 2006, the commission adopted a proposal to amend regulation 1073/1999 which established olaf. what are the main elements of the olaf reform? first of all, the existing structure of the office, which is functionally independent in the conduct of investigations as a commission department, is working satisfactorily. the court confirmed this in its special report on the establishment of the office. in this context, the legislative proposal strengthens the effectiveness of the office's investigations, its political leadership, the respect of procedural and individual rights throughout the investigation and the provision of information related to the investigation, while maintaining the independence and confidentiality of the office's investigative activities. the commission considers that this is a balanced proposal aimed at improving the functioning of the office and that the improvement will indeed take place. the commission hopes that parliament will be able to give its opinion on this proposal in the near future, as the first discussion has already taken place in the council within the relevant working group. the fight against cigarette smuggling: i would like to say a few words on this issue. in particular, the agreement on the fight against cigarette smuggling concluded with philip morris international. the commission thanks parliament for its continued support in this area. the commission welcomes the fact that 24 of the 25 member states have already joined the agreement, not just the united kingdom. this is a testament to the success and importance of this agreement, which is the first in the field and which establishes cooperation between the authorities and industry. the notification of the seizure of cigarettes from philip morris international is of particular importance to olaf and the member states. just for your information, in 2005, olaf and the member states notified philip morris of some 300 individual seizures, representing more than 400 million cigarettes. of that amount, 85 to 90 percent were forgeries. the seizure allows the identification of key areas in the fight against smuggling and counterfeiting, and this is of particular importance. in practice, the agreement has proved to be a very effective tool in the fight against cigarette smuggling. the commission hopes that this will be a model for other cigarette manufacturers. the report raised the question of the use of the funds obtained. the commission intends to present in the near future a proposal for a revised pericles programme for the years 2007-13 in which the fight against smuggling and counterfeiting is given a prominent place among the objectives for which funding could be allocated. the report rightly addresses the specific problem of intra-community vat fraud and the substantial losses to the member states. all efforts to intensify cooperation between member states and between the commission and the member states deserve the greatest possible support. the proposal for a mutual administrative assistance procedure, which has been welcomed by the european parliament, is a major initiative. when can olaf, as a commission service, provide added value to the member states? the initiative is fully in line with the communication on a european strategy to combat tax evasion adopted by the commission on 31 may. it notes that the rate of tax evasion is increasingly worrying and that member states cannot act effectively on their own. the commission shall aim to improve the mechanisms for operational cooperation between member states and between member states and the authority. as you can see, a number of important legislative measures are currently being prepared or discussed with the council and parliament. at various levels, all these measures are intended to strengthen the protection of financial interests and to ensure better cooperation between the various actors. the area of protection of financial interests is a shared competence, the success of which depends on the decisive role of the member states. the commission and olaf hope to continue to have a strong ally in the european parliament in this task. an effective structure to combat the misuse of european money is essential to win the trust of citizens. the credibility of our institutions is at stake, especially now that agreement on the new financial perspective has been difficult to find. let me take a position on the individual amendments. the commission may adopt amendments nos 1, 3, 4 and 5. as regards amendment no 2 on eurostat, the commission submitted a progress report on 12 april 2006 following the eurostat scandal. the report shows that a number of measures taken should guarantee that such irregularities will not be repeated. olaf closed all but one of its investigations. as regards the financial impact of the irregularities and the recovery of claims, the commission cannot at present provide more information than it has provided in its report. some cases are still pending before national courts and therefore it is not possible to provide more precise information. in the case of amendment no 6, the commission considers that the internal system already in place in the commission regarding the exclusion of firms is adequate to this request. this system is accessible and maintained by all commission directorates-general and not just the science and research directorate. the concept of the blacklist as a tool for prevention is really promising. for this reason, the commission proposed, in the context of the revision of the financial regulation, to extend the database of excluded companies so that it could also be used by the member states and other partners involved in the management of community funds. the problem with this amendment from the commission's point of view is not its abstract intrinsic nature but that it is only a partial proposal within a wider system which is evolving and which, in the commission's view, is effective and the possibility of its further development is still open.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. i would like to start by congratulating my colleague mr bösch on his report, which is a good report, which is a positive report, as the commissioner has also said that we will support. i would like to make two points in summary. first of all, i would like to convey the message that now that we have confirmed the head of olaf in his appointment, we should let this office do its job without making him a footstool in the wheel. olaf is a crucial office in the fight against fraud and it is therefore important to let it work with serenity and not under constant pressure and tension from our side. we need to open a new chapter and let olaf work. then if olaf does not give the results, then we talk again. secondly, the commission has just put forward new proposals to update the regulation establishing olaf. we have a great interest in this process and we want to see that this change leads to a much stronger, much more efficient and much more effective office in its work. this also includes but is not limited to the independence of olaf. mr president, our group attaches great importance to the protection of the financial interests of the european union for the simple reason that we must show a clear commitment that taxpayers' money should not only be well spent but should also appear to be well spent. the european union is using taxpayers' money, it is our obligation.
in writing. the aim of this report is to aid those involved in the sector and to enable them to have the opportunity to run their businesses more smoothly and concentrate their efforts on the direct running of their operations. this applies especially to medium and small enterprises. this will in no small way simplify legislation and eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy. i am sure that member states will also welcome this proposal, as it will significantly reduce their work load. this proposal has acknowledged the fact that all the countries that have an active fisheries sector have different structures and consequently different needs. we will be in a position to ensure a coordinated collation of data, and furthermore this data will be made readily available to all involved. i agree with the rapporteur that a cost effectiveness analysis of the system should be introduced, together with reports on best practices for lessening the workload for national authorities, thereby enhancing the usefulness and quality of the data.
mr president, with regard to the pattern of my voting on the resolutions on tunisia, i should like to state that i voted through loyalty to my party. however, i believe we should not have two sets of weights and measures, in the sense that when voting on a number of resolutions over a short period of time that are directed against a particular country, perhaps one should either tone down the rate of resolutions and condemnation or use the same weights and balances as for other countries.
on this resolution, our epp-ed group abstains because it feels that this resolution was not necessary and does not treat this country that tunisia does not treat fairly. i would remind you that this is the fourth time in a few months that we are dealing with tunisia when there are many other countries, where the situation is much worse and where we have said nothing. we therefore abstained because while we agree that tunisia has a long way to go to improve its human rights record, we feel that the message we want to send to this country should be a constructive one and not a form of witch hunt. it is also significant that while the resolution passed, we had a majority in the chamber, which either abstained or voted against it. the effect of this resolution is therefore doubtful.
on behalf of the pse group. other i would like to say that i was surprised how these events that took place in 'east timor', took place four years after it was recognised, because i pretended that there were all the ingredients unfortunately, for these events to happen earlier. whoever tried to pretend that because east timor was internationally recognised it was ready with its structures, education, environment, things relating to democracy, human rights, the court, we claimed that these structures were there and now that we have recognised its independence then this country could without the necessary help advance in democratic development and in development relating to human rights, i think we were deceiving ourselves. for anyone who was really attentive to what was happening in "east timor", it was clear that the only thing that was often united was the common enemy occupying that country. after independence, after it was recognised, it became clear that things were not going to turn out well. there were the ingredients of poverty, we know it's one of the poorest countries we have. there was the ingredient of the lack of structures, there was also the ingredient that suddenly there could be and there was the discovery of oil. so we have to take an example from this, we have to learn from what happened, and if east timor really needs the help it needs, there must be two areas and i conclude, from the international area as well as from the religious and voluntary area.
the rapporteur . the subjects raised in the debate before us are many, important and sensitive. i therefore choose to go straight to the main focus of this report on which broad convergence has been significantly achieved in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. our messages are four. first, we recognise the consolidation process in the financial services sector as one that has had positive economic effects to date. second, it is the fairly, transparently and without undue hindrance regulated market which decides what the level of consolidation should be. thirdly, our role as legislators is to see that this process, mainly the buying and merging of banks, leads to more competition and not to the creation of new monopolies. fourth, competition must be transformed into a genuine and wider choice between quality products and services that reach the widest possible range of consumers. consumers, in my view, should be the ones to enjoy the benefits that are possible from this process. i am interested in financial institutions doing well from consolidation, but i am much more interested in the biggest benefits going to the consumer, in the form of wider choice, better products, more efficient services and more competitive prices. by consumers we mean mainly individuals and families, especially those who are most vulnerable. but we also have to add companies, especially small and medium-sized ones, which are the backbone of our economies and should be given the service they deserve. at this point, those who share my social ideals may be confused. yes, it is good that consumers have more benefits through consolidation, but should it be the employees of financial organisations, who pay for it? we cannot bury our heads in the sand and pretend that this problem does not exist. news of acquisitions and mergers between companies often does not excite workers with the new prospects they may have. conversely, they are concerned that the savings that will and are being made will come at the expense of their working conditions or even worse. is there no one solution? i have no doubt that serious institutions will look at other efficiency methods before considering turning to workers, but there are those who fail to take the example of social responsibility towards the community. the point we certainly want to support, is what the workers' representatives from all over europe have done with me, namely the need to be informed and involved in the process, as early as possible. there is another related point. the economy of countries, especially those in transition or developing, is not simply a cow to be milked. corporations are obliged to really invest in these countries, creating new and better job opportunities and giving access to a higher quality of service. the new environment shaping the financial services sector will press us as legislators with crucial questions, including on supervision. most of the national authorities are doing excellent work, but the question is bigger than that. in the current market situation, is this supervisory framework still appropriate to protect sensitive interests, such as economic and consumer interests? there are different answers to this question, even among ourselves. but we must start discussing them, not leave them on the shelf. if we do not start to address these questions, we risk not having the tools, whatever they may be, to deal with a crisis in the not too distant future. it is also for this reason that the main recommendation of this report is to ask a committee of independent experts to provide us with alternative proposals within six months of being given the mandate that we can consider and then decide in this area. i would be remiss if, at the end of this intervention, i did not thank those who have been helpful in this report. first of all i would like to thank my colleagues in the socialist group and the representatives of the other groups for the proactive way in which we have worked. i also thank commissioner charlie mccreevy and his cabinet for the way they have always been open to discussion. i also thank those who have liked to submit their views on the report and to the secretariat of the socialist group and the committee on economic and monetary affairs. president, commissioner, colleagues, i believe we have a concrete, balanced and positive report, which can send a strong signal that the european parliament has a clear vision for this sector which is so important for our economies and our citizens.
the rapporteur after the words 'calls for the setting up' the words 'by the end of 2006 of a committee of wise persons' are inserted. then, the sentence continues normally "and report back six months after the establishment of the committee". this amendment has since been circulated to the 'shadows' as well.
it is clear, madam president, that the united states and japan have taken europe by storm in three vital areas. as regards growth, research and production. we know that europe can develop much more than it is developing. we also know that the unemployment lines are too long. and we took a stance, which is to point a finger and point it at the newly industrialized countries. today it is china, tomorrow india, and the next day brazil. but that is not the truth, the truth is that europe has not taken the initiative and the importance of recognising innovation, research and technology and information technology. we have in fact set ourselves a target of 3% of gdp. it is difficult to say, and the countries and i conclude here, the countries that benefit from structural funds should dedicate part of this sum to this purpose.
mr president, it would be a tragedy if europe confined itself to developing only the services sector. as we all know, in today’s environment there is an intertwining of different sectors, be they manufacturing, services or trade. the document states that the manufacturing industry in europe provides employment for 34 million people and 20% of eu output. i do not think that the figures are ones to be proud of: they should be higher. in fact, in my own country – the smallest in the european union – the relative percentages are even higher. however, we must welcome the positive side. firstly, the manufacturing industry is being seen as a generator of new innovative products; secondly, there is the development of a coherent industrial policy at european level. on the negative side, the structural funds could go a long way to strengthening industry and, therefore, i disagree entirely with the cut in the amount to be allocated under the financial perspectives. i believe that countries that are less rich can attain the 3% threshold we have set by using part of the structural funds themselves, which would lead in the direction of cohesion. secondly, more importance must be given to market access. it is useless to have a shop with state-of-the-art equipment if you have no customers. to conclude, we must believe in european manufacturing: it has potential for wealth and jobs. however, we must also take decisions that are difficult: decisions to change and adapt to the new realities of the industrial environment.
two weeks ago in malta, we had an influx of about four hundred illegal immigrants in the space of three days. this is equivalent to the arrival of about eighty thousand emigrants in germany over three days. in the same week we had violent incidents between the police and about four hundred migrants who had fled from the centres where they were staying. it would be superfluous to go through a canteen of arguments and attitudes to explain the crisis that this human tragedy has caused to the countries involved and to the dignity of migrants. these two events in themselves should be more than enough to show the explosive situation we find ourselves in. this is a european problem, no country is able to cope with this tragedy, think of a small country like malta that is carrying too much burden. apart from some recent initiatives by commissioner frattini, the union has not dealt with this issue with the urgency and commitment it deserves, nor with the necessary funds and logistical support. we also expect the dublin ii regulation to be revised. the union has done little and what it has done has been late, and seeing that the union has made little progress in tackling illegal immigration, one begins to wonder how much concrete action it will take on illegal immigration. we appreciated that the finnish presidency made immigration a priority. we hope to go from words to deeds and, as president barroso said this morning, to shift the 'gear' so that we may finally move from reflection to action.
commissioner, you know that last week the situation in malta with the influx of irregular immigrants worsened alarmingly. in one boat alone there were two hundred and sixty-six persons. so far this year, a thousand people have already arrived and we are still in the beginning of summer. if things continue as they are, the number of arrivals last year, which was already a record year, could double. you know, mr commissioner, that proportionally a thousand people in malta are as if they had arrived two hundred thousand in germany, two hundred already at the beginning of the summer. this is the gravity of the situation. you know, mr commissioner, that immigrants do not want to come to malta, but to continental europe. so much so that to get this boat with two hundred and sixty-six people, the armed forces of malta had to spend hours trying to convince them to enter malta. that is, they come to malta because they are rescued by the armed forces of malta in rescue missions, as it should be, this is what solidarity means, as you yourself rightly said, mr commissioner, this is what malta means solidarity, but what solidarity is being shown to malta ? last week there was a riot, as my colleague mentioned, and four hundred immigrants escaped from a detention centre in a demonstration to the office of the prime minister of malta, to ask to be sent to another european country. faced with this situation the maltese people are asking, what is the european union doing? what are you waiting to move? i am sorry to say that although i know that you are personally very sensitive to the situation in malta, so far the commission has had more words than action. many plans and few results, and the results we are urgently awaiting are two-fold. immediately curb the influx of immigrants and share the burden more fairly.
it is almost three months since this parliament adopted a very important resolution. the resolution listed the problems malta is facing due to illegal immigration. a resolution which offered plausible solutions and this resolution was unfortunately ignored by both the commission and the council of ministers. the problem we face today is much more acute and critical than it was then, unfortunately the commission's efforts have been very minimal and almost ineffective so far and we cannot say that we have seen any positive steps since then. we are faced with illegal landings every day. the solution is not to build more detention centres because we are reducing tiny malta to a huge prison. we want europe to face up to its responsibilities, we want the commission to treat each country on its merits and i have no doubt that because of our weakness, malta's problem is the most serious and needs more and more attention. we were promised concrete action but i must say that little has been done, for example in april you promised us maritime surveillance in the region, today i was pleased to hear you say that this issue has been resolved but when will mr commissioner start these 'patrols' around our coasts in the mediterranean ? as a consequence, as my colleague louis and my colleague simon have said, more than four thousand people have illegally entered malta in the last two weeks. the equivalent of sixty thousand in italy, or eighty thousand in germany. and this summer is just beginning, and think about it, mr commissioner, and see where we are at the end of the year. today i heard you say that the plans approved for spain are good but malta says that there will be a second phase, when will the second phase start, when will it be too late mr commissioner ? the maltese people are rightly seeing these words of encouragement, why are they saying where is the solidarity we talk about so much? how we pretend to be carrying this enormous burden on malta alone and when we really turn this many fine words into facts. the maltese people are frustrated and rightly so, because the situation is alarming. this is the moment of truth. this is the moment when the commission and the council must prove to small countries like malta that they are not being discriminated against by the european union.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the maltese members of parliament are right. we have had to deal with a number of parallel situations, but they know that recently a technical mission from the commission went to malta and had contacts with the local government. as i said, we are gathering the willingness of the member states to launch the mission to patrol around the maltese coast; we have so far eight member states who have expressed their willingness to take part in this second mission, following the one organized for the canary islands. eight member states is not a small number, perhaps it is not even enough, but a few days ago i informed minister tonio borg, the deputy prime minister of malta, that at the council meeting this month i will also be able to give precise indications as to the actual time of departure of this mission. obviously you are right, if i had the tools and flexibility, which bureaucratic systems do not allow me, this mission would have started a long time ago.
i want to take this opportunity to bring to the attention of the european parliament the plight of both the maltese and the irregular immigrants in malta. all feel abandoned by the european union. almost daily, boatloads of irregular immigrants land on our shores. they are the lucky ones; many drown striving to make it. malta has been left on its own to deal with this enormous problem. everyone in the eu – commissioners, parliamentarians – knows we do not have the resources. but we have been left to our fate. obviously malta is being bypassed for larger countries with more influence. of course we have received an abundance of condemnation and sympathy but nothing else. before joining the union we used to hear european representatives praising the principles on which the union was built, foremost solidarity. we are steadily reaching the conclusion that this may have been only empty rhetoric. i wonder whether malta will receive the same treatment when, not if, we start to enjoy the wealth beneath our seas. i am sure that then, like a jack in-the-box, the principle of solidarity will re-emerge.
as you said at the beginning, during the summer the influx of migrants continued to reach europe's shores, and hundreds of them even lost their lives at sea without ever reaching it. while the european union has started surveillance patrols in the waters around the canary islands, we still expect patrols in the mediterranean to start as promised. until now libya has been sceptical about these long-distance routes, but today we have news that libya is now ready to reconsider its position as long as the european union helps us guard its borders in southern libya. this is a positive development, mr president, and i hope that it will lead to the early start of the mediterranean fleet and to the serious fight against organised crime which exploits migrants and destroys the countries concerned.
let's face the facts. we have an anomaly and the commission's proposal which is greatly improved by the report and the great work of mrs riis-jørgensen is a step in the direction of solving this problem. we do not have an internal market in cars. that's the problem. it is still very difficult for a european citizen from one country to go and buy a car from another european country and take it back with him or her. in many cases this citizen faces prohibitive and disproportionate fees and outdated bureaucratic procedures in the form of the so-called registration fee. the european commission's proposal to abolish the car registration tax and replace it with an environmental charging system is in the right direction. this is because it removes barriers to an open market, raises the capital cost of cars while encouraging less environmentally damaging consumption. does this proposal still have room for improvement? among other things, we must ensure that those who have already paid the registration tax receive an adequate refund, while we must ensure that those who are weaker in society and who cannot afford to buy a certain type of car, which we are encouraging, are not punished by paying more. we cannot just as well stop people who have to travel to work. we can find a reasonable and transparent solution to avoid such adverse effects. it is not easy, but it can be done. the european parliament's position, which i hope we will take to abolish the registration tax, will be sending a strong signal to the governments of countries still resisting such an agreement, including the government of countries. our proposal is also realistic because it is designed to avoid a negative impact on the country's budget over a reasonable period of years. but until such an agreement is reached, we must still call on governments to be more reasonable, especially by not imposing double taxation in the case of citizens who are returning home after at least two years working in another eu country and find themselves having to pay again a car tax which they have already paid in another country. ironically what is happening in countries, in malta. before countries joined the european union, it was relatively easy for emigrants returning to countries, and bringing a car with them, to be able to pay a reasonable amount of tax. for the past two years, however, people in a similar situation have been asked to pay a prohibitive tax. reasonably then these citizens ask us, 'what is this internal market? ' the
in writing. i voted in accordance with the pse group’s guidelines except for those amendments on which we, the malta labour party meps, agreed to vote otherwise. i want to record the following in explanation. carbon dioxide emissions by cars are more likely to be less voluminous in new cars. car makers are now conscious of the need to reduce emissions and use the latest technologies. registration tax when abused by government raises the price of cars exorbitantly. in malta and gozo, with the exception of denmark, car prices are the highest in the eu. car registration tax should be removed and until such time agreement should be reached on uniformity within the different states. the fee for the annual car licence should be based on the amount of carbon dioxide emissions. revenues from car-related taxes should be used to improve and sustain car-related infrastructures, mainly road construction, maintenance, parking areas, safety measures and landscaping. income from car registration in malta and gozo is comparatively very high whilst the road infrastructure is the worst in the eu. the problem of carbon dioxide emissions is especially acute in commercial and public transport vehicles.
i too would like to join other colleagues in welcoming the stabilisation and association agreement with albania. through this agreement albania will be sealing its future in europe. i am convinced that after years of political isolation, albania will now, through this agreement, move towards rapid economic and social progress and will do so from a european perspective. but the road will not be easy. as the 'european partnership' for albania adopted by the council earlier this year clearly indicates, albania has many short and long-term goals to achieve. it must be clear that achieving these goals requires a comprehensive and bold reform of the country. the reform, so to speak, is rooted in many sectors, in particular the administrative capacity of the public administration of this country but it also requires further advances in the civil rights of the albanian people and in the field of justice. changing a country and a society in this way will certainly not be easy, but it is not impossible either. a country, malta, has also undergone a similar change. over a period of almost two decades, it has undergone a phenomenal transformation. but the hard way has been achieved in meeting the copenhagen criteria and thus joining the european family within the european union as many other countries have done. albania too should look at this agreement as a very important step that will bring this country to my natural home i.e. membership of the european union. today this parliament must send a clear message to the albanian people, the message that parliament is following closely the developments undergoing by the albanian people and that it will receive support and goodwill from us.
as malta and gozo are the smallest nation in the european union it is only natural that one refers to their architecture and cultural heritage in a holistic way. with the little available resources and an enormous architectural and cultural heritage it is impossible to preserve same using only our resources. this is why we have to look to the eu to come to our aid. few know that the earliest free standing buildings in the world have been found in malta. notwithstanding, they need immediate attention. perhaps the most impressive temple complex ggantija in gozo is in dire need of immediate professional attention. valletta, one of the most beautiful cultural capitals in europe, is still in a disastrous state. fifty years have passed since the end of world war ii yet the capital is still war-scarred – in particular the ruins of the once magnificent opera house. i appeal to the german and italian governments to make a gesture of goodwill by rebuilding the opera house which was destroyed through aerial bombings thus enhancing valletta architecturally and contributing to its cultural heritage.
mr president, it appears that, as time goes by, the european union is becoming more and more ineffectual where certain dictatorships are concerned. it is a great pity that a wonderful country like zimbabwe has been allowed to deteriorate into its current state while, except for the few measures we have taken to combat the dictatorship of mr mugabe, we look on. we talk about what is happening and perhaps restrict the travel arrangements of the perpetrators and their immediate families, and then think we are doing something to help those who are feeling the brunt: not only the whites but also a sizeable faction of native black zimbabweans. it is about time we stood up and really started to act rather than just talk.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr ferber. the main conclusion of the investigation into the allegations on the two strasbourg buildings is that there is no indication of illegality. in this sense, therefore, the allegations were unfounded. however, a number of findings have emerged that, although not illegal, should be stressed here today. the first is that there was indeed an excessive payment of rent in the order of between eur 32 million and as much as eur 60 million. secondly, the city of strasbourg acted in breach of trust when it did things which it knew would never have been acceptable to parliament, such as keeping part of the rent payments and negotiating a cut of eur 29 million from the purchase price. thirdly, the administration of the european parliament was also found to be lacking, because over a long period of 30 years it failed in its duty of diligence to ensure that the rent that was paid to strasbourg for the buildings was not excessive. finally, the european parliament itself was not united on this issue, for how else can one explain the fact that the committee on budgetary control was informed of the allegations well over a month after the bureau of parliament itself? how else can one explain that, even as our investigation was taking place, our bureau continued to negotiate the purchase of the buildings, thereby undermining the political authority of the investigation itself? although none of these points constitute unlawful acts, they surely cannot be condoned, still less repeated. (applause)
my vote on the krahmer and corbey reports was in favour of higher air quality standards and stricter controls in this area. the main point that led me to take this position is the way maltese and gozitan citizens are being treated by the country's authorities today. we are in a position where it is not that european standards are not being respected, but that the people are not being given all the information they have a right to in order to protect their health and the environment. a concrete example of this was, as it was only after my intervention, that the authorities publicly admitted that there were violations of european directives on emissions in our country's power-stations. they are even in a situation where the pollution measuring devices of the marsa and delimara power-stations have not been working for months after being said to have been struck by lightning. the maltese newspaper 'l'orizzont' yesterday revealed that we are still reeling the canvas in this area, when the new equipment has not yet been purchased. this is unacceptable and the responsible authorities and the european commission need to follow this infringement more closely.
a few months ago in this parliament, commissioner frattini said that he could not act at the rate he wanted. we understand and appreciate that there are bureaucratic problems, but they can no longer be used as an excuse to let a situation change from an alarming one to an explosive and uncontrollable one. it is embarrassing that on something so sensitive, human and tragic, for so many people and countries including member states, the union has seemed so passive. malta, like italy, spain and others is facing a burden that no country can bear alone. this is a crisis that transcends borders and therefore the solution must be european, mediterranean and african and if necessary involve the united nations. we have heard many words such as mobilisation, solidarity and financial aid. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the eu's maritime policy. summer came and went, as did the immigrants, but this summer the long-haired ones were nowhere to be seen. the result so far has always been a policy of piecemeal measures and sometimes we have been told that we have found another half a million euros to give. this is such a critical situation that it warrants the creation of a european emergency plan, and in this context i believe that the european parliament should have more competence and a more prominent role. there are many initiatives that could be taken, one of them is the creation of an observatory based in a mediterranean country like malta to coordinate work on illegal immigration in this region. the council and the commission must give a clear and concrete signal that they really consider this issue a priority and that they are ready to move and to act to carry out a comprehensive policy that addresses not only the immediate needs of affected member states, but also of migrants. they are often victims of political repression or organised crime or economic poverty. this plan must involve the countries of origin of the migrants, it must also address problems, especially economic ones, of the countries of origin of these migrants. the more the situation worsens, the less trust the citizens have in the european institutions.
we have recently had conflicting reports on what cooperation we have with libya on illegal immigration. first, mr commissioner, you said that libya was interested in participating in the mediterranean fleet, then we heard a refusal from libya. then, the corriere della sera announced that italy and libya had agreed to patrol each other. later, this news was also rejected. then, mr commissioner, you said that the european union is ready to help and provide financial assistance to libya to persuade it to cooperate. can the commissioner and the council clarify what contacts with libya have led to and what the situation is today? what is certain is that cooperation with libya is necessary in the fight against illegal immigration, as is helping libya secure its borders in the south of the country, because after all we cannot expect libya to help us secure the borders in the mediterranean without helping libya secure its borders in the desert in its own country.
ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few remarks on the problem facing the whole of europe, and in particular the mediterranean. everyone said his, everyone said that a solution must be found. dear colleagues, the solution is right in front of us: introduce a mechanism for sharing responsibilities. we are talking about the european union, and we are talking about the european union, and we are talking about the european union. it is useless to say many nice words like "solidarity" and then remain inactive. let us not allow this union, which was created precisely for the sake of equal opportunities for all, to be reduced to a europe of cards, a europe of resolutions, a europe of promises or a europe of dreams. i know that efforts are being made, but not enough. and this is the moment of trial, this is the moment in which we must really put into practice what we preach, and say what we really believe. i am convinced that, with a little will on the part of all, a compromise can be found that will lead to a lasting solution to this problem, namely the much-needed european common policy.
president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank parliament for a good debate. i am sorry, however, that there is not enough time. unfortunately, i cannot speak in two minutes for a five-minute speech, even though i could do that in the finnish parliament. the presidency is aware of the nature of the proposal for a framework decision on data protection in the third pillar, i refer to the proposal by mr roure, and its relevance for european citizens, and of the fact that the european parliament has linked the framework decision to the proposals on the vis and sis ii information systems. i would like to thank the european parliament on behalf of the presidency for the work it has done and to say that we will do everything possible to reach an agreement on the draft framework decision by the end of our presidency. we will take the opinion and positions of the european parliament into account in our further work, where possible within the framework of the provisions of the treaty, with a view to ensuring a high level of protection of personal data by means of a legislative instrument to be adopted, by establishing common provisions for the third pillar of data protection. the questions of immigration and migration require a more detailed discussion and i hope that we will have the opportunity to return to them. the situation in the mediterranean was raised by my action at the very first meeting of the council of ministers of the interior. it has been on the agenda and on the agenda of every meeting of the council of ministers of the interior and will continue to be so. it is essential that we can have a stronger influence on the social, economic and social development and supporting conditions of third countries of origin. in general, we as ministers of the interior are in favour of dealing with purely human and negative effects, so we are on the side of the patch. this is why better coordination of the eu's external relations and internal affairs in cooperation with third countries and the commission is of great importance. this has also been constantly emphasised in the work of the council of ministers. it is also important that we give support to countries that are burdened by the heavy burden of illegal immigration. the tampere summit's initiative on extended solidarity is important. it's a way to move forward, not just by giving money. to counterbalance this burden, a significant financial contribution is required. in addition, there is a need for guarantees of a procedure to ensure that member states respect commonly agreed rules and take responsibility for illegal immigrants and asylum seekers entering their territory, including registering them and providing them with either residence permits or arrangements for return. the creation of information systems and the development of existing ones is of great importance. the council, together with the commission, supports the forms of support available and necessary for maritime surveillance and other forms of cooperation in the mediterranean, but i would like to stress that in the european union national responsibility for operational action lies with the member states, which must have the operational, planning and management capacity to carry out continuous action and joint operations. the schengen external border states also share responsibility for combating illegal entry into the schengen area. we want to support it and the new frontex agency. it is very important that we distinguish between illegal and legal immigration, in emphasising protection and the implementation of the geneva convention. in this respect, it is of the utmost importance that an active european immigration policy be developed, its quantitative and qualitative management strengthened, while keeping in mind the stability of our labour markets. however, an active european immigration policy is not the same as illegal immigration organised by organised crime. as commissioner frattini has said, we must also take a serious look at the human and economic chaos created by the illegal labour market and the shadow economy. we must now be able to deal with this matter honestly and courageously in the various member states of the european union. this requires the authorities to better identify the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings and to step up their action to protect victims of trafficking in human beings. the most heinous form of organised crime, trafficking in human beings, is a european phenomenon, although we do not talk about it much. finland wants to strengthen this debate both in its own country and in the european union. it is very important to monitor how the enlarged european union responds to the demands of our citizens and to the requirements of acceptability and internal security. in this respect, i think it is very important that the decision-making process be improved. it is unacceptable that we in the european union have been contemplating the choice of the director-general of europol for over a year. it is also unacceptable that, at the same time as we are calling for the abolition of external border control and a border strategy, we are focusing on the city where the border guard agency is located. we need to be able to make decisions that are more credible and that are more secure. as regards the mountain bike which was mentioned in previous speeches, i would like to say that finland, like germany and the other presidents and commissioner franco frattini, would like to replace this mountain bike with a larger one and we are trying to use it for the sake of common security and a safer europe. (applause) i would like to thank the
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am aware of the extreme difficulty of being able to respond in a few minutes, even briefly, to all the suggestions and comments made by those who have spoken in about two and a half hours of important debate. mr president, you mentioned earlier that today's debate concerns a number of priorities for the european union, one of which is certainly the fight against terrorism. today, we have spoken little about it, but you all know perfectly well that only last summer, thanks to a demanding cooperation, the security authorities of three european countries, the united kingdom, denmark and germany, thwarted terrorist attacks that could have been devastating. terrorism remains the greatest threat to our democracy. i do not think there is a link between terrorism and immigration and i share the views of those who have pointed this out. immigration is certainly another priority, it is a challenge, not a danger to the european union. many of you have spoken of policies of co-development, mainly with african countries. i can tell you that the commission, always quite ambitious in its proposals, has proposed to allocate 17 billion euros, a considerable sum, to the new european fund for the development of countries such as africa, and that the co-development policies which many have called for will be intensified as a result. there will be co-development policies that will concern the stabilization of institutions, the fight against corruption, good governance, all of which are co-development initiatives aimed at improving the capacity to prevent migration flows as many of you desire. there is the problem raised by mr baron crespo, namely the use of the available european funds. i fully agree with mr baron crespo and i would once again urge the member states to formulate projects. european funds can only be spent if there are projects submitted by member states of the union. unfortunately, in recent years, a number of funds made available by the commission have not been spent because of a lack of projects. i call on all the member states to increase the number of projects so that more initiatives can be financed. there has been a lot of talk about prevention, protection and the maritime frontier in the mediterranean. we will present a draft for integrated mediterranean border management for approval by the ministers in luxembourg. i would like to say something to those who have spoken, in an extremely harsh tone which i do not share, of a sort of 'european army' to wage war on immigrants: i would like to remind mr flautre, whom i respect very much, that if there had not been the mediterranean and atlantic patrols this summer, if there had not been thousands of coast guards, police and security officers, many thousands of immigrants would have died at sea. the first of the purposes of the patrol is to save people's lives at sea and not to make war on immigrants. it is therefore the exact opposite, and it is the aim of prevention that will lead us to propose a mechanism which all the governments have urged us to adopt. the subject of the countries of the southern shore of the mediterranean certainly deserves a thorough discussion. as regards libya, i can only say that this country has accepted negotiations with the european union, which we will start in a concrete way on the basis first of all of a guarantee of full respect for the rules of dignity and individual respect for every person; we have asked libya to do this, as we ask all our non-european partners to do. libya has asked for help in controlling the southern border: there are 2000 km of libyan border in the desert that are practically uncontrollable and one of the requests that is made to us is "help us to better control that border and we can help you to control the departure and above all to eradicate human trafficking", which unfortunately frequently pass through the mediterranean. we have a duty to enter into negotiations with libya and we will have to do so on the basis of mutual respect between the european union and non-european partners. the african union-european union migration conference in tripoli will be another signal to libya that we want serious involvement not only of this country but of all north african countries. two final thoughts: the first theme is solidarity. many have spoken of solidarity; i believe that solidarity must be taken as a global approach, as with immigration, because it is solidarity first and foremost with the victims of human trafficking. that is the first solidarity we must have. there is also a solidarity which we must express to the african countries of origin, but also to the countries of transit, which are also exposed to a flow which is often uncontrolled. there is also solidarity between the countries of the european union. the importance of the dimension of mutual solidarity between countries which are part of the european union must not be denied; it is one of the points on which the word 'solidarity' must be used. how can we forget that countries like malta or the small canary islands or lampedusa cannot cope with the current flow of illegal immigration on their own, and that too is solidarity. there is human solidarity towards the people who arrive on our shores, there is also the solidarity which countries far from the mediterranean have a duty to express to countries in the mediterranean and facing the mediterranean. another issue is that of respect for the law. i do not think that the european union can be asked to make legality out of illegality. because when you break the laws, the law remains broken! when you trade in human beings you must be punished severely and without tolerance! when you employ people clandestinely and illegally, exploiting illegal immigrant workers, there must be sanctions! when you come to the european union in violation of all laws and you stay in the european union in violation of all laws, with respect for the dignity of individuals, european policy must be credible and must return those who have broken the law to their countries of origin, otherwise we will give the impression that you can break the law and nothing happens! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we talked about it a lot: it is a matter of vision, as mr schulz said, and as many others have said, to guide and activate the political process. it is not possible to imagine that we are going to go after civil society; it is not possible to imagine that we, as institutions, expect civil society to push or perhaps show its dissatisfaction with the capacity for political leadership. many have spoken of the renunciation of national selfishness. i think that's a central theme: if we understand, and if the governments of the member states understand, that it is not in their interest to remain locked into national egoisms, then those governments will understand that national pride, which many of us cherish, can be defended much better by pooling the policies that are common. defending national pride by claiming that immigration or terrorism can be dealt with as national policies only is not defending national pride, it is not defending the great principles of the tradition of many countries, it is simply not responding to the demand of the citizens. that is why we need a bold political vision, which goes in a different direction.
‘prevention is better than cure’ is a popular idiom. this issue is one of both prevention and cure. there is no doubt that the european union is finally understanding that the problems faced by malta and other mediterranean countries affected by the immigration phenomenon will ultimately become a problem of europe as a whole. and this is the europe that malta wanted to join. there is nothing more noble than solidarity. some, however, are criticising the union for providing too little too late. maybe they are right; but better late than never. definitely two boats to patrol the extension between gibraltar and alexandra are inadequate, but on the other hand the request by libya to help control its 2000 km hinterland borders is extremely good news, especially for malta. this is part of the policy of prevention. the process to cure the phenomenon is much more complicated. unless the endemic african problems of poverty, civil wars, disease, hunger, unemployment, corruption and international debts are addressed and enhanced by a system of good rule and justice, the problem of irregular immigration will remain irresolvable. i cannot but criticise some european countries for squabbling over financial help to their partners – malta, italy, spain and greece – which are doing their best to alleviate the plight of irregular immigrants.
mr president, i hope that next week's summit will discuss the letter sent to the finnish presidency by no less than 8 heads of government - who wrote to you about illegal immigration. although the summer is over and we now expect the flow to calm down a bit, everyone knows that the crisis has been there and will be there, and if we do nothing today we will find greater difficulties early next year. i would say that in these last days we have taken the first concrete steps in our journey to convince european countries to fight the problem of illegal immigration together. first, last week the mediterranean round started. i see commissioner frattini here and i would like to greet him on this, and i hope that these rounds in the mediterranean send a clear message that the mediterranean is not an open sea, 'free for all', for organised crime that is bringing migrants to europe. secondly, we had a vote in the budget committee where we significantly increased the budget of the frontex agency for next year to almost eur 35 million, to strengthen its work at the external borders. i hope that the council is prepared to support us in this budget and not cut the budget for frontex, as it is already trying to do. how can the council say that it is taking the fight against illegal immigration seriously if it at the same time allows european governments to flounder and try to reduce the budget in this area instead of increasing it? third, this week it seems that an agreement will be reached on the four european immigration funds that will be operational from next january. i am pleased that the compromise includes measures such as an emergency clause to give the european union the possibility of being able to provide prompt financial assistance in emergency situations. there is still a lot to do if we want people to feel that europe is paying attention to illegal immigration. parliament has spoken, the commission has spoken, and now the council has to do its part. thank you.
mr president, eu money that is lost or unaccounted for often hits the headlines. it is a pity that the work done to prevent money being lost in the first place – and to recover funds that are lost – is all too often too technical, too tedious to be reported at all, let alone hit the headlines. however, efforts to recover funds are being made and should be supported, although, as the rapporteur clearly points out, more needs to be done. in particular, more needs to be done on the recovery of funds where there is shared management. we need to rely on the full cooperation of the national authorities to help us succeed. sometimes i get the feeling that, as long as we are talking about community funds, national authorities are not quite so keen to do their part. in effect they are saying: ‘our responsibility is the national budget, and that is it’. however, that is not it. when eu money is spent at national level, it is clear that national authorities are actively involved. national authorities also bear a strong responsibility for ensuring that community funds are not spent erroneously, irregularly, or even fraudulently. if they are, then action is taken to recover them. the report rightly calls for member states to stand up and be counted, to do their part, to better organise themselves and to cooperate more with the commission so that the recovery of funds is effective and becomes a deterrent in itself.
in writing. although we all agree that the plight of irregular immigrants is something that we have to work hard on, and that these unfortunate people should be treated with all the dignity a human being deserves, we must not forget that the influx of irregular foreigners into our countries is causing a big headache to the authorities, especially in mediterranean countries. i therefore think it would be wiser to amend the dublin ii regulations prior to committing ourselves to something that may prove to be too big for us. we are obliged to do so, not only when considering the state our detention centres are in and the pressure that they are causing in our countries, but also out of respect for the immigrants themselves. we should not give them false hopes. i think we should get our house in order prior to offering something which at present i am sure we cannot guarantee. i urge all concerned for the umpteenth time to grab the bull by the horns and make a genuine effort to have dublin ii amended
the rapporteur . other the budget increase granted to the other sections in 2007, compared to that of 2006, was only marginal and much less than that requested in the preliminary draft. the agreed increase reflects the inflation rate and amounts related to specific priorities of each institution. in the other sections other than parliament and the council, the committee on budgets decided to reimburse over eur 10 million of the approximately eur 29 million reduction made by the council. the 2007 budget was based on the institutions' essential priorities while ensuring smooth operational and functional efficiency. in total, the increase for the institutions was around eur 31 million compared to the eur 48 million requested by the institutions. over the years, mr president, exaggerated margins have become commonplace in the estimates of some institutions. this practice, or bad practice, has led to an uncomfortable situation of last-minute transfers or cancellation of an appropriation. this will be difficult to manage especially when the property purchase process starts to slow down in a few more years. in this respect the adoption of a more activity-based budget seems to us to be more effective. in addition, the presentation of estimates should be more standardised, the justifications should give clearer justifications, and estimates should be more precise. as regards parliament, the committee on budgets agreed that the final budgetary level for 2007 would be 0. eur 1397 billion, i.e. a margin of eur 25 million below the 20% ceiling. this level corresponds to 19. 65% of the administrative cost under chapter 5. in this respect, however, parliament is not giving up its traditional 20% share. the committee supports the use of unused funds through amending budgets for unexpected but justified expenditure. the creation of an efficient structure together with the redeployment exercise were the main targets in the establishment's strategic plan for the 2007 plan. in addition, filling of vacancies due to withdrawal will not be accepted as an automatic process. as regards assistance and services to members, i agree with the secretary-general that the main objectives of raising the game have been largely achieved. however, a recurrent complaint is that there is not enough information on the help service available to meps. the administration should address this shortcoming and correct it by this year at the latest. mr president, due to lack of time, i will not be able to address in detail all the priorities addressed in the budget and my report for 2007. these priorities relate to 48 million euro allocated to expenditure relating to the enlargement of bulgaria and romania, measures taken to simplify and improve legislation, examination of the efficiency of translation services especially with regard to the length of the texts submitted compared to the cost incurred on them, authorisation of 9. 5 million euro in supplementary funds for the improvement of the visitor programme, the decision to leave it in reserve 6. 7 million euro for 'webtelevision', a final decision will be taken after a presentation of the prototype at cobu, the need for more control over the administration of multilingualism where we have put 3 million euro in reserve. the misuse of this service by some including political parties should be sanctioned. the building reserve has been set at 50 million euro, where we also want to ensure that the building policy is periodically reviewed. i would conclude by saying that there is a need for better management of budget implementation for targeted measures, as well as annual reports based on more information on the work carried out by the institutions. these reports should be used to justify additional funds in order to enable parliament to reach a more rational decision on the allocation of funds so that the budgets financed by european 'taxpayers' provide real added value in their daily lives. finally, i would like to thank all those who contributed to the preparation of this report and i would also like to say that i especially thank the secretary-general for his resignation. we'll move him, whether he'll move us is another matter.
the budget this parliament will approve next year will allocate money, for the first time, to the new fund known as the external borders fund, designed specifically to help member states to strengthen their borders to curb the relentless influx of illegal immigration. given the gravity of the illegal immigration emergency, i hardly believe that this is the first time that the european union will set up a dedicated fund for the external borders, but we have arrived. and thanks to this parliament, the budget that will be allocated to this fund will be larger than even what the commission has asked for. i am talking about a budget of €170 000 000 to better protect our borders and thus to reduce the influx. the second point i wanted to make is about frontex, the european external borders agency. so far, this agency, which has only been operating for about a year, has not been given sufficient resources to carry out its work. it is enough to say that, until last week, frontex was coordinating patrols in the mediterranean, but yesterday i saw an advertisement in the newspapers for frontex to be joined by a director responsible for patrols at sea. in other words, we must not leave this agency alone and think that we will solve everything. so even here, it is gratifying that this parliament will vote a budget larger than what the commission has asked for, almost €35 000 000 to strengthen this agency and help it to do its job better. it is unfortunate, mr president, that instead of following our example and giving more resources to frontex, some european governments have so far been harsh and even tried to cut frontex's budget. we tell them that the european parliament will do its utmost to give frontex the necessary means to fulfil its duties.
tonight we are debating the report on the application of a directive relating to posting of workers, as we are aware the posting of workers directive refers firstly to the guarantee of the free movement of persons and services, secondly, that posted employees enjoy terms and conditions related to minimum rates of pay, working conditions, health and safety of the host member states. the main problem of the directive is its enforcement. one of the main obstacles is the need to adjust the definition of ‘employees’ so that a clear distinction is made with the status of ‘self employed persons’ for the purpose of national employment law. another difficulty is that this directive has not been transposed by all the member states, nor is it enforced in practice in a number of member states. also it is apparent that such workers do not even know their rights and therefore the aim of the directive is not being achieved. i have come across numerous maltese who were working in other member states and who have no idea of their rights under this directive. so as to make the directive meaningful, we must not be ambiguous.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to inform you that the resolution will be adapted according to the result of the vote on the budgetary amendments. therefore, any technical corrections needed will be made by the session services.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to propose that the text of paragraph 58 of the report be replaced by the following text: ‘notes the improvement in monitoring of the implementation of the eu budget in its budgetary vote; asks the relevant committees to examine the setting-up of a structure and a procedure to carry out the implementation assessment exercise for 2007 with the specialised committees; in this way it will also help to prepare for the budget review in 2008-2009; asks the secretary-general to facilitate the logistics to organise regular monitoring meetings according to the priorities that will be defined by the committees concerned’.
some member states have unilaterally decided to introduce legislation to stop european citizens from using gambling websites operated by companies registered in other countries of the european union. this is in breach of the principle of non-impeding the free movement of services between member states, as well as of ec directive 98/34 which provides that before a country introduces regulations concerning information technology services, it must inform the other member states and the commission. in june last, in reply to a parliamentary question, i was informed that the matter had been submitted for investigation by the commission. we can know what this investigation has come to and take any steps. i agree that it is time for this rapidly developing sector to be covered by a legal structure with standards and regulations that seriously regulate this service. regulations that protect consumers and minors, while guaranteeing that serious operators can operate freely in all the member states of the european union.
why was the discussion on this directive successful? i say two things. first of all we did not treat workers as numbers, but we put the rights of workers and people before any other consideration. the second reason is that we have removed the obstacles to the movement of people not by turning one worker against another, but by seeing that we use this free movement to improve workers' rights and not to give an advantage or encourage the worker to offer himself under the worst possible conditions. this vote should send a strong signal that there is no longer any exploitation or attempted exploitation of workers from other countries by offering lower conditions; or thereby pressures workers of a given country to accept worse conditions. furthermore, workers should be given full information about the conditions that others are being given. thank you to evelyne gebhardt, malcolm harbour, and commissioner mccreevy for the brilliant work that has been done.
in writing. i voted in favour of this directive for two reasons. the first is that we have not treated people as numbers serving the market, but instead have put workers' rights above all other considerations. the second reason was that we removed the obstacles to the movement of people not by turning workers against each other and leading to a struggle won by those who offer themselves under the worst conditions, but by showing that we want to use free movement to improve workers' rights. this vote should send a strong signal that there will no longer be any attempts to lure foreign workers by offering lower conditions to those of local workers, or to pressure through them to accept worse pay and conditions for domestic workers. furthermore, workers should be given full information about the conditions being given to local and foreign workers and not be left in the dark. lack of information leads to suspicion and antagonism, as is happening for example in the malta shipyard. cost savings should not come from abusing workers' rights, but by raising service levels. this is an objective which this directive should achieve.
through this fireworks directive we are strengthening the health and safety of consumers as well as those involved in this type of work. this directive, as amended by this report, will bring greater safety especially in the market for pyrotechnic products sold in shops and used directly by consumers throughout europe. at the same time, the amendments unanimously agreed in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection recognise that there is a market for fireworks that are not sold to consumers, but are manufactured and used in licensed and covered activities. these include traditional festivals held mainly in the mediterranean, including in malta. the agreed amendments do not affect safety regulations but simply require that there is no red tape in these cases. the original procedures would not have led to any change in the way the work was done, but only to an increase in costs. in the case of malta, they would be paid by the voluntary organisations which run the festivals. these amendments have been drawn up and agreed with the responsible authorities, including the maltese standards authority. it is also worth clarifying that regulations on distances and burning times are decided by each individual country and were never included in this directive.
mr president, that is exactly it. it is not the right time. the judicial proceedings involving the bulgarian nurses have come at a very critical moment. having such a resolution this week would be very dangerous; it would do more harm than good. it is for that reason that it would be better to shelve any proposal to have a motion for a resolution this week and to change the topic entirely.
the rapporteur . mr president, this year budget requests were evaluated on their specific merits, taking into account the real needs and priorities of the institutions. at the same time all forms of spending were critically examined in order to minimise waste and bad practices. but it was equally relevant to me that the institutions be given the tools and funds necessary to work and operate efficiently. a general observation i would like to make is that insufficient efforts are being made by the institutions to provide clearer, more precise and more analytical estimates. that would greatly reduce certain amounts placed in reserve and would not require providing excessive margins for cancelling appropriations and making last-minute transfers at the end of the year. i would like to stress once again the need for all institutions to submit more detailed and informative reports on their activities each year, stating whether the objectives have been achieved and how the funds for local development have been used. another key point in this budgetary procedure was the policy relating to the recruitment service which should be improved. in principle, both parliament and the council have approved all requests for posts relating to the enlargement of the union. however, it is becoming increasingly difficult to understand or justify the delays in the job selection process relating to the 2004 enlargement. this shortfall should be remedied and the institutions with epso should resolve this pressing pressure to fill the vacancies. the decision taken by the parliament and the council to follow the recruitment process closely is therefore necessary. the 2007 budget framework also concerns another important point, namely cooperation, between the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee. a realistic analysis should be carried out in the next budget year to ensure that the agreement between them is renewed without being excluded in other forms of cooperation. the starting point of each exercise should be cooperation by separation where equity in the management of the combined services must also be ensured. it would therefore be wise to form a working committee to address this issue and to examine in general the impact of the opinions and other work that these two committees give. in 2007 we should have less of a problem with the assistance to members and the visitor programme. i feel that in these two services we have made tangible progress and their impact should be felt in 2007 and 2008. however, the information given to members about the services they can use must be more effective. next year we should also see improvements in the structure of the institutions, to make them more streamlined, as well as expect a stronger implementation of the re-deployment policy which i believe will have a positive impact in the coming years. multilingualism, on the other hand, was disappointing. in this regard, they expressed their support for the initiative taken by parliament's bureau to establish a guide to good practice which should include sanctions and penalties. the good management of this useful but costly service should be on the agenda of all the institutions for the year ahead. mr president, there is not enough time to talk about other priorities that have been addressed in this budget, such as information policy where we hope to see further progress in 2007. the purchase of property especially property that has common with the commission, where we think much more improvement should be made, informatics, security training, simplification of legislation and so many other 'issues'. it is worth mentioning that during the preparation and development of the budget we felt the need to keep in touch with all the institutions. the last budgetary level we obtained at first reading was a result of this process. in fact, during the conciliation process with the council and the commission, parliament's representatives did their best to find a balanced formula and we assume that all parties, including the council, honour the agreement reached during these meetings. otherwise the main purpose of these 'trialogues' and reconciliation meetings is lost. we cannot accept a situation where a procedure is no longer meaningful or a worse procedure is counterproductive for parliament. in these circumstances i feel that the committee on budgets in the coming months should address this matter urgently.
mr president, i too will speak on immigration. in fact, i think it is fair to say that this year can be remembered as the year when europe finally started to face reality on the issue of illegal immigration. a year in which europe realised that the southern member countries of europe could no longer be left to face this problem alone, apart from the doors and windows mentioned by mr cohn bendit. and we have indeed begun to see the start of common action, short-term measures that are as necessary as long-term measures. for the first time, we saw european rounds in the mediterranean as well as in the atlantic. next year these rounds need not only to be continued, but strengthened and extended to all vulnerable months. we have also seen, thanks to this parliament, an increased budget for the agency 'frontex', which has a crucial role in this area. and tomorrow we will vote on raising new funds, including a european fund specifically designed to strengthen the external borders. something we must do to reduce the influx. i expect these funds to be used effectively from next january. it is also positive that the funds will have an emergency clause to provide aid immediately in emergency situations. and at the end of november, the commission announced new proposals to strengthen the external maritime borders in the heart of europe, including the establishment of a network of coastal patrols and the european border surveillance system. i welcome the commission for these proposals. so when discussing migration, european governments need to show the political will and the solidarity needed to continue on this good path that we have finally taken. and if this year we started to face reality, next year needs to be the year in which we prove clearly that by working together we can overcome even the most difficult challenges.
mr president, i want to welcome the summit conclusions on immigration. they take us one step closer to a more balanced immigration policy and one based on solidarity. for far too long we have been focusing on long-term measures in the hope that we would solve immigration problems through development policy. clearly this has not been successful and this means that we must not only strengthen long-term measures on development policy but also undertake short-term measures to stem the flow of illegal immigration. today we see that the entire burden is on the southern member states, which are simply inundated by the incessant flow of illegal immigration. therefore, the summit conclusions in this respect take us one step further because they include a series of concrete steps in this regard.
