president. - with the recent human cases of avian influenza in turkey, the risk of a pandemic is increasing. now the dutch parliament has decided by a majority that it would be good to lay down disinfecting mats at the airport. the minister in question, mr veerman, rejected this on the grounds that it must be done in a european context. i myself welcome the initiative of the dutch parliament. the minister is right, of course, that some things would be better in a european context, but the tragedy of the discussions on avian influenza at european level is that there are always good intentions, but when it comes down to it, the european commission would not be able to take crisis measures within 24 hours. secondly, mr president, both the british and belgian press have started a debate on the extent to which companies are prepared for a possible pandemic. i think that raises the following question for you as well: how prepared are the european institutions and this parliament for a possible pandemic? i do not think there is any reason to panic, but if there is a pandemic with travel restrictions, then of course that will have consequences for us too, and i wonder to what extent that has been thought through.
president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in times of growing intolerance, this parliament is sending a clear signal by a very large majority, and that is welcome. too often, homophobia is justified by those other fundamental rights, namely freedom of religion and freedom of expression. some member states hide behind the principle of subsidiarity to legitimize discrimination and, with all due respect, commissioner, the commission too often uses this cowardly argument to look the other way. i expect the european commission to stand up for the fundamental rights of all european citizens, wherever they live, and so do we in this parliament. fundamental rights are not a matter of subsidiarity, they are inalienable and universal for all citizens of the european union. but solemn declarations and moral outrage are not enough. we must do everything possible, as we have also said in our joint resolution. we must invest in information, education, but also in improving the legal position of homosexuals. in this connection i would like to insist once again - and i am glad to hear from the commissioner what plans there are - on the so-called horizontal directive which prohibits all forms of discrimination, not only in the workplace but everywhere. it is also scandalous that some member states have still not fully recognised homosexuals as targets of the nazi regime. i hope that the austrian presidency will be able to put this to the member states in the council and then proceed to recognise homosexuals as victims of the nazis. finally, i would like to know when the commission will finally, after repeated requests, make proposals to remove obstacles to the free movement of persons for married homosexual couples. it is unacceptable that when european citizens cross the border they lose their rights on the basis of their sexual orientation - property rights, pension rights, social security, even the custody of their own children. i would like to hear from the commission what proposals it is going to make in response to a request from the european parliament on this matter dating back to october 2004. (applause from the left)
president, commissioner, commission president barroso gave a plenary speech more than a year ago, in response to the statements made by the commissioner-designate, mr rocco buttiglione, in which he made a number of clear promises. i've been going over that speech again. anti-discrimination and equal opportunities would become a top priority for this commission. a group of commissioners would monitor all commission action and major initiatives in this area. it will act as a political driving force. now my question to the commission is what exactly has this working party done in the past year. because commissioner frattini's meagre list does not really live up to this great promise and there is plenty of work to be done. it is still impossible, as my colleague sophia in the field has said, that there are european rules prohibiting discrimination against people on the grounds of their skin colour, for example when renting a house, but that homosexuals are still free to do so. why is the right to equal treatment of people regardless of their sexual orientation limited to the labour market? mr president, in poland a number of freedom demonstrations are banned, and all indications are that the authorities want to frustrate the emancipation of homosexuals there. my group is concerned about this, as it is also concerned about a number of developments in latvia and lithuania, for example, but also in other countries. i am concerned that the groups often do not dare to express themselves explicitly on this subject. take the liberals. when it comes to the misuse of european subsidies, we are called upon to do something about naming and shaming. but now that it is really a question of basic european values, we are suddenly silent. i don't think that's right. i hope therefore that individual members will still vote in favour of the amendments, so that we can also mention man and horse in concrete terms. (applause from the left)
mr president, homophobia is a major problem in europe and not just in some member states. i am therefore pleased that my proposal to monitor hate crimes against gays and lesbians, bisexuals and transgender people has been included in the joint resolution against homophobia in europe. this is new and i am glad that parliament is supporting this innovation. i would now like to hear from the commissioner how the commission intends to shape monitoring. measurement is knowing, and this certainly applies to the extent of violence and hostility based on sexual orientation or towards transgender people. i think there's too little attention for transgender people. unfortunately, the exclusion, violence and misunderstanding faced by transgender people is still commonplace in all member states of the european union. the european union is still doing far too little to protect the human rights of gays and lesbians, bisexuals and transgender people. the european union has the opportunity to show its muscle, and it is high time that the european union showed its muscle. you protect human rights or you don't. now is the time to put this fine theory into practice and to do so by using the means at the eu's disposal, such as suspending the voting rights of a member state.
mr president, i have been a member of this parliament for a year and a half now and i find the experience … (the president asked the speaker to quote the rule under which she wished to take the floor)i do not have the rules of procedure here, mr president. it is a very brief question. it is very frustrating that every time we ask questions in the debates, we never get a reply. i asked a very precise question and i did not get an answer.
mr president, on the basis of rule 143(1), i wish to state that mr frattini is making out that we are all stupid because it was he who prepared the communication on the broader framework directive. however, he did not bring forward a directive, as parliament requested, because it seems there was no unanimity ...
mr president, human trafficking is a very serious violation of human rights. in various ways, women and children are recruited under false pretenses, and then exploited in slave-like dependence. often, victims of human trafficking end up in prostitution to be treated as untermenschen. we must protect them against this, inside and outside the community, by all means available, both in the corrective and preventive spheres. this means that when these modern slaves live within the circuit, they must be actively given the opportunity to break the vicious circle and start a different life. but we also need to prevent people from getting into this circuit. prostitution is not a normal industry in which labor is provided. it should not be treated as such. prostitutes don't buy service, they abuse other people's bodies. that's a form of violence. i think that, like other forms of violence, should be punishable. the best preventive measure against trafficking in human beings is to criminalize prostitutes. i would like to thank mrs prets for her report. i hope that the honourable member will accept my amendments as a further clarification of this report.
mr president, tonight everyone is in favour of giving much greater priority to combating trafficking in women and children for sexual purposes in europe. that is why i should like to thank mrs prets for her report, which contains so many concrete recommendations. we are talking about many hundreds of thousands of women and children who are entering this criminal industry every year, the fastest growing criminal activity, and there is very easy, very big money to be made. so more effort is needed. mr president, we must also start close to home, because there can be no market without customers. there is money to be made and therefore customers are needed, so we must start close to home to raise awareness and public sensitivity and also visibility of this distressing problem and discourage the exploitation of these women and children in our member states. the european day against trafficking in human beings, which this report calls for, can be a good means of doing this. i wonder what commissioner frattini thinks about this, whether he will adopt this idea. but it is also good that we do not shy away from the sacred houses in this report, which we call the football world cup, because these kinds of big events often have a magnetic effect on the criminals who want to take a hit here, at the expense of women and children. we must also, mr president, take a much more decisive approach to the detection and prosecution of these criminals. the european legislation to combat trafficking in human beings is being implemented too slowly and the fight against trafficking is still not given sufficient priority by the investigating authorities. i have therefore proposed that the annual reports we are asking for should include this legislation. europol too must give much greater priority to this detection. it is in their mandate and now they must act. mr president, there is still a lot more to be said, but i think that this report is a good start to tackling this problem more proactively.
the sixth wto ministerial conference was not a failure, but the very modest progress in hong kong makes 2006 a particularly difficult year for negotiations. i would like to ask the european commission how it intends to get the other partners moving. the g20's salamitactique, which was denounced by commissioner mandelson, has left the european union with virtually nothing in the area of industrial products and services, despite the fact that it took a long time to reach an agreement on the end of export subsidies in 2013. the european commission must therefore do everything in its power to maintain the momentum of hong kong in 2006 so that an acceptable agreement is reached in the industrial and service sectors as well. i would also like to ask the european commission what efforts it is going to make to give so-called non-trade issues a more prominent place on the agenda.
mr president, free access to the american and japanese markets for the least developed countries is a positive thing, but the fact that many products have been excluded has greatly weakened this advantage. the same applies to a large number of sensitive products for which no progress has been made, including, in my view, the eu's own approach. countries dependent on cotton, bananas and sugar were also clearly left disappointed. it is very positive that there is now finally an expiry date for export subsidies in 2013, which i believe is late but which fortunately has been set. i hope that the commission will start to phase out these disruptive export subsidies much sooner and i am curious to see a precise timetable. the eu has committed €1 billion for 2010 in aid for trade measures. can the commission tell me where i can find that amount in the council's multiannual budget? the same applies to the 200 million for countries dependent on sugar production and the commitments there. i think we are still in the grip of bad checks and it is clear that we reject the idea that the poor people of latin america, asia or africa should pay for our solidarity. the european union must show courage if this round of developments is to be a success. not by pushing hard for the liberalization of services at the g20 - look at how difficult it is for us to do this ourselves within the european union. we can do so by putting labour standards at the heart of the global agenda for the next round and by reforming our agriculture more rapidly and more extensively now in this round. a failure has been avoided and for that the commissioner deserves much praise. but we cannot be sure of success at the end of 2006 unless this is actually completed and implemented in a fair way.
president, commissioner, could we have expected more from the wto summit in hong kong? i don't think it was. why should countries be showing the back of their tongues now when the final result is scheduled for the end of this year? it is only logical that more time should be taken to achieve the maximum balance between aid to poor countries and attention to the economic strength of the countries themselves. i think the participants are motivated to reach new trade agreements. good agreements are needed to prevent trade from becoming a wild west story. law and order in commerce is of concern to all. i am also confident that there will eventually be broad support for improving the position of the poor countries. i therefore see the result as a hopeful interim step. but there is still a lot to be done before this round can be called a genuine round of development. i welcome the commitment to abolish export subsidies in agriculture, including indirect ones. and also with the initiatives like eba from other countries, which should also apply to them for more products and for all ldcs. i am also thinking of the development of special and differential treatment and capacity building. i am glad that the commissioner also feels that this round should be a development round and i would like to congratulate him on his energy and commitment. i think he is negotiating from an extra difficult position, because his mandate is publicly known in advance as the result of a public decision-making process in the union. it is good that the member states have always drawn a line and perhaps a pity that the european strategy was attacked more than that of other negotiators, sometimes from the european angle itself. is it not also because of this that the european union has often been singled out, even though it is much stronger and does much more than other countries? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is still a lot to be done in these areas.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat climate change. the resolution which is before us tomorrow gives a good and complete overview of the results and expectations of the montreal climate conference in december. but let me begin by extending my sincere congratulations to the entire delegation of the european union who participated in this conference. both the british presidency and the commission made essential contributions to the successful outcome of montreal. we have tried to contribute to this in a very sincere way as a parliamentary delegation. i think that the unity we have shown has been a decisive factor in montreal. the montreal conference was a success and the climate resolution expresses our appreciation for the opening of the dialogue on a future climate policy. the resolution looks forward to the second commitment period after 2012 and welcomes the united states on board, although we remain critical of the bush administration's lack of commitment. innovation is needed to combat climate change, the directive on tradable emission allowances is an important sign of the european union's commitment and still deserves our full support. montreal is good news, but in the last few weeks, we've also seen some bad news. the consequences of a power supply failure or the gas crisis between ukraine and russia. such a conflict is a very striking illustration of a situation in which the eu does not want to be, namely a dependency. this conflict proves once again that the european union must provide a guarantee, a guarantee of energy security. the european union can only achieve this energy security by means of an ambitious policy, a common sustainable energy policy based on energy security, diversification and energy saving. but this policy can only succeed if it is based on major leaps forward in all areas. the need for environmental technology is greater than ever; the commission has also made serious efforts to involve developing countries in this process. only ambitious policies can ensure that the eu can break out of this unfavourable position of dependence and that global warming is limited to 2 degrees. ladies and gentlemen, we have three amendments which we would like to see supported and these amendments concern environmental technology, the energy crisis and the developing countries.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr glinne, for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van miert, for his report. another solution is, as mentioned earlier, the eco-tax on the aviation industry. why do airline tickets have to be so cheap? for modal incomes, flying is usually not an option anyway, so it's okay to add a hefty tax if it's good for the climate. i also find it a real shame that the nuclear lobby is constantly taking advantage of the problem of climate change to put itself back on the map. the focus on climate change should be primarily on truly sustainable alternatives. the montreal conference may have been a minor success, but it was far from enough for me. the eu must therefore send a strong signal now that it is committed to continuing the fight against climate change.
it is a great achievement in itself to present a commission proposal which has been so long and so vehemently criticised by so many people. because that's what's going on here. of course, we all saw it yesterday with the dockers, where - i quote mr piecyk - unfortunately a minority went too far and tried to throw in their own glasses. a rather absurd action because it was directed against the only european institution which has in the past and, it seems to me, even now, properly defended the interests of dock workers. but this stupid action must not distract from the important objection that has been raised by the dock workers. the commission's proposal is that if we adopt it unchanged, there is a great danger that well-trained experienced people will be replaced by cheaper, poorly trained ship crews, and that is not something we should want. but the striking thing, of course, is that the resistance was not just from the unions. if you listen to the port services, the port employers in a lot of european ports, they say: please don't come in with a new paper shop with new rules. if you look at all the impact studies that have been done, the conclusion is: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the port authorities are able to comply with the directive. and i would like to add a third argument for the commission's attention. how is it that your commission, which has always said, through your president, that europe should only legislate when it is necessary, when it adds something and cannot be done at national level, now comes up with a proposal which seeks to solve a problem in a number of ports in southern europe by introducing uniform rules for all european ports? the conclusion of my group is that we should not do this. my appeal to the commission is: i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. proposals for state aid, the limits to which must be set; i would ask you to try to solve the problems in southern european ports in another way. (applause from the left)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. for the people who work in ports, this port directive is only causing problems. the european commission is opening up the possibility of self-regulation. this will allow skilled professionals who know how to move cargo safely and carefully to be replaced by low-paid crews from outside europe. even if the member states were to be exempted from this obligation, the directive would still be detrimental to ports where the port docks, quays and adjacent business premises are owned by the public authorities. the mandatory periodic tendering of operators may result in the people working there losing their jobs at the end of such a period. only in private ports will continuity be possible. at least, as long as they don't go bankrupt or get bought out by a competitor. this proposal has met with massive resistance. it was not until 2003 that it was finally rejected by this parliament at third reading. then, just before she left in 2004, former commissioner de palacio left the repetition of this proposal as a time bomb. a major motivation behind this may have been that there are stakeholders outside the ports who want to make shipping even cheaper. this is surprising because the tariffs in europe are lower than in asia or america and also because they represent only a negligible part of the production costs for industry. the official main argument of de palacio was to promote shipping between spain and italy, as an alternative to the large flow of trucks along the road along the southern coast of france. even without a port directive, this short sea transport has already shown a strong growth in recent years. in addition, the effect on german, dutch, belgian and french ports on the north sea and the channel with their large common hinterland would be chaos. as early as 1998, this parliament considered that a possible port directive should focus on the transparency of investments paid for with taxpayers' money and on the extent to which the charges charged cover the costs. in the two successive proposals from the european commission, this has not happened. nevertheless, until a week ago, the christian democrats and the liberals, that is to say half of this parliament, were in favour of this proposal. now, it seems that almost no one believes in it anymore. in the mood for tomorrow, we can finally defuse this time bomb.
mr president, the fact that there are problems in some european ports is a matter of record. the commission's proposal is not yet ready to give an adequate answer to these problems. the adoption of a number of amendments will not change this fundamental point. in view of the growing resistance among those concerned to the implications of this proposal, i would urge a rethinking of the need for this measure at this time. in my view, this proposal is not the right action at the right time, despite the imminent arrival of the services directive. sectoral legislation for ports is desirable, as are rules on state aid in ports. however, this proposal does not meet the requirement to deal with existing problems without imposing excessive administrative and organizational burdens. i therefore call on my colleagues to reject this proposal and i ask the commission to submit a new, more targeted proposal together with a proposal for the regulation of state aid to ports. i wholeheartedly support the amendments which seek to achieve this.
we started with an unenforced commission proposal, but under the leadership of mr jarzembowski we have drawn up a good package of amendments with certainty, with more certainty for companies and workers in ports and without self-handling. the latter seems to have not yet been understood by the trade union movement and by some of the members of this house. unfortunately, there was more struggle and emotion than a good discussion of the substance and monsieur le commissaire, c'est le ton qui fait la musique. it is because the commission, your predecessor admittedly, started the debate wrongly. why not withdraw this directive? i would like you to explain this later, because that would be the best thing. but the political reality today is that there is not enough support for the transport committee's massive package of amendments; there was still a small majority. and because there is not enough support for the package of amendments, we cannot support that directive. but i am and remain convinced that we need a specific european port policy. my colleagues and mr jarzembowski in particular have already explained this very well here. i have tabled a proposal on behalf of the epp together with mr jarzembowski. we ask the commissioner to come up with a vision paper on the broad port policy, including competition between ports, as a basis for hopefully a good discussion. commissioner, are you prepared to come up with such a substantive discussion document? and would you also like to include the substance of the package of amendments, as drafted by mr jarzembowski? i hope that we can have a good discussion about it.
in writing. we have voted for the report, keeping in mind that some elements of the text were not appropriate to be considered in this report, including some elements of eu citizenship, the positive stance on the constitution of the eu, election of some meps on the basis of transnational lists, the proposal on the european tax, etc. we voted against these elements of the text, but finally voted for the report in pursuing the better course of the migrant people in europe. we kept in mind that this was only an own initiative report without legal consequences.
mr president, i must be brief. what i want to do is to emphasize the foreign policy aspects of what we have experienced in recent weeks, when russia threatened to cut off gas supplies to ukraine. for those of us who have worked with those countries for many years, it was not really a surprise. because russia has threatened before, and i believe it has carried out a threat, to use the energy weapon to exert political pressure on countries in the immediate vicinity. but of course, the consequence of what happened was also a shock to the european union and forces us to this discussion today. what i said - i have to be brief - there are three conclusions that are important to us when it comes to those foreign aspects: first, that we need to diversify our supply, our sources. most of the countries that energy comes from are unstable, so the more countries we can include in our supply, the better. secondly, we must look again at the pipeline situation in europe. how vulnerable we are because most of the gas is being piped through, say, ukraine. are there any alternatives? thirdly, we must make it very clear that we can only secure our energy supply in the long term if we can work with partners who are reliable, partners who are also democratic. finally, energy policy, which i think is also clearer than ever, also foreign and trade policy.
president. - in november the council decided to reform the european sugar sector by reducing prices by 36% over four years, with compensation of more than eur 7 billion for the european sugar sector. it is important that part of this compensation should go not only to farmers and industry but also to the workers who may have lost their jobs as a result of the reform. they must not be forgotten, and i would like to have the commissioner's assurance that they will be included in the re-training and retraining aid for finding suitable jobs. i support the council's decision to no longer delay the free entry of sugar from the least developed countries under the eba. we are talking about people for whom, especially in the face of the sharp fall in prices, sugar exports are vital. we must deliver on our promises and open our market in 2009; that delay has gone on long enough. i regret the council's decision not to give a final decision on the abolition of c sugar. c sugar is disrupting the world market price and we should therefore look for alternative uses of any surplus, such as energy production. commissioner, can you still guarantee that c sugar will be abolished? and then you decided to introduce a 25% rule to counter triangular trade, i understand. but can you confirm that if it exceeds 25%, that investigation is only to prevent this triangular trade and not to raise other issues? and can you also confirm that it will not have suspensive effect? yesterday, commissioner mandelson said: indeed, we need 200 million for the acp countries if we are to help them seriously. mr fruteau was right when he said: it's unacceptable, that 40 million; it's not clear where that money is; it's got to be fresh money. can you promise that in any case the commission will do its utmost to find those 200 million per year and not to do so at the expense of the category 4 development budget? because that would really be a cigar from the poorest countries' own box, and that is the wrong kind of solidarity.
mr president, we can only say that this debate is a bit like mustard after the meal. the commissioner, and i congratulate her on the fact that her ideas have been largely adopted by the council, was tactful enough to say that parliament had a great deal of influence. i would like to congratulate mr fruteau on that, but whatever we decide today or tomorrow in a resolution will have little effect on the final result. i too am one of those who felt that a sugar reform was necessary. we 've been convicted by the wto panel; we now have an arms agreement, and we must obey it, we must take it into account. it is a hard time for farmers in the member states and it is a hard time for farmers in the acp countries. i agree with many who have said that for those acp countries it should not be the case that sugar becomes the most important product, at least as important will be energy production. we know of techniques - already used in brazil, among others - which convert sugar cane directly into alcohol. i would encourage the commission to support the acp countries as much as possible in this process, because sugar cane can be better used for energy production in those countries, at least if they are in the tropics. meanwhile, another problem is looming. if i am correctly informed, there will soon be a surplus of some 2 million tonnes of sugar on the european market. this is because there is less export potential, there has been a large harvest. there is still a large stock of intervention sugar and it seems that in the first year participation in the restructuring will be lower than expected. question no 6 by mr de gucht what does the commission intend to do in the short term with the surplus of these 2 million tonnes of sugar?
president, commissioner, the sugar reform as it is now being proposed will have very negative consequences for poor developing countries and acp countries which are now losing access to the market or are getting a lower price for their products. any agricultural reform which is bad for developing countries is bad reform in my view. the reform is also detrimental to the incomes of thousands of farmers and sugar workers, without any proper social plan to counter it. that makes it a worthless reform. finally, this reform is not profitable for the european taxpayer, because it is budgetary neutral. these three facts together make it possible to speak of a disastrous reform. the european sugar policy must certainly be reformed, but not in a way that benefits only the large food producers.
mr president, the sugar reform is first and foremost a social problem facing farmers and workers in europe and the third world. social justice means opening up the european market on a global scale. this reform is inevitable and painful. but if you're gonna go through the fire, you better jump. the commissioner made a giant leap, the council made a slightly smaller leap and our parliament would like to make a slightly smaller leap. but the workers and farmers are worried and demand strong social guarantees. that's right. the restructuring fund is therefore indispensable. our pressure has resulted in a larger fund, a larger restructuring fund, and that is important. we'd like more. because workers want more than retraining, they want new jobs when their factory closes. bioethanol is a way out, provided its production is energy efficient. research into this will require more money. only in this way can we have a social future for the sector - a sustainable future - and only in this way can the sector accept this reform.
the application of the aarhus convention to the european institutions is a major step forward, as it contributes to the necessary transparency of european regulation. this will increase public participation in the preparation of environmental plans and programmes. this regulation strengthens democracy in the field of the environment. the aarhus provisions on access to information, participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters will apply throughout the union. it is no longer only the member states who will have to comply with these provisions, but also the community institutions. access to justice, as provided for in the aarhus convention, implies that the public should have the opportunity to bring environmental decisions of the institutions of the european union before the european court of justice. at present, citizens with an environmental interest or environmental ngos have no chance of bringing an action before the court, because they are rarely directly and individually affected (the conditions for access to justice laid down in the ec treaty). this is often easier for economic actors to prove. of course it is important that ngos have the same access to justice, although there are some criticisms to be made of the way this has been framed by the european commission and the environment committee (in particular amendments 22 and 25). the amendments also impose strict conditions on ngos that can apply for internal review, in order to prevent many hundreds of ngos from having to go to court with minor complaints. but even with these conditions - which are here now and which the rapporteur proposes in particular - there will be many ngos who will be able to make such a request. it is not desirable that every environmental decision of the european institutions should be brought before the court of justice, because it creates legal uncertainty and will only add to the enormous workload of the european judiciary. on the other hand, where there are serious and justified doubts about a particular environmental decision, there should be the possibility of challenging it. in my group there are two ways of thinking: there is a section of my group which strongly supports amendments nos 22 and 25, because they believe that it will remove inequality, that it will give a better effect to the aarhus convention and that it will be in line with the ec treaty. another part of the group thinks the opposite, namely that inequality is being created because environmental ngos would be given a privileged position and that it would also be at least at odds with the treaty. i can only regret that there is no middle way to give ngos a voice when they really need it without the risk of frequently raising minor objections. i think it would be better if the treaty simply increased the possibility of access to justice (the constitutional treaty would have done that, but unfortunately that is no longer the case).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is it really necessary to establish standards for bathing water at european level? is this not a typical example of a matter which member states can do themselves? i know that my colleagues from the dutch social democrats, who are not here today, have even mentioned the shameful swimming pool directive in a report. it is not a directive on swimming pools, much less a directive on bathing water, but on the water of beaches and lakes. the question whether european action in this area would add value has been raised. we have rightly discussed this in this parliament at first reading and the european parliament did not share that doubt at the time. but more importantly, the member states, and above all the member states, felt that a directive was needed. if they think so, then there should be one, but i think it should be a serious directive and not one which is there but which is mainly about creating exceptions. so, after more than 12 years of discussion, a difficult compromise between the council and parliament has now been reached and i believe that it will be transposed into legislation tomorrow. the new directive will ensure cleaner bathing water on europe's beaches and lakes, better information for swimmers and less red tape for local authorities. across the european union, more than 80% of bathing water sites already comply with the higher standards, and in some member states, more than 90% of bathing water sites do so. currently, about 12 percent of swimmers suffer from nausea, stomach flu, rash, constipation, or an eye or ear infection each year. the new directive thus raises health standards, which will result in an estimated 8% of swimmers falling ill in 2015. from 2015, the swimmer will also be informed of the current bathing water quality at the bathing site itself, using symbols that will be identical throughout europe. now, as a swimming consumer, you can only see the quality of the previous year, and that with some effort and only on the internet. i'm excited to be able to see the water quality on the spot, because i don't know about you, but i rarely take my laptop to the beach. instead of 19 parameters, member states will have to measure 2 parameters and that is an example of how much less bureaucracy will be applied in measuring water. the european parliament and governments have long been at odds over the question of how strict the standards should be and how high the costs to the member states should be. we have reached a compromise which we can all be satisfied with and i think the british presidency deserves a compliment in that respect, but certainly the european commission and you, commissioner, have played an important role in bringing about the compromise and i would also like to thank many of the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation in this. the bathing water is not just cleaner, it's much cleaner, the costs are controllable, and there's deregulation. i am, and i will conclude with this, mr president, looking forward to the commission's comments on the forthcoming article by mr wiedenmann in the scientific journal environmental health perspectives, in which he says in complicated english: concentration responsive effects with no observed adverse effect levels, abbreviated noaels. i can't exactly define the term itself, but perhaps you can. i am curious, however, whether the commission will include this study in its evaluation report in 2008, because there are quite a few pertinent comments on the directive as we now take it. i just think we can't really bring it into the timeline anymore. i shall be very pleased if the directive is actually adopted tomorrow. i think it's a success for all of us, including me, who's not exactly a keen swimmer. i only go in the water when i really have to. i will now, after 2015, at least enter the water with a little more peace of mind. i hope, commissioner, that i shall be happy to do so in your member state.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. thanks to his efforts, we can adopt the revision of the bathing water directive tomorrow. i would also like to thank the european commission for its cooperation, because without the ambitious proposal it has made, it would not have been possible to achieve the tightening of the criteria. i can tell you, mr president, that i will therefore be voting in favour of the outcome of the conciliation tomorrow, even though i am not entirely satisfied with the result achieved. the category of 'acceptable' that has been created is nothing more than a shame sheet for the lack of serious tightening of standards. the separation between fresh and salt water is also based on very limited information, and this all leads to a much lower level of protection for swimmers than would otherwise be possible. i would like to draw the attention of the commission and the council to the article which has also been mentioned by jules maaten and which will be published next month. the article makes clear what standards we need to have to really protect swimmers. i hope, commissioner dimas, that you will use this information in the next review, which i hope will not take too long.
mr schüssel, first of all, welcome. the austrian presidency will be marked by two major themes: the failed constitutional process and the services directive. i can be very simple about the constitution. he's dead, you know. that is what the dutch people think and that is what the french people think. two member states have rejected the constitution and that is why it is out of date. the sooner the european union admits this, the sooner we can begin the necessary reforms: reducing eu interference in matters of national responsibility, ending money laundering and fraud in europe and genuinely democratising the eu. the services directive. austria wants a compromise between the different camps. but if a compromise is sought between multinationals on the one hand and trade unions on the other, it will always mean a deterioration of working conditions in europe. moreover, no compromise can be reached on the core of the proposal, the principle of the country of origin. my party and my group reject competition on terms of employment or social dumping as the future of europe. so we reject the proposed directive. europe did not want a constitution; europe does not want this services directive. the austrian presidency could make history by being the first to really listen to what the people want. but if we choose to force a constitution and this services directive down people's throats, this will only strengthen the resistance to european cooperation.
the president, chancellor, you can be sure that after a presidency marked by stagnation, we have all too high expectations of the austrian presidency of the council. it is up to you, chancellor, to draw up a report on the future of europe, based on the report to be produced during your term of office. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. it is also about europe's future prosperity, growth and employment. the council must set priorities so that the lisbon strategy can be put into practice. this can also strengthen competitiveness and safeguard the european prosperity model. it is also about the future of the european social model, which you, mr schüssel, rightly mentioned this morning. six months ago, prime minister blair made a big speech about his intention to modernise the european social model. an additional summit has been dedicated to it, but no results have been achieved. the challenge of globalisation has not been met, nor have measures been taken to re-establish the european social model in a society which is changing, a society which is becoming silver, a society which is becoming greener, a society in which borders are no longer borders. chancellor, may your presidency be more than just pretty words. let us work together to reinterpret our european social model and then let us deal with those who create contradictions between the market and its proper functioning and the social policy which is so essential to the well-being of our citizens. the social market economy is certainly also for christian democrats the foundation of a society based on people. and i admit that in my own circle, but also in the socialist circle, free market thinking is gaining ground and that sometimes you get the feeling that you are a crying wolf in the desert. i hope that this presidency, together with the committee on social affairs and employment which reports on this, will establish a better basis. i thank you very much for your coulence, mr president.
in writing. the majority of the european parliament is putting the functioning of the european union at risk by throwing the council's common position on the financial perspective for 2007-2013 into the trash. we disagree with that. firstly, the member states collect the contributions for the european union. parliament is putting on too big a pants when it wants to force member states to make more money available to the eu. secondly, in the light of the principle of subsidiarity, there are items in the european budget for which much less or no money should be spent: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. furthermore, eu propaganda spending and subsidies to 'pro-european' think tanks serve no useful purpose. thirdly, cohesion and structural funds policy should focus on the less-favoured regions in those member states whose gdp is less than 80% of the eu average. the logical consequence of this is that structural support policy is shifting from the southern to the eastern member states. the european parliament has to be more resourceful in the interests of citizens and limit the eu to its core tasks. in short: doing more with less!
in writing. to be very clear: i do not reject the european council's common position. however, the european parliament, as one arm of the legislative and budgetary authority, should be able to play its full parliamentary role in the definition of policies, their reform and their budget. i therefore support the willingness of this house to enter into constructive negotiations with the council.
in writing. although the sp is satisfied with the reduction in the eu budget, and in particular with the improvement in the dutch payment position, we are still very critical of the way the remaining money is spent. the skewed distribution of agricultural subsidies, the wasteful diversion of funds and the promotion of prestige projects have not yet been eliminated. the fact that the budgetary agreement is now the one that is hurting the really poor member states is intolerable.
in writing. today the european parliament adopted a resolution on europe's multiannual budget. i welcome the compromise reached by the council in december 2005 and see it as a good starting point for further negotiations between the european parliament and the council. the successful efforts of the dutch government through minister zalm van financiën remain intact as far as i am concerned. the council's decision to give the netherlands a rebate on its 1 billion contribution to the eu is outside the competence of parliament and will therefore not be part of the negotiations. i believe that europe needs to invest more in knowledge, innovation and entrepreneurship. i do not see that reflected enough in the present compromise. i also believe that the european parliament, like any national parliament, must take its responsibility in the adoption of the budget. the negotiations which the european parliament opens with the council are similar to the debate which the house of commons has with the cabinet on the occasion of prince's day.
in writing. the subject of this resolution, the quality of bathing water, is important, but should in my opinion, from the viewpoint of subsidiarity, be dealt with at the national level. there is no added value in regulating this subject at the european level. for this reason i vote against this resolution.
in writing. in a society based on democratic values, i believe that every party should be granted equal rights. it therefore includes equal, non-discriminatory access to justice for citizens, businesses and ngos. article 230 (4) of the treaty already provides for this and is therefore sufficient. that is why i thought i should vote against amendments nos 19, 22, 24 and 25.
in writing. port services must be covered by a legislative framework taking into account their specificity. a community framework would allow equitable access to port activities. furthermore an integrated policy is necessary to facilitate the development of european ports. it would also be the opportune moment for due consideration of the role of the managing body of the port as well as the operating methods of the port. in addition, very clear clarification on state aid rules is essential in order to guarantee transparent and fair competition between european ports. decisions on a case-by-case basis, which would lead to a 'gouvernement des juges', where the two legislative bodies of the european union are left aside, are not acceptable. the european commission's proposal was not sufficiently complete to gain support. following the rejection of this proposal, and for all reasons mentioned, i urge the european commission to enter into a vast consultation process with all parties concerned, also giving voice to those parties neglected until now and representing the demand side, and to propose an ambitious white paper on european seaports policy in its entirety, and this at the earliest possible opportunity.
in writing. i voted against the directive because we could only vote for or against the original commission proposal. the proposal for a new port directive is lacking in many respects. a substantial package of amendments has been drawn up by the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, but unfortunately there was insufficient support for them. we must continue the debate on a european port policy in the broad sense, which is why i have asked the commissioner to come up with a discussion paper, which hopefully will be a good one.
in writing. the dutch delegation of the ind/dem group will support the uen group resolution on homophobia. the dutch delegation of the ind/dem group will withdraw its support for the resolutions of the ppe-de, alde, greens/efa and gue/ngl and the joint motion for a resolution on homophobia in the european union. the dutch delegation can agree with the uen group resolution because only this resolution makes it clear that policy measures in the field of discrimination are the responsibility of the member states. the principle of subsidiarity should be applied here. we also reject calls for homophobia and violence against people on the grounds of their sexual orientation. we believe that policies aimed at preventing discrimination on grounds of religion, race and sexual orientation are a matter for the member states. the resolutions of the various political groups go beyond this principle by explicitly addressing the political situation in a number of member states.
the tone of the report by mr duff and mr voggenhuber reminds me very much of the debate in the house a year ago. the european parliament then embraced the constitution with great fanfare, and nothing seemed to stand in the way of a successful ratification by all 25 member states. i am disappointed to see that the ep has not learned the lesson of the double no. this house is not thinking about the future of europe, but about a strategy to get the twice rejected constitution ratified. all this, of course, under the guise of considerable measures to reassure public opinion. in the face of these transparent attempts to ignore the express wishes of the french and dutch electorate, i would nevertheless like to express my appreciation for some of the amendments tabled by the two rapporteurs. at least they are not obsessively adhering to the current constitution. moreover, they seem to have understood the 'no' in france and the netherlands better than my colleagues from the large groups and they show a greater willingness to give it real thought. i have heard my colleague, mr voggenhuber, speak of nationalism. i think his intellectual capacity is so high that he does not understand all the opponents of this constitution, because i really have nothing to do with it.
president, the constitution is dead, long live the treaty. it is true that the constitutional treaty was rejected because of the context more than because of the text, but it is also true that the text of the constitutional treaty proved too weak to resolve the problems of the context. there were insufficient or no bold and appealing ideas. why do we not give the citizens real influence and let them, for example, directly elect the president of the european commission or create the possibility of a european corrective referendum? so, not 25 or 27 small referendums, but a real european referendum, or why not create a real european political space, a european res publica. but then about that context. the citizens of my country, the netherlands, and i suspect most other member states, do not want to talk about the institutions, thank you very much. what they want is a europe that is competitive, that creates jobs, that takes action against terrorism and crossborder crime, that has a proper foreign policy, that is simply doing its job. if that fails, it is like trying to revive a treaty revision, pulling a dead horse and talking in vain. we need a new treaty to make europe more democratic and more efficient, but we are in no hurry. the many excellent ideas put forward by our rapporteurs include extending the period of reflection until the end of 2007, keeping several options open, and also, in general, an approach on how we should conduct the debate which i think is excellent. but what we don't need is a document called a constitution that has scared people off, instead of engaging them; a rose smells just as good if you call it something else. the fact that the name and the text are being obstinately and obstinately adhered to is therefore an insurmountable problem for my party. if the solution is to put forward an improved text - and i really hope we succeed in doing so, because it is important - then i am in favour of putting it before all european citizens in a referendum at the same time as the next european elections.
president. - there are two very different forms of neighbourhood policy. the first is based on our own self-interest, on attempts to make the environment serve economic and military desires developed within the european union. we are satisfied with neighbouring countries that supply us with oil and gas, that keep refugees out of our territory and that subject their own people to dictatorial measures designed to prevent our interests from being harmed. in such a model, neighbourhood policy is also a means of keeping those areas with a lower standard of living, with less democracy and with fewer human rights permanently out of the rich fortress of europe. these countries are only called upon to provide cheap labour for a limited period of time. such a neighborhood would be very similar to the way the united states has dealt with latin america for two centuries. there is also a very different kind of neighbourhood policy. it is based on the assumption that we have done a lot of things better in this part of europe than in other countries and that we have something to offer others. this includes the promotion of democracy and human rights, including in belarus, tunisia, algeria and the still occupied palestinian territories. it also means that we are contributing to economic development, which should bring these countries to a level of prosperity similar to ours. in some cases, notably for the western balkans, but possibly also for ukraine, belarus, moldova and turkey, it may also represent a transition phase towards full membership of the european union. my group rejects the first form of neighbourhood policy entirely, but can wholeheartedly support the second model. fortunately, the second variant is the dominant one in mr tannock's report, and most of the amendments also favour democracy, human rights and solidarity over economic and military advantage. if the council and the commission follow this line, our neighbourhood policy is going in the right direction.
in his interesting report mr tannock rightly draws attention to the current situation in the eu's neighbour belarus. in particular, in paragraph 56 it urges all the european institutions to strengthen support for civil society and the country's political opposition. in this context, commissioner, i would like to ask what progress has been made with the brussels plans to establish a delegation in minsk. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the european union's external relations policy. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. it is also a prerequisite for the eventual establishment of an active neighbourhood with belarus. i fear that the present authoritarian regime of president lukashenko has little regard for this. it probably wants a toothless european delegation on its own territory as an international credential. commissioner, does this attitude of minsk prevent the european delegation from coming to the belarusian capital? the rapporteur, mr tannock, is equally keen to see a political settlement of the long-standing transnistrian issue. it therefore calls on all parties concerned to do so. unfortunately for moldova, two of these parties - russia and ukraine - issued a joint statement on the transnistrian conflict just a month ago - in mid-december 2005 - without mentioning chişinău. president putin and president yushchenko did not inform the united states, the european union or romania of this. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime. the repetition of an earlier move by yevgeni primakov in 1997, which received no international support and was explicitly rejected by moldova. in passing, putin and yushchenko now jointly claim responsibility for 'peace, stability and the well-being of the people of moldova, for russians and ukrainians on both sides of the dniester'. that simply implies a russian-ukrainian condominium. at the same time, on 15 december 2005, kiev and moscow accepted each other's solutions to the transnistrian issue as "complementary". the commission has already made a number of proposals, including the one on the right, which i think is the sealing of a state division of moldova, the international legitimization of russia's military presence in transnistria and the establishment of a 'democratic neutral state of moldova'. commissioner, how do you interpret this bilateral agreement between putin and yevchenko on moldova's future in the context of the european neighbourhood policy? thank you. i look forward to the answer to my two questions.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, rapporteur onesta has tried to strike a balance between indignation at the actions of some members and guarantees of freedom of expression. the positive aspect is that members who are punished do not lose their right to vote and can appeal. i think, however, that this proposal may prove counterproductive. it is an invitation to members of parliament to make the news by calling for criminal measures against themselves and thereby playing the role of martyrs to the public. it also tempts fearful presidents to be unnecessarily harsh with people they do not consider their friends. moreover, any incident will lead to calls to rule out any unforeseen annoyances by even stricter rules. disruptive debates and the visible display of dissent are part of normal parliamentary practice. the european parliament is making a fool of itself if it is excluded from a number of meetings or even suspended as a member. the media then report less on the content of the debate and decision-making and more on the lack of tolerance. that is the wrong signal to the voters, and therefore it would be better if such a regulation were limited to preventing and punishing physical violence.
on behalf of the ind/dem group president, good news from iraq?! that sounds almost politically out of line. however, i would argue against that on the basis of my own recent experience, and especially if i hear any noises in here. in the middle of november last year i had the privilege of participating as a member of the european parliament in a major international conference on the democratization of the middle east, which was also addressed by mr mcmillan-scott. the scene was arbil, the capital of the autonomous kurdistan region in northern iraq. in complete peace, in complete security and openness, scientists from europe discussed with kurdish government and parliament members the prospects and problems of the emergence of democratic states based on the rule of law in the wider region. so, fortunately, iraq is far from being just the depressing scene of relentlessly gruesome terrorist attacks. it is precisely in iraqi kurdistan that the european union has a unique opportunity today to make a substantial contribution to the urgent task of overall reconstruction of the two-stream country. i would like to ask the commissioner if she shares this view and, if so, what initiatives the european commission is already taking or is preparing to take in northern iraq. at the same time, i address this house: kurdish colleagues in iraq look forward to contacts with the european parliament. democratisation of the middle east? let us not confine ourselves to recommendations on paper, but give them personal content through concrete political relations!
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against racism and xenophobia. in developing countries, the percentage is often even higher, as mr bowis has already said. when we talk about disabled people in developing countries, we're talking about people who are both physically and mentally disabled, both blind people and children with war trauma, so hundreds of millions of people. in developing countries, there are often no facilities and disabled people often live in isolation. unesco estimates that 98% of children with disabilities in those countries are not in school. the numbers speak for themselves. special policy attention is needed for this group. the millennium development goals are also particularly difficult to achieve if we leave such a large proportion of the population behind. the disabled do not automatically benefit from poverty reduction programmes, and there is no mainstreaming in this area. the problems were clear, mr president, and they are clear, and the question is what we do about them. as mentioned, in 2003 the commission prepared a guidance note for all delegations and services. this gave disabled people a place in development policy. my question to the commission is: - and the commission has already said how it is being dealt with, namely mainly through political dialogue - is there anything more to be said about the results? are there more specific measures targeted at the disabled? have practical solutions been found to certain problems, for example in the field of education? education is the key to combating poverty and social exclusion, which affect the majority of the disabled. are disabled people themselves involved in the formulation and implementation of programmes? in the netherlands this is being done and the results are very good. finally, what is the commission doing to exchange and pool knowledge in this field?
in writing. chechnya was conquered by the russian empire in the 19th century, its population was temporarily deported by stalin, and more recently, under yeltsin and putin, it has been murdered and bombed. the commitment made by russia after the first war in the 1990s, through lebed, the peace negotiator, to allow a democratic choice for independence after a transitional period, has never been fulfilled. the chechens must therefore no longer be expected to consider themselves part of russia. no people wants to submit to its most brutal murderers and oppressors. the resistance will therefore continue indefinitely, and i fear its suppression by a military superpower. this resolution is relatively mild about the intimidation and the falsification of the elections held in the meantime, which were supposed to give a majority to moscow's puppets. the text also reaffirms the territorial integrity of russia, whereas the retention of this territory in russia has been based on pure violence for a century and a half. in the present hopeless situation, this resolution, which rightly points out the many abuses, is better than remaining silent about the misdeeds of our great energy supplier. that's why i'm voting for it.
president. - i have a brief explanation of vote on the voggenhuber/duff report. this is a good report. the main thrust is that europe must move forward, and this is important, because even those who voted no in the referendums were not satisfied with the europe we have today. the report states that support among the population is essential and that there are several options open, and that is also important, because the referendums are a fact, the negative referendums in france and the netherlands and the positive referendums in spain and luxembourg. i am very pleased that the current text also includes amendment no 18, which emphasizes that the concerns of citizens in countries such as france and the netherlands must be addressed. this is a clean sweep. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, because the main thrust of it is that we must move forward, that we must have the courage to break out of the impasse, but that we do so with a number of open options; the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the matter. that seems to me to be a sound line and that is why we, as the cda delegation, have wholeheartedly supported this step forward.
in writing. the pause for reflection on the european constitution has so far been characterised by silence rather than debate. with this resolution parliament is making a worthy attempt to smooth the debate. but the resolution also expresses the hope that, as a result of the pause, the current text of the constitution can be preserved. that is, in my view, illusory and undesirable. this does not justify the rejection of the constitution by the french and dutch electorate. unfortunately, parliament has ignored the warnings of its rapporteurs, mr duff and mr voggenhuber, on this point. that is why i abstained on the final vote on the resolution. the time for reflection must be used to agree on the most democratic possible procedure for a new revision of the treaty. the french and dutch 'no' to the constitution was certainly not a 'yes' to the present europe.
in writing. the duff/voggenhuber report denies the political reality in the netherlands and also in france. a call to ensure that the constitution is implemented in 2009 is an insult to the dutch voter, but also to the legal system within the eu. other passages (paragraphs 1, 5, 7, 31) also do not justify the clear 'no' vote in the netherlands. that is why i cannot vote in favour of the report. i think the netherlands should make it clear what it wants. we must renegotiate, either further on the basis of the nice treaty, or start the process all over again. if the netherlands chooses to renegotiate, clear wishes must be formulated. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament.
in writing. the constitution rejected by the electorate in the netherlands and france was a two-part piece. most voters are in favour of the opening up of council meetings, a subsidiarity test for national parliaments or the weak call for a popular initiative in article 47. they could have been introduced long ago, even without a constitution. much more controversial were the economic and military policy choices that this text would cement, such as free and undistorted competition as the eu's main objective. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. in a couples' sale, good points were held hostage by bad ones. the two rapporteurs want to maintain this link and believe that the delay in approval is only temporary. they even want to stop admitting new member states until that constitution is finally adopted. my party, the socialist party, is the largest party in the netherlands to have successfully campaigned against this constitutional text. after the rejection by the electorate, we have put forward in the dutch parliament proposals for publicity, subsidiarity and popular initiative, as mr brok has recommended here on behalf of the afet committee. i had proposed the same alternative in amendment no 6 which was rejected. a missed opportunity!
author. president, the last two presidents of peru, fujimori and toledo, have taken on the role of miracle worker as saviors of the country. in this way they have each convinced the electorate once and then disappointed them. fujimori has even taken office openly against parliamentary democracy and the wishes of the electorate. that in itself is a good reason to punish him and not give him another chance at leadership. much less convincing is the effort to get rid of him because of his japanese heritage. this is reminiscent of the method used earlier against former zambian president nkomo, who was not allowed to run again after a previous defeat on the grounds of his ancestry. fujimori fled to japan after his crimes and tried to return through chile. apparently he had the illusion that the masses in peru wanted a dictator as their leader and that they would want to put him back in power. now, all over latin america, people are electing a better kind of president. the miscalculation of fujimori provides an excellent opportunity to make it clear that former presidents can also be punished for their abuse of power. we rightly insist on a trial in peru.
author. mr president, a court in the cambodian capital phnom penh last month sentenced in absentia opposition leader sam rainsy to a year and a half in prison for insulting prime minister hun sen and prince norodom ranariddh and also ordered mr sam to pay fines of 20 million riel, or over 4,000 euros, for allegedly denigrating his political rivals. the cambodian government also arrested two human rights activists earlier this month: kem sokha, chairman of the cambodian center for human rights and yeng virak, director of the community legal education center. they were arrested in connection with the display of a banner at the meeting on the occasion of international human rights day on 10 december. after meeting with christopher hill, an american diplomat, the prime minister agreed to release on bail kem sokha and pa nguon teang on january 17, but the charges of libel against them and a number of others who have been released are not being dropped. the conviction of sam rainsy and the arrest of the human rights activists are just a few cases in a whole series of libel and indictments against public figures in the last two years. the lifting of parliamentary immunity and the conviction of cheam channy and, by default, chea poch. it is a return, mr president, to the days when hun sen led a one-party state. the developments signal a new setback and a reversal in the democratization process in south-east asia. dissenting opinions and statements should be challenged through public debate rather than court cases, and the arrest of dissenting voices in cambodia is a serious threat to freedom of expression and political pluralism in cambodia. we must oppose this new attempt by the current authorities to eliminate the opposition and turn cambodia into a glorified dictatorship.
author. - mr president, cambodia was a peaceful neighbour of vietnam when outside intervention began in the early 1970s. in vietnam, a war was raging over the reunification of the northern and southern sectors of this former french colony, where america wanted to keep the south as its own sphere of influence. the suspicion that the vietnamese guerrilla movement was using supply routes to connect the north and south, which ran through inhospitable parts of cambodia, was the reason for american intervention and the bringing to power of a friendly government. since then, relations in the once peaceful cambodia have become highly polarized. the hard-won state power must not be compromised in any way. there is a tradition of parties not wanting to form coalitions with others and not wanting to allow opposition. first there was an american-friendly regime, then the pro-chinese terror regime of pol pot and then, with vietnamese help, the hun sen government. since then, elections have produced results that have made it almost impossible to form governments with broad support. different parties do not want to cooperate with each other, but only want to govern alone. this attitude has now led to the arrest and imprisonment of opposition members of parliament. journalists, human rights activists and trade unionists are also arrested after being accused of defamation. the police and the judiciary are thus made into instruments of political struggle. i do not yet have the impression that the opposition is much more democratic than the ruling party. all political forces in cambodia will have to learn to stop this kind of behaviour. the outside world has so far failed to help cambodia develop a tolerant democracy. i remember that the defeated, bloodthirsty regime of pol pot retained international recognition for a long time. the only reason for this was that the new government of hun sen, which had freed the country from these gangs of murderers, was suspected of having friendly relations with the neighbouring country of vietnam. future signals to cambodia will have to be very different. europe must not take sides on the basis of considerations incomprehensible to the cambodians, but must consistently stand up for human rights and democracy, regardless of who is in power.
mr president, in this amendment the name of one of the members of parliament was omitted by us and i would appreciate it if it could be inserted. it is the name of chea poch. it would then read: ‘the judgment against sam rainsy and chea poch’.
president. - as an observer of the european parliament at the palestinian elections just a week ago, one giant election banner caught my attention. there, in ramallah, i saw ayatollah khomeini pictured with hamas leaders yassin and rantisi. the political message is clear: no reconciliation, no peace with the jewish state, but its erasure from the page of history. wise words from khomeini, so judges the current iranian president ahmadinejad. add to that the utterly unbelievable peaceful nuclear aspirations of the mullah regime in tehran and the test for the western world, eu and us, is signed. the historian dan diner rightly commented on the palestinian parliamentary elections with the words "with hamas in ramallah, iran has moved much closer to israel". many western-minded iranians, as i read from tehran these days, regard this development as the gradual triumph of barbarism over civilization. i sincerely hope that the european institutions do not share this resignation, but stand firmly for the right of israel to exist and thus for our own civilization.
we have listened attentively to mr solana's speech, mr president, and particularly to the beginning of his explanation of what happened in january. i hope that this will not be a pattern for the rest of the year and that we will have to see every month that new elements are being added to the foreign policy agenda. i myself found his main point to be the remarks he made, particularly at the beginning, on the situation in europe following the problems with gas supplies to ukraine and other countries. and i think that energy policy has been put much higher on our agenda because of what happened in early january. i draw a number of conclusions from these recent events. firstly, i think that we as consumers may not have been properly organised. our power supply is vulnerable, it seems. too vulnerable, because the consequences of an unexpected energy shortage can be catastrophic. secondly, i note that some member states are more vulnerable than others, and that is a bit contrary to the idea of solidarity that we know within the european union. and there are certainly vulnerable countries in our immediate vicinity, as has been shown, and the need for mutual solidarity, including with our neighbours, is therefore clear. it is also a technical matter, of course, and we can invest in better and more diversified lines of communication to ourselves. the third point i want to make here, and this is the most important, is that energy resources and their availability are being used as a political weapon, in this case against ukraine, but also against moldova and, in fact, also against georgia. we have warned of this in the past. the russians have threatened to do that before and i think we have to be very tough on russia on that point; i would like to say that we have to be careful not to become so dependent on russia that we are not able to say anything to russia at some point, to keep our mouths shut because we have become too dependent. finally, a final comment on this year's agenda. that agenda is covering itself. the european union cannot shirk its responsibility. i would ask the council and the commission in particular to consider how it is that after such successes as in georgia, serbia and ukraine, things are now threatening to go the other way. did we make mistakes? i think that should also be a subject of analysis.
president. - mr president, for some people, including in europe, cuba is paradise. in the eyes of others, it's hell. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. for almost half a century, the same movement has been in power with the same leader. the inhabitants are not free to travel abroad, nor to accept any prize awarded to them. opposition parties have little chance of organising, and even if they do, they do not have the chance to determine in elections how large or small the proportion of the population that supports them is. as in the great neighbouring country, the united states, there are death sentences, which are negative points that can and should be criticised. with all this criticism of cuba, i resist the idea that this is a dictatorship. this country has high expectations and has been an example for the rest of latin america for years in the fields of education, health care and other public services and the protection of the most vulnerable groups of the population. in terms of democracy and human rights, it was certainly no worse than the rest of what latin america was then. it is still the inspiration for the modernization supported by a majority of the voters in venezuela, brazil, bolivia, chile, argentina and uruguay. europe has never followed the north american isolation of cuba, and rightly so. much of what is wrong with cuba is being promoted by that isolation. if we want to improve cuba, we need an open relationship.
mr president, for the first time in 2005, castro and roque spoke personally about cuba after castro. in the meantime, the cuban people are tired of the struggle to stay afloat, and the small groups of cubans who dare to set up their own political or social activities are factually denied a life. europe must speak with one voice in havana. clearly, against the serious violations of human rights, clearly, in favour of a dialogue with the authorities on political and economic reforms which must prevent the loss of what was gained in health care and education in the first years of the revolution. but it also ends the totalitarian regime and the blockade of economic reforms. only then can cubans, through their own initiatives, agriculture and small markets, look forward to better times, without violence and not from miami. europe must now think about offering cuba a social, economic and democratic perspective after castro. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we must be firm in our commitment to human rights, firm in our commitment to a dialogue rich in new perspectives. it is up to castro and roque to show their courage and enter into dialogue. i was there in january, and i send you my warm greetings on behalf of the "damas de blanco" and they are very happy with the prize we have given them.
the resolution we are discussing tonight speaks for itself. it is a direct consequence of the 2003 discharge resolution by mr terry wynn. it is important that we have better control over eu funds. we all know that the court of auditors has not issued a positive das, a positive certificate of reliability, for the last 11 years. the commission is to be commended for having adopted almost entirely the recommendations of parliament. that's a good thing. it is a pity that the member states think differently and think much more negatively about it. that is why this evening is mainly a debate with the council. i have to tell you frankly that i am not very convinced by the answers, by mr winkler's remarks this evening. in fact, what we are calling for in this resolution is not so different from what is already happening in some cases. we are returning to the previous statement in which we wanted the highest political authority to sign it. we also accept lower-level statements in this resolution; if we look at the current practice of agricultural expenditure, there are already certification bodies which independently monitor the paying agencies and carry out independent audits. it is a mystery to me why the member states can accept it for agricultural expenditure but cannot accept it for other budgetary expenditure such as structural expenditure. the debate tonight is not without obligation. i assume that the council is also aware of the böge resolution on the financial perspective. we are not only asking for more money, after what the council has decided, we are also asking for better financial control and that better financial control is going in exactly the direction of the resolution which we hope to adopt tomorrow.
i would like to thank mr jacques toubon for his efforts and his approach, but i would also like to thank the commission and commissioner verheugen for the way in which the commission has put forward a proposal to improve regulation and deregulation in this case. it is therefore a little strange to us that parliament should now be making a lot of exceptions; we, and i come from a country, the netherlands, which rejected the constitutional treaty in a referendum, believe that europe should not interfere with the size of coffee, with the size of milk, because we have an internal market for that and we have mutual recognition of sizes and products. we are therefore also very unhappy with the additional exceptions or products which are now being included in order to be eligible for harmonisation. we shall therefore vote against them, and if they cannot be voted down and we cannot stick to the commission's proposal, then we as liberals will vote against the whole proposal, which we would actually regret, because in the end this could be an example; i hope, mr president, that we are not faced with this now and that i have to go back to my country to say, in the next referendum on a constitutional treaty, yes, indeed, we as a parliament are meddling with details, which you have to do in the street. the legislation, mr president, already clearly indicates to the consumer what a unit of measure costs per litre or per kilogram. the price already indicates that, so i think we should not underestimate the european citizen, we should not treat them as children or as inferior citizens. i think we have to have faith in the individual, that they can make their own choices, we have to give those choices. secondly, mr president, i would regret that when i visit countries in europe as a tourist or in other ways, i cannot enjoy the contemporary measures that prevail there, for example the pint in the united kingdom. i regret, mr president, that we have not opted for better regulation and deregulation as proposed by the commission. we therefore also regret the proposals for exceptions.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, we are right to be concerned about the european union’s communication problems and we are right, as the title of this white paper puts it, to be debating europe and to be involving people. the diagnosis is clear and the white paper is detailed in its prescriptions for dealing with the problem. i wish to thank the commissioner warmly for the efforts she has invested in taking us this far in addressing this crucial problem. we will be discussing many of the group proposals in detail later. i would like to use this opportunity to make some general remarks about communications in general. in communications less is more. the essence of good communication is to put a strong message in simple language. we need to explain to the people what we are doing and why it matters to them. once they know that their interests are affected by our decisions, they will take care of the public sphere themselves. the white paper seeks investment in mechanisms, procedures and new technology to facilitate the channels of communication. that is a good thing, but it does not address the quality of what is to be sent down those channels of communication. it talks about connecting the citizens and about public-sphere debating. that is acceptable to us. however, before people do any of this, they have to care. only then can they be empowered. we have to show them why they should care about what the european union is doing. the responsibility in dealing with those problems lies with us all – all the institutions – and not only with the press room downstairs. partnership is, therefore, also an important concept put forward in the white paper. as i said, it would be good to invest in new websites and our own tv channels, but we already have the world’s largest group of accredited correspondents on our doorstep: 1300 journalists who are hungry to report good-quality stories to audiences all over the world. if we produced timely and newsworthy stories for journalists, then the headlines, websites, new tv channels and public-sphere debates will follow. however, the reality is that most of our communication efforts are foundering because the eu fails on the basic issues. the eu offers one-size-fits-all news announcements instead of making more strenuous efforts to find new messages to capture the interest of specific media groups in our different countries and regions. quite rightly, the white paper places some emphasis on opinion polling and the need to understand european public opinion. but if it uses this resource correctly, why does the commission persist in coming forward with such deeply unpopular proposals like the port services directive that we dealt with a month ago? the white paper talks about the need to listen to the people, and rightly so. here was a case of the commission not even listening to its own parliament, never mind the people. on that point, it is not enough to say that europe needs to listen to the people: it also needs to act on what they say. what is the incentive for people to talk to us in brussels if they have no assurance that what they say will matter or change what we are thinking of doing? i welcome this white paper because it is kick-starting a much-needed debate. this house should welcome the commissioner’s important contribution. we in the european parliament must play our part in ensuring that the european union develops with the support of its citizens and that it serves their interests in the best possible way.
in the past, we could have regulated the protection of road safety and road transport workers differently from one member state to another. the struggle of interest groups for an ever-increasing improvement of this protection was directed at the national legislators. today there is much more international freight traffic over distances of hundreds and sometimes thousands of kilometres. this makes the differences between national regulations a detrimental factor in the competition. companies that have their employees work long hours in a row seem to have a strong advantage. they often fail to take into account that this advantage is nullified by accidents in which lives, vehicles and cargo are damaged or lost altogether. centralization of decision-making is often not in the interests of organisations seeking to protect labour, the environment and safety. it is particularly strengthening the position of those who, against public opinion, want to emphasize business interests, entrepreneurial freedom and endless economic growth. we see this in the case of driving times and rest periods. workers may be forced to work more hours than just driving hours. the commission has also proposed that the minimum working time for the express services be reduced from 12 hours to 11 hours. the monitoring of compliance remains limited. a better arrangement would have been possible by now. it will have to be brought back on the agenda in the near future. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. in the short term, this compromise will be a small improvement, especially since it will also apply to lorries from countries outside the european union and also thanks to the better controllable digital tachograph. that is a reason to be positive, despite serious objections.
mr. president, we have come a long way. my colleague anne jensen has said all that is necessary on this subject. the aim was to update, clarify and, above all, simplify the existing rules on driving and rest periods. all this is in the interests of fair competition between road hauliers, road safety and the social interests of road hauliers. however, earlier texts seemed to have missed this goal entirely. it was not sufficiently recognised that the crux of the matter was not so much the rules on driving and rest times but rather the enforcement of those rules and the different interpretations of them. i have no doubt that the commission will be able to do so. his commitment and involvement was great and i want to thank him for this. the fact that the agreement we are voting on today is considered to be somewhat acceptable by the liberals too is, and i am not often asked to say this, largely due to the council's perseverance in the negotiations. so i am clearly not in agreement with mr piecyk. the usefulness and necessity of some of the provisions of the present agreement may still be called into question. the possibility of splitting up the daily rest period - 3 plus 9 - is extremely limited in my view, and the weekly rest period of 45 hours every two weeks certainly does not contribute to the much needed flexibility in road transport. i am not sure that such rigid provisions would in any way contribute to road safety or better working conditions. the present agreement is therefore not perfect, but acceptable. at least the sector now knows what it's up against. the daily rest period has, thank god, been limited to 11 hours. the direct link to the working time control has been removed. the shortened weekly rest period can be spent in the vehicle and then, finally, there is clarity on the date of entry of the digital tachograph. in short, not perfect but acceptable. i shall therefore vote in favour of the motion.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of workers from harmful substances are respected. in the course of these 20 years, the legislation has acquired a unique position as the basis for the transport patterns of companies. therefore, where possible, adverse effects of changes should be limited. during the negotiations, a successful outcome has been uncertain for a long time. i think the current agreement is defensible. the main points of advantage for me are, on the one hand, that a number of elements have not been changed. i am referring in particular to the 11 hours of daily rest and the disregard of directive 2002/15/ec. on the other hand, the final date of introduction of the digital tachograph is also a profit. this will remove much uncertainty about the use of this instrument and hopefully allow more efficient monitoring. the strengthening of the control rules will contribute to the better functioning of this regulation. the same interpretation and application of the rules in each country is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. all in all, a tighter regime will be established. this by definition means that flexibility in implementation is reduced. i am convinced, however, that the agreements now in force will contribute positively to a healthy and stable sector. this is in the interests of all concerned. finally, mr president, i would like to thank all those involved, and in particular the rapporteur, for their commitment and perseverance.
the agreement on driving and rest periods agreed by the council and parliament last december is acceptable to us, mr president, even if it does not deserve a beauty award. the result of the conciliation was initially unacceptable to the rapporteur, but from my point of view it was an improvement on the result of the vote in the european parliament's plenary. a workable break system - 11 hours instead of 12 - and a driver who can decide where he wants to sleep instead of the european parliament dictating it. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). it is really too detailed here and there and, above all, the possibilities for multi-day bus transport are too limited. i would like to ask commissioner barrot what he thinks of this point, because it is going to create real practical problems. finally, there is certainty about the date of introduction of the digital tachograph, and i welcome the very active attitude that commissioner barrot is again exhibiting here. no pardon after may 2006, as you said. commissioner, we will stick to that, because we cannot allow those who have successfully introduced the new digital tachograph to be subjected to more stringent controls than truck combinations which do not have the digital tachograph. so i do hope you're actually going to perform.
i have no idea what article, mr president, but i find it unacceptable that i am not able to listen to the commissioner at the end of a debate. i barely understood the conclusions. the president has been asked to do something about this before. i would ask the president again to allow a normal debate to take place with a normal conclusion before the votes begin.
mr president, quite simply, in the second sentence we propose that ‘strategy’ be replaced by ‘policies’.
in writing. there are serious shortcomings in cuba with regard to fundamental freedoms. the oral question and the resolution, which are both adequate, clearly show that. there is one matter i would like to raise prominently: the position of the house churches. new legislation, contained in directive 43 and resolution 46, requires all operating home communities to register with the authorities. registration applications often lead to extremely complicated negotiations with the public authorities. for example, detailed information about the parishioners and the pastors should be passed on. this new legislation has already led to the closure of several house churches. in 1992, the cuban government amended the constitution. the country's self-characterization changed from an atheist to a secular state. that was a first step in the right direction. the new legislation seems to reflect a trend towards new restrictions. while the cuban constitution recognizes the right of citizens to freedom of religion, de facto restrictions are increasingly in force. why are christian churches, including those that are registered, so closely watched, controlled and even infiltrated? so there is no real freedom of religion in cuba. i would also ask the council and the commission to address this issue in their discussions with the cuban authorities.
i hope that this week the european parliament will take a major new step towards a sustainable european agriculture. the european union will have to respect the five freedoms of the animal and enshrine them in laws. they are freedom from thirst, hunger and malnutrition, freedom from lack of adequate comfort, freedom from pain, injury and disease, freedom to display normal behavior and freedom from fear and stress. this directive meets those freedoms and it is high time. first of all, it is the european consumer and citizen who demands respect for animals and who is also willing to pay a reasonable price for it in an increasing number of countries. it is a good thing that the commission launched the animal welfare action plan three weeks ago. this type of agreement and rules must be european, otherwise member states will compete with each other at the expense of animal welfare. the animal welfare concerns of european consumers are currently focused on the welfare of broilers. this was due to reports of overcrowding in the stables and breeding methods that were aimed at increasing growth rates but not yet at strong bone structure and strengthening of the heart and lungs. too many animals suffer from injuries to legs and chest from poor litter. the committee on agriculture has sent a clear signal to the commission and the council with my report and the amendments to it, in favour of animal welfare, quality requirements, but also a certain flexibility towards the poultry farmer. i also wanted to set out in my report two principles which were not yet included in the directive. firstly, genetic selection, the breeding of animals for certain characteristics, must never result in a reduction or a threat to the potential welfare of an animal species. this principle should be a cornerstone of any animal welfare directive. secondly, socioeconomic considerations must not take precedence over animal welfare. it is logical to make demands on the quality of the housing on the basis of this principle. these are requirements which the good poultry farmers have long met, because they reduce mortality rates and therefore increase yields. animal welfare is in the economic interest of the poultry farmer. mr kyprianou has already mentioned this. the directive also provides for professional and daily checks on health and welfare, which is an important form of prevention of animal diseases, especially today. nevertheless, poultry need more space than is often given. the maximum quantity of poultry per square metre in the few days just before departure for the slaughterhouse should be reduced to 38 kilograms per square metre and to 34 kilograms in 2013, in accordance with the amendment which i tabled with my colleague elizabeth jeggle. many eu member states are already below or around that threshold. amendments which seek to impose an even lower density are not supported. while experts say that animal welfare risks are greater above a density of 30 kilograms per square meter, that is by no means an absolute limit beyond which disasters would occur. above 30 kilos per square foot, it all depends on good management, and that's exactly what this house can count on. that is why the rules must also be flexible with regard to farmers. quality requirements include penalties, but these must be proportionate and encourage better management. there is no point in punishing harder or longer than is strictly necessary. opponents of this directive say that global competition makes this kind of animal welfare standards impossible, because it would impose stricter requirements within europe than outside. that's actually incorrect. the biggest poultry rival, brazil, already complies with this directive. even if europe were to stop poor animal welfare at the border, brazilian meat can still enter without any effort. the european sector will therefore have to focus either on cost savings and thus scale up, or on producing high quality fresh meat close to the european consumer. this is already happening and is being encouraged by this directive. that does not mean that the commission must raise animal welfare issues within the world trade organisation and more vigorously than it does now. i have asked the commission about this. what possibilities does the gatt convention offer for animal welfare? article 20 of the directive states that restrictions on imports are permissible on grounds of public health, animal and plant health and moral grounds. we must continue along this path. europe needs concrete results to restore the confidence of its citizens in the eu. sustainable development is one of the areas where the eu can deliver, animal welfare is part of that and that is why this directive needs to be put in place quickly. (applause from the left)
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr berman, for his report. it is his first report and, with apologies to the interpreters, i do not think he has got away with it with a jantje van leiden. i have to say that i do not know anyone in this house who is against animal welfare, everyone is for it. i have my doubts about this proposal, because i do not think it is a perfect proposal yet. firstly, it sets the same standards throughout the european union and i would imagine that in a cold climate like finland or in a very different climate like italy very different standards would have to apply as regards the number of animals in a given area. the practice could be that it's different now. the commission does not take this into account in any way and, as the previous speaker has said, we have not yet seen an economic analysis. it is very easy to say that socioeconomic priorities should never take precedence over animal welfare. okay, but there are always people who have to live off this, and what exactly are the consequences? does the commission have any idea of that? the most important point is, of course, the following. it has been mentioned by many others, including the commissioner himself, but i am not entirely convinced by his answer. it is not very useful, if we want to emphasize the so-called non-trade aspects, to draw up a new proposal in the middle of discussions in the world trade organization without being sure that the importers are also complying with it. why does the commission not start talking to the supermarkets and other major importers about a code of conduct as soon as possible? where is the logic in telling european producers that they must meet such and such standards, while supermarkets are allowed to import all kinds of goods from the rest of the world without any control by the commission? we only check for salmonella, or whatever, but we never check for animal welfare. that is what the commission should be doing and that is completely lacking in this proposal.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would, however, like to advocate that the interests of the chickens should be given a little more prominence when it comes to the density of the workforce. i would therefore ask all members of the european parliament, when they go down the elevator tomorrow before the vote and stand stiffly and awkwardly pressed against their colleagues, to imagine that there are ten more people crammed in there and to think that they have this feeling for one minute, but that an industrial chicken has to endure this miserable life. i would ask you to take that picture with you when you press the button tomorrow. tomorrow we have the opportunity to take an important step towards a more animal-friendly europe. let us seize this opportunity, for the sake of animal welfare, but also for our own humanity.
i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the thoroughness with which he has carried out his work. let me be clear, the cda is in favour of animal welfare and considers this an important point. we also welcome the new action programme of our commissioner. this does not mean that, although it is clear that the european citizen does not have a high opinion of animal welfare in europe - you wonder how he comes to that opinion, since europe does have the strictest standards in the world - it is nevertheless clear that as a consumer he often behaves very differently. that's the problem. that means that we can introduce stricter standards in europe, but at the same time we can open the tap if we do nothing about imports. you can say that we do not make that mistake in the world trade organization and that europe is trying, but there must be more to it. we can make arrangements with regard to imports, the quantities imported. we can also make arrangements regarding labelling. we can also agree that in europe we will at least work for those who have special projects, such as the people behind the farm chicken in the netherlands and the "label rouge" in france. it should be possible to support them with additional incentives so that consumers also buy these products. that is better for the cda, because otherwise we would again have european legislation, which the consumer as a citizen might applaud, but at the moment when he is in the supermarket he shows a different buying behaviour. it is essential that what the citizen wants is also translated into consumer behaviour. that is why we are very critical of this report. we will vote for amendment no 42, which at least does something about imports, and we will also support everything in this report that relates to better identification by labelling of meat. but as long as there is no guarantee that we can impose the same requirements on imports, as long as we are thus putting the european farmer back at a disadvantage and making it more difficult for animal welfare in europe again, it will be very difficult for us to vote in favour of this report.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of aid to the steel industry, which is a very important one. state aid should be a last resort and it is not a panacea. it is sometimes presented in this way, but state aid also has negative side effects. we cannot give generous state aid if all the preconditions and our other policies are not in order. that's like moping with the faucet open. we must ensure, for example, that the internal market is perfected and that it functions properly, and in that respect i hope that this parliament will make a wise choice on thursday on the services directive. we must fight protectionism, we must encourage fair competition, we must abolish bureaucracy and overregulation, we must ensure better access to risk capital and also create a single market for financial services, but at the same time we must ensure things like genuine free movement of workers from all eu member states and an immigration policy that aims to bring the best and brightest, our best, into europe instead of driving them away to the united states. only when we have all these things in order can we start to see if we can possibly, where the market is inefficient, because it is not about market failure, but about market inefficiencies, jump in with state aid. state aid is not allowed in principle, let us repeat that again. state aid distorts the market and distorts competition. mr savary has just said that the eu tends to be too liberal at times, but i would point out to mr savary that we spend billions of dollars every year on state aid. even the most conservative estimates put the figure at about half the european union budget, so i do not think that is very liberal. i'm not so sure about that. i agree with what mr savary has just said: we must give state support to the priorities of the 21st century: the lisbon objectives, innovation, knowledge, sustainability and so on. i think that we should therefore give much less state aid to old and dying industries and as far as state aid for environmental objectives is concerned, i think we should first look at the elimination of the billions of state aid we give to whole polluting industries and sectors which use non-renewable energy sources and i will therefore recommend my group to support the amendments of mr lipietz which go in that direction. the global context is also important in the debate. of course we cannot deny that in other parts of the world there is still generous state aid, we must recognize that, but our objective must remain the reduction of state aid. finally, a word about public services. i would like to say again, as i am beginning to feel like a crier in the desert, that the terms services of general interest and services of general economic interest are still not defined and that it is therefore very strange to legislate on them. but good. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. it has just been pointed out by mr savary. i would like to conclude, mr president, by asking the commission to present as soon as possible an evaluation of the impact of the rules adopted by the commission last year on state aid in compensation for public services. i would like to know how much state aid is involved, how many companies and what the impact on the market has been.
i would like to join those who congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on the results achieved. i think it is also a compliment to the committee on economic and monetary affairs that we are succeeding in achieving good results with a very liberal swedish approach and at the same time a socialist french approach. unlike my dutch colleague, mrs in 't veld, i would not like to stress less state aid. i think this more or less is not the most important dimension. the question is what the purpose of the state aid is and how it is used. state aid should not be seen merely as a deviation from the ideal of market functioning, but as an instrument for social, economic and societal goals. it is good that this commissioner for competition also sees her portfolio in such a wider economic context, namely the lisbon strategy, and that lisbon strategy is indeed not only about economic but also about broader socioeconomic effects. so i would like to emphasize that from my group, particularly in the socioeconomic context and in the additional perspective of employment and social cohesion. i would like to mention two points in this connection and ask that we do not adopt a too dogmatic approach to these points. firstly, the fall in the market. it is also a matter of looking at broader aspects and taking full account of employment and social cohesion. the other point is the temporary nature of the state aid. i would also like to ask that we do not be too dogmatic about this, because in some sectors it may be necessary to work with government subsidies and instruments for a longer period. i'll mention the public broadcaster, for example. the importance of press pluralism and a well-balanced information supply may require that public money be invested in such a sector in the longer term. public housing is another example. there may also be cases where the interests of urban planning, minority integration and social integration in a city require that you provide certain players in the market with public support in order to achieve those broader objectives. the last point concerns the european and the national dimensions. i would like to point out, as mr hökmark has done in the report, that state aid is still sometimes used to create political competition between member states and i would ask the commission to take care of this, to monitor it more closely from the commission's side and also to look at the matter of sanctions, to see whether the member states themselves should not be targeted on this point and not just the companies to which the aid is going.
i am very pleased with the report drawn up by mr hökmark on the reform of european state aid and i would like to thank him warmly for it and to join him in the broad support he has received here in parliament. i can wholeheartedly support the commission's guiding principle of less state aid but more targeted aid. this is also true of the new policy priorities, in particular innovation and research. i look forward to the commission's specific proposals on this matter and we in the committee on economic and monetary affairs will also be following the commission closely over the coming months and we will be happy to discuss it with it, because i hope that the commission will present more detailed guidelines on the definition of state aid, in order to guarantee greater legal certainty, but also to prevent abuse, because innovation must also be real innovation and not a license for certain member states to continue on their old ways. i am also glad, mr president, that the majority in parliament wants to go further than the commissioner, by doubling the minimum threshold for reporting state aid to brussels. this will avoid a lot of red tape and administrative burden, which will benefit smes in particular. commissioner, are you prepared to accept this proposal from parliament? we have known your determination in the netherlands for a long time, commissioner, and i would like to thank you for the determination with which you are reforming state aid and i would like to say to you: keep it up, because there's a lot of work to be done.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. president, commissioner piebalgs, we know that heating and cooling account for almost half of the energy consumed in the european union, and yet nothing has been done to make energy use more efficient. this directive is the final piece of the european energy policy. the report by mrs rothe, which is an initiative of parliament, is therefore timely. the ppe-de group in the european parliament is calling for a doubling of the current share of renewable energy sources in energy consumption for heating and cooling by 2020. this energy can often be generated on site, and the techniques have been greatly improved. this applies to solar, wind, water, biomass and geothermal energy. europe is leading the way in technological knowledge, but we are lagging behind in implementation. europe must be a leader in product innovation and commercialisation. if this development in the sector continues, many jobs will also be created. take a german example: between 1998 and 2002, this has doubled employment in the energy sector to around 125 000 jobs. in order to implement this policy, member states should propose achievable national targets and ensure an energy mix within the limits of their own capabilities. the ppe group is against over-regulation, against binding targets at the moment. the commission's proposal is ambitious, yes, but above all realistic, and that is why we have chosen to formulate effective national objectives and achievable targets. finally, i would like to ask commissioner piebalgs to make better use of the possibilities for financial support from the structural funds in the period 2007-13. the guidelines provide for possibilities, but it is up to the member states to decide whether they use them. we must also ensure that this priority is given to this policy of incentives, with the existing resources of the union and the member states. i'd like to give you this heartfelt cry.
i would like to make an explanation of vote to explain why we, the cda group, voted against the report. the reason for our vote against is that we are in favour of animal welfare, especially in the poultry sector, but we cannot be in favour of not having the same requirements for imports. a second reason is that this report leads to more bureaucracy, which we do not want in europe. we want less bureaucracy, also because the consequences of the introduction of this directive are only considered afterwards and not in advance. that seems to us to be cheap policy on the backs of european poultry farmers. we don't want that. we want better welfare, but with a fair distribution of the burden between consumers and producers. i would like to ask my colleague mr mcguinness to speak again on the same point.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. mr president, there are at least 30 000 demonstrators outside this house at the moment and i have just come from there myself. these people have come here to protest against the services directive and this is the latest example of europeans saying they have no need for this liberalisation proposal. i am aware that many of the members present will probably support the directive, but it is not the first time that this parliament has shown itself to be absolutely incapable of representing the european citizen. i refer in this connection, for example, to the failure of the european constitution voted down. there has been a lot of talk about the famous compromise between the two largest political groups. it is typical that such an important subject is so much debated in back rooms. that's unworthy of a democracy. it is also a cowardly compromise, because instead of a clear political decision being taken, everything is now being referred to the courts. the original proposal by mr bolkestein was unacceptable to me on all fronts, but at least it was clear. with this compromise parliament is only showing its political impotence and workers, consumers and the environment will soon be victims of this impotence. how different was it in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, where a large majority had the political courage to say no to the original proposal, to the country of origin principle and to the undermining of public services and social systems. it is a pity that the members of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection have shown less common sense in their voting behaviour. i really wish the members of the european parliament much more wisdom on thursday.
the president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. not only after following this debate, but also after the work of the last weeks and months, i am of your opinion and charlie mccreevy's opinion that we now have a better directive before us, which i hope will meet with a very large majority at the first reading. i am pleased to speak, by chance or thanks to the wisdom of the president, as a compatriot of my two predecessors, mr karas and mr swoboda, not only because they are compatriots, but because they have both been heavily involved in this compromise in recent weeks. i would like to thank both of them, after having already thanked mrs gebhardt, and of course malcolm harbour, on behalf of many others. i am sure that you, mr harbour, will be able to wear the presidential tie in the coming weeks and months, because this directive will continue to be a good directive and will pave the way for greater freedom to provide services. it is and has been one of the most controversial dossiers - perhaps the most controversial dossier the european parliament has dealt with, certainly one of the most extensive, if i consider the number of amendments. the european parliament had also done an excellent job with reach of a similar scale and had really paved the way for a sensible chemicals directive. the european parliament can be proud of that. it is important that a large majority be achieved the day after tomorrow, not only for reasons of principle but because we all know that there is, for example, a letter from six member states to the commission, that there are still questions open in the commission and that, of course, a large majority in parliament will send a signal to the commission and the council that this opinion of parliament must be followed. in my view, and in the view of the presidency, the compromise text as it stands fulfils a high standard, namely, on the one hand, to provide a clear added value in terms of the internal market for services and freedom to provide services, and on the other hand, to say clearly no to any risk of social and wage dumping. i personally believe that social security in europe is not something that hinders competition and strengthening europe, but is a prerequisite for making europe even more competitive. it is also a directive of great symbolic value. because if mrs thyssen said that this directive has also been the symbol in recent weeks and months of a gap between europe and its institutions on the one hand and the citizens on the other - which is unfortunate, but unfortunately the trend has been such - it is also a symbol of the question of whether this europe is able to take us forward towards more growth and employment. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the services directive is one of them. so it's an important symbol in many ways, and we're on the right track. in the last few months, i have had the impression that all stakeholders, including the social partners, and i refer to the secretary-general of the european trade union confederation, have said that this is a good compromise to follow. some also said that today was a demonstration for a better directive, that all the responsible stakeholders want this services directive to succeed, because we need it. if we want to give life to the lisbon strategy, if we want to send a signal to people that we are working for growth and jobs, then we need this directive on services. our presidency will continue to work hard in the weeks ahead. we will take parliament's views and position, we will discuss them at the level of the social partners on 9 march, at the competition council on 13 march and at the european council on 23 and 24 march. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. i promise you, and i also promise the european parliament, that we will take this position of the european parliament very seriously and we will be guided by it to a great extent. (applause from the centre)
i am very sorry, mr president, that the presidency cannot stay until the end, because priorities must be set, but i am very sorry that people from the smaller groups in particular are speaking tonight without the presidency being present. i regret that, and that is in fact the answer to all the comments that have already been made, so that is in advance. i also find it regrettable that the smaller groups in particular are not involved in the negotiations. i don't think it's the best course of action not to be invited. now it is the ppe-de group and the pse group that have reached a compromise. i find that very regrettable. if this is the new way of doing politics, mr president, i think we are on the wrong track and that democratic europe is going further and further backwards. those are two heartfelt cries i'd like to make. the aim of this directive is to make a strong european economy, mr president, not to be able to compete with each other, but to be able to compete with the rest of the world. the aim is to strike a balance between consumer and employer interests and to position our economy well in relation to the rest of the world. i hope, mr president, that we can reach an acceptable compromise between now and thursday morning. if we fail to do so, mr president, i fear we will make the same mistake as the egyptians at the height of their civilization. the fact is that they were only concerned with protecting their gains and not with preserving their future prosperity, and we have seen what has happened to egyptian culture, mr president. so for that reason ... (the president interrupted the speaker)
i am in favour of the limitation of the directive, as agreed by the two major political groups. this is in line with the environmental and labour standards in force in the member states. it is important that the directive contributes to reducing the administrative burden for service providers operating in other member states. it seems that the country of origin principle will disappear. i can agree with that. i would like to ask the council and the commission whether they can guarantee that the member states can subject services to medical ethical requirements. another problematic subject which should be left out of the directive is drinking water. the same applies to social care and services. the recipients of these services are often not in a position to choose a provider. this may compromise the care of people with disabilities. the directive does not deal with the working conditions of temporary agency workers, as they are regulated in the temporary agency directive. there is therefore no reason to exclude the temporary employment sector from the scope of the directive. the directive must be put into practice. the quality of enforcement will be decisive. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the prosperity and well-being of the citizens of the european union are based on the well-known freedoms: the free movement of goods, persons, capital and services. the promotion of the free movement of services is also part of the lisbon process: it is necessary to achieve growth and jobs. the proposal we had on the table was a quick-fire one, which, while it may have a lethal effect, can also have positive effects. it seemed to be a positive development for the new member states, but i tell you that the social unrest it would create would be a blow to us and that the directive would not only lead to social unrest but also to the loss of jobs. mr president, there are still a number of problems. i call the detachment. what will the commission do in practice? we must prevent the detachment from taking place because of administrative obstacles, and i come from the border region, difficult or not at all. we must do everything possible, mr president, to ensure that the issue of temporary agency work is also dealt with smoothly in the council. if everything is going to work properly in the employment sector, i will be very much in favour of this sector also being covered by the services directive. but since that is still not the case, it is now necessary to withdraw this secondment directive quickly. mr president, everything is up or down with the audit that will be carried out: the secondary sector, the selfemployed and the unemployed. as far as the control of secondment is concerned, we are now looking only at social security and taxes, but we could also require that the minimum wage be filled in on the forms used. that, mr president, is the process of the services directive and i welcome the compromises that have been reached.
mr president, first of all, let me say this: it is not about east versus west, because i am also from the west and i am a big supporter of the services directive. let us not lose sight of the aim of the directive, which is to remove unnecessary obstacles to small and mediumsized enterprises offering their services in other countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the protection of valuable social assets, yes, of course, but not protectionism, nationalism and certainly not xenophobia. in the global economy, we must strengthen the european market, not fragment and weaken it. the service market offers many great opportunities. it is in the service sector that innovative and quality jobs can be created. there is a high degree of hypocrisy in the debate, because the old member states, the west, fear competition from the east, but they forget to mention that western companies have been doing business freely and with great profit in eastern europe for 15 years. the directive must be adopted with the widest possible scope, i.e. services of general interest or services of general economic interest, and we should perhaps also clarify what this means, which are already being offered on the market, should simply be covered, as well as health care, employment agencies and gambling. the principle of the country of origin, even if we call it by another name, must simply be preserved. i shall vote for this directive only if it leads to greater freedom of movement for services. if we are going to adopt a compromise which actually seals the markets even more, i will not be voting for it.
the compromise which is now before us, mr president, is in keeping with the best dutch tradition of linking open markets with a reasonable level of social protection and can therefore be fully supported by my delegation. our minister for economic affairs has recently expressed his concern about the number of exceptions in the directive. i can't share that concern. i would like to explain why i think some of these exceptions are very important. firstly, the exception for health care and other sectors where there are too many compelling reasons of public interest. these are sectors which i think could be much better regulated by sector, and in addition to this there is a need for a horizontal framework directive on services of general interest which will clearly define the possibilities for non-central authorities to impose regulations on such sectors for reasons of general interest. another sector i would like to talk about for a moment is that of temporary agency work. as you know, mr president, we also reached a wonderful compromise on this subject here in this house four years ago, which was widely supported in this parliament but which has been frozen in the council for some time. the directive we drew up at the time, which struck a balance between protection and opening up of markets, was also a much better basis for imposing more precise and careful european regulation on the sector in question, and i would therefore ask mr mccreevy to honour his commitment on those various points, health care, temporary agency work, and to draw up other regulations to that end rather than this directive.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the founding father of this republic, ayatollah khomeini, rejected nuclear energy on principle as an 'un-islamic technology'. today, however, president ahmadi-nejad considers nuclear energy a blessing from allah! it's a shiite sect. at the same time, my confusion about tehran's nuclear intentions continues. on the one hand, it is very reassuring to hear from the revolutionary leader khamenei that the use of weapons of mass destruction is prohibited in islam. the iranian authorities also claim to be concerned only with the peaceful use of nuclear energy. on the other hand, the whole persian nuclear programme clearly indicates that the country wants to have a nuclear weapon option in secret. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the united states, which have been in the process of negotiating with the united states. what next, council and commission? at least don't let the mullahs fool you anymore! in short, keep all options open against a terrorist regime which has so far been playing on the clock and wants to drive a wedge between the european union and the united states and israel respectively. meanwhile, the iranian nuclear clock is ticking dangerously fast. get the russians and the chinese to work together to really shut them up. i am waiting for such european diplomatic action!
in writing. the people of iran have no prospect of democracy, human rights or guarantees for minorities as we know them in europe. the state is run by a group of people who are absolutely convinced that god is on their side. they think they have the right to decide how their people should live. many people have left the country and among those who remain, many women and young people especially are longing for change. that is why it is shortsighted to see iran as just a closed bloc that threatens the outside world. even more than in iraq and afghanistan, a military invasion, as the american president seems to be considering, is not the solution. the threat of nuclear bombs, as publicly contemplated by the french president, is even more dangerous. both threats can only lead the people of iran to seek protection from the oppressive regime, which then becomes the least of their evils. that completely destroys the prospect of real change, of human rights and democracy. europe does better to provide space for the legal functioning of the various organizations of iranians in exile, which provide support for the pursuit of domestic change.
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, on behalf of the gue/ngl group. a state union of different peoples, each of which constitutes a minority. the bosnians in the centre and north-west, the serbs in the north and east and the croats in the south-west all need a governance model that protects their own identity. the serbs and croats, who together make up the majority of the population, also need open borders with neighbouring serbia and croatia, with which they have traditionally felt a close connection. a federal structure like that in belgium and switzerland is probably the best solution for lasting peace and reconciliation between the three peoples. my group therefore advocates solutions from below, where the outside world does not try to know better, but helps with reconstruction, reconciliation and the transfer of knowledge of good governance practices. the words of mr winkler and mr rehn give me confidence that this view will be taken into account. the resolution we are proposing, however, seems to us to place too much emphasis on a different approach, which is even more in line with the view, unfortunately very widespread in europe, that since the 1992-95 war bosnia-herzegovina has remained a violent and intolerant chaos, which must be resolved from outside by military means and administrative intervention until a strong leader emerges. that's not the answer. we fear that in a possible unitary state there would be a constant struggle for power over which ethnic group takes the lead and which occupies a subordinate position. in the past, successive muslims, catholic croats and orthodox serbs have dominated the others. strong state leadership leads to undesirable ethnic politics and discrimination. that is why my group is voting for the compromise resolution on the basis of the adoption of our two amendments, in which we express our support for the right of the peoples concerned to decide for themselves and against continuing military intervention from outside.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, on 16 december last year the non-democratically elected parliament in minsk agreed to lukashenko's proposal to postpone the presidential elections to 19 march. this illustrates the utterly arbitrary way in which mr lukashenko operates. the decision also makes clear that president lukashenko has no intention of relinquishing control over the electoral process. we must therefore fear, for the umpteenth time, that the democratic process in belarus will be conducted in a very fraudulent manner. the opposition is the main victim of the decision. how can she campaign when her candidates end up in prison, like the social democrat statkevich, and all the mass media are controlled by the regime? the authorities are doing everything they can to make it as difficult as possible for the opposition, and this is another way of cutting the campaign period by more than half. we must continue to call attention to these flagrant violations of our democratic values in this neighbour of the european union. we must stress once again that the policy of lukashenko is unacceptable. but we must also reiterate that if there is a change of course, the way to closer relations with the eu is open. what more can we do? it is regrettable that the relationship between lukashenko and the european parliament has deteriorated to the point that we have not been invited to participate in the observer mission, whereas the osce has been invited to do so. on the one hand, this is a good sign, because it is the result of our consistent critical attitude towards the regime in belarus, but on the other hand, one has to ask why the european parliament cannot simply take part in the osce mission as the official representative of the european union. we are pleased to have been invited to the osce, but we also want to stress that more is needed than mere lip service to the international standards to which belarus has also committed itself as a member of the osce. we therefore hope that the osce mission can carry out its work with some degree of normality and call on the belarusian government to give it full cooperation. finally, despite the deteriorating circumstances - i myself was involved in the observation four years ago and i think the situation is much worse now than it was then - we must do everything possible and above all do everything to support the opposition, which has managed to put forward a candidate unitedly this time. i hope that today's decision will at least put the opposition and the candidate, aleksander milinkevich, in a better mood.
madam president, let me give you the score. it is ep united 1, racism 0. more than half of our members have signed written declaration 69 on combating racism in football. i thank all members who have signed. this is a historic moment.
i refer to rule 66. i would like to know what the result of the vote on amendment no 233 was, because from what i have heard you have drawn the wrong conclusion.
president. - i have a point of order. we voted on amendment no 233 and it was adopted, so that private health care falls within the scope of the directive and public health care is excluded. now we're voting again on public health care and i don't think we can do this. there is something wrong with the relationship between the amendments. i think there is a mistake in the composition of the voting lists and the order of amendments.
in writing. article 16 (1) (b) and (c) requires that national legislation be subject to a necessity test and a proportionality test. that seems to me an unacceptable violation of national sovereignty. if my interpretation of the text is correct, this creates legal uncertainty and paralyses governments. of course, it is good if environmental legislation is proportionate, for example - but this is always a political assessment. it is not desirable for the eu and the european court to look over the shoulder of national politics. apart from paragraphs 1 (b) and 1 (c), i wholeheartedly support the compromise.
in writing. the directive as adopted by parliament now obliges the member states to eliminate all kinds of obstacles which still hinder the free movement of services. this is a step forward, especially for smes. that is why i voted for the compromise. the renaming of the principle of the country of origin does not remove it from the treaty, unless we deny the existence of the internal market. i am confident that the commission and the council will come up with a better proposal in response. i would have preferred to liberalize the services market even further and am therefore disappointed by the position of the socialists and the christian democrats: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. both the socialists and the christian democrats have sold their souls to please the unions at the expense of the consumers! we are putting the welfare of our children at risk by protecting them.
in writing. the former commissioner bolkestein's commitment was that good laws and good collective agreements, as they exist in some eu member states, should be in permanent competition with the bad arrangements in other member states. existing differences are turned into a competitive factor, with the intention that the worst always wins. this extremely neoliberal measure would destroy all the gains the workers' movement has made in a century of struggle. the directive will not be adopted in this form, thanks to the massive action of the trade union movement and other organisations. instead, there is now an unclear compromise between the major groups in parliament. the fact that this parliament is not making clear choices will leave much to the interpretation of the court of justice. it may still choose the highly controversial principle of country of origin. we, the representatives of the socialist party in the netherlands, are not involved in this compromise. we reject it completely, but until the directive is completely repealed we support all the amendments which the trade union movement considers to be an improvement. in the meantime, the fight we are waging with the trade union movement against all attempts by employers to hire people at a lower wage continues.
in writing. the nuance that has been considered has led me to not put my signature in the end. i think the wording of some of the constituent paragraphs is completely inappropriate. once again, the impression is being created that freedom of expression and of the press can be negotiated. i cannot and do not want to agree with this strategy. i believe that freedom of expression is an absolute right. voltaire said it best: "i despise you and your opinion, but i will give my life for your right to express that despicable opinion". in the european liberal society, freedom of religion goes hand in hand with freedom to criticize a religion, and certainly its offshoots. this must be made clear in crystal clear terms to the protesting muslim world. for he that fleeth from the wolf shall surely be cast into the den of the bear. the schizophrenic and extremely cautious attitude of the union and its member states is to give in to the views of radical muslims with a fundamentalist interpretation of the koran. never should threats and fear lead to a sell-out of our freedoms. history teaches us that problems arise not so much from an excess of freedoms as from a restriction of those freedoms.
in writing. in bosnia and herzegovina, people have experience with different types of government. the turkish era was in favour of the muslim population in the centre and north-west, who consider themselves the real bosniaks. the austrian era was in favor of the roman catholics in the southwest, who call themselves croats. the yugoslav era was in favour of the orthodox in the north and east, who see themselves as serbs. bosnia was erased as an administrative unit in the 1920s, and re-established after the second world war as a mixed area, a small yugoslavia in the centre of the federal state that should contribute to the fusion of the different peoples within yugoslavia. this is a complete failure. in the 1992-95 war, each of these groups wanted to unilaterally push through its own wishes. dayton was the miracle cure for peace and reconciliation. it is an inefficient and costly structure, but it is the result of the need to reconcile widely differing wishes. that is why we must not simply throw away the flawed dayton structure, but use it to build a federal structure in which all can live together in peace for a long time. the people must be able to make their own choices, rather than being forced by europe.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur and the other groups for their good cooperation in committee. i hope that the decision to postpone the vote on this report will provide an opportunity to assess which of the amendments tabled improve the report and which have the opposite effect. perhaps we can find some compromises in the meantime. i also agree that this is the right moment for parliament to have this debate and that this is the right moment for this report, given that a strategic review of the imf is taking place and the economic and financial committee has produced a paper that will be discussed in the ecofin council. for us, too, the role of the imf in strengthening the stability and solidity of the international financial system is a core issue. however, we should also like to see more focus and attention on social and public policy aspects, and that is why my group retabled some previous amendments. on the constituencies issue and the single seat, both of you have already touched upon how we could strengthen the european voice vis-à-vis other parts of the world. the rapporteur is aware of my own observations on this debate concerning the situation in the netherlands, in particular, and belgium, which are in a broader constituency and subject to effects of this kind, but i believe that we could try to find a good formulation on strengthening the european voice and on strengthening the voice of the less-developed countries in the structure in particular. the other amendment we would draw attention to is that concerning transparency and dialogue with ngos. here, the imf could learn from many other international institutions, including our own european investment bank, on how to improve dialogue with, and consultation of, ngos in their work. it might be important to stress this, as well as the issue of the accountability of eu representatives in the imf. we see a role for the european parliament in that as a follow-up to this debate, and we hope that we can agree on finding methods and structures, such as the ad hoc working party proposed in our amendments, to create a follow-up on this.
the european union has a duty to help the people of the caucasus, and to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of georgia, to help the people of armenia, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of georgia, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of georgia, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of georgia, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of georgia, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of georgia, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of georgia, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of georgia, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of georgia, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of georgia, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of georgia, to help the people of georgia, to help the people of azerbaijan, to help the people of georgia. the people there did not live in peace with one another, but were subject to undemocratic russian state authority. it was not until the 1920's that the three peoples were administratively separated with each having its own territory. this was necessary for peace, development and stability, but it also meant that mixed areas had to be allocated to one of the groups involved in the conflicts. we are now seeing the effects of this in the minority areas of south ossetia and abkhazia, and especially in nagorno-karabakh and nakhchivan, where both armenian and azerbaijani influences are present. the tendency is to drive out not only the people who belong to the neighboring people from such areas but also to destroy their historic buildings, places of worship and cemeteries and to obliterate their memory forever. the fact that there is no longer an overarching soviet union to prevent such effluents has made it even more important for the rest of europe to contribute to the peaceful and mutually respectful coexistence of the neighbouring peoples in these now independent states.
author. - mr president, the majority of sri lankans are sinhalese who consider themselves the only true inhabitants of their island. in the northeast another group of people form the majority, the tamils. with their different language, religion, and culture, they are viewed by many as unwanted invaders from southern india. the alternating governments of the left and the right are thus trying to win the voters' favour by outdoing each other in their deafness to the wishes of the tamils. this has led to years of war, parts of the country are not under government control, his plans for self-government in the north-east have not been implemented and foreign mediation is not producing results. the former mediator is now a minister in norway. it seems that the outside world is accepting that this problem will never be solved, that the violent conflict will continue endlessly, with much destruction and death, and that some of the inhabitants will leave the country as refugees. from the point of view of human rights and democracy, capitulation is unacceptable. it would therefore be good if this parliament would soon send a signal that we in europe are outraged at the lack of will to find a solution and that we are doing everything we can to achieve results.
the rapporteur has to consult with the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteurs of the various political groups. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. that is why we would like the vote to be postponed until wednesday.
i am glad to be able to raise the following matter in the presence of commissioner frattini. the dutch minister for integration, mrs verdonk, recently announced that she would change the return policy for homosexuals and christian asylum seekers from iran. she says that homosexuality and christianity are not banned in iran, so that asylum seekers can just go back. that may be true in a strict sense, but in practice homosexuals and christians do have reason to fear for their safety. homosexual activity is punishable by death. my question to commissioner frattini is whether the commission wants to find out whether the dutch return policy is in line with the european minimum standards for asylum seekers under the directive which is to be implemented in october this year and whether it is in line with international agreements.
the questions put by the honourable member are meritorious in their approach to trafficking in human beings and prostitution. i am particularly in favour of the questions on the investigation of the connection between the two and the question on the developments in the world cup. i think that commissioner frattini's answer was excellent. i am glad that the commission is willing to make a comparative study of the way in which member states treat prostitution in legal and practical terms and what effect that policy has. commissioner, mr frattini, would you also like to take account of the degree of transparency and controllability of prostitution, the degree of forced prostitution, the possibilities for prostitutes to leave the profession and the demand for prostitution. i am interested in the answer because it may provide useful information on the most effective way to combat the adverse effects of prostitution. finally, i am very pleased with the tone of this debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i fully agree with what the previous speaker said and, by the way, good evening to commissioner frattini for the third time today. we do not need to give reasons here tonight why citizens from the new countries should have access to the labour market. on the contrary, it is the countries that continue to close their markets that must explain why they continue to deny full-fledged eu citizens their basic rights. but of course it is also sound economic policy to lift the restrictions. the european economy and the labour market need people. if we as the european union and as the single market are to compete with large markets outside europe, we need dynamic, young, well-educated people who are mobile. that is what we have always sought to achieve in the european economy. so keeping the labour markets closed is absolutely pointless. it is also an illusion that these restrictions are holding back workers from eastern europe. the fact is that these eastern european workers have been here for a long time, but they are being exploited by rogue employers and are living in degrading conditions in our countries. i find that a shame. it is therefore for reasons of civil rights, the economy and solidarity that the restrictions must be lifted. i am therefore glad that my country, the netherlands, is probably going to lift the restriction as well - a majority is now in favour of this - and i would like to call on all member states to do the same in the year of mobility.
the vvd euro group is in favour of the 'old' member states lifting restrictions on workers from the new member states. all european countries benefit economically from open borders. in the netherlands, for example, we are facing shortages in the metal, horticulture, agriculture and health sectors. in britain, ireland and sweden, open borders have proved successful. if we can get the front door locked, we have control over who we let in instead of trying to keep the illegal back doors closed. that is not possible, because every year we see that the seasonal work is mainly carried out by illegal workers.
i would like to congratulate mr cottigny on his report. in my country, the netherlands, restructuring and globalisation are important topics. opinions differ on how to deal with it. the social democrats, of whom i am one, believe that unnecessary money pumping from the netherlands to brussels and back is not the solution. that is why not everyone in my country is happy with the proposed european globalisation fund. i would like to express my support for this fund, however, adding that i think that as much as possible it should be linked to existing esf structures. why am i in favor? because citizens need support in coping with the negative effects of globalisation. if we cannot expect this support from the national authorities, as in the netherlands for certain regions, such as the north, we are happy to receive it from europe.
in writing. the christianunie-sgp parliamentarians were unable to agree with the opinion to the council on the instrument for rapid response and preparedness in the event of serious emergencies. the amendment of the legal basis, the extension of the instrument to finance preventive measures and the increase in the budget cannot be counted on our agreement. we particularly regret the change in the legal basis, all the more so since parliament has in previous, similar votes opted for article 308 as the only correct legal basis. the extension of the definition of article 175 of the treaty to include this instrument is not the right way forward and can only be interpreted as a majority position in parliament to extend its influence to matters which are not within its competence under the treaty. in addition, the financial consequences of the deployment of relief teams should not be regulated by a community instrument. this is a matter of solidarity between countries.
in writing. the vvd delegation thought it necessary to vote against the hutchinson report on relocation of firms in the context of regional development, because it expresses unambiguous support for the commission's proposal to set up a globalisation fund. the vvd is strongly opposed to this fund because this form of state intervention is counter to the internal market. social policy is a matter for the member states themselves. in addition, a european system already exists which provides for the possibility of retraining workers. the existing european structural funds provide the member states with the financial resources to (re) educate their populations. the hutchinson report also contains a number of unnecessary and intrusive bureaucratic provisions which impede freedom of establishment and thus undermine the dynamism of the internal market.
in writing. the christian-union-sgp parliamentarians can agree with the motion for a resolution on the mercury strategy, but would like to point out that exceptions to the ban on the use of mercury in measuring and control equipment should remain possible. one of these exceptions should be the production of conventional mercury barometers, as reflected in the adopted text of the resolution. the production of these products uses very little mercury, which also poses a relatively low environmental risk by being contained in glass. several small companies in the eu depend on its production for their income and would have to close down by an absolute ban due to lack of a sufficiently suitable alternative material. we believe that the production of this european heritage should be allowed to continue in a controlled environment.
mr president, less than a year after the problems in the textile sector, europe is on the verge of a new trade conflict with china. the rapid economic rise of asian countries has surprised europe time and again, and europe has been divided again. but the eu must not allow itself to be paralysed by the contradictions between northern and southern member states. once again the commission's policy is a weak compromise between free trade and protectionism. the commission must therefore give priority to the development of a sound and unambiguous trade policy with the asian region. the continuing increase in sectorial conflicts must be stopped. i understand the frustration of importers and of member states which do not have their own industry. on the other hand, i think it is very important to point out to china the rules of the wto. these words must sometimes be followed by action, commissioner. i therefore call on you to take account of the state intervention in the footwear sector in the negotiations on the granting of market economy status to the people's republic of china.
it is absolutely true that the european arrest warrant already has many advantages. it makes the extradition system more efficient, considerably faster and also less arbitrary, but that doesn't take away from the fact that the arrest warrant is still flawed. my group was opposed to the introduction of the european arrest warrant at the time because it did not involve agreements on minimum standards in criminal proceedings. the only thing that has been done is to investigate, without taking the necessary guarantees for the rights of suspects. that seems very proactive and tough on crime, but that's also what's been an obstacle to cooperation in that rendition. three years after the arrest warrant was issued, the situation has not changed. the framework decision on the procedural rights of suspects has not yet been adopted by the council. i agree with mr watson's call for the council to clarify which member states are opposed to improving the rights of suspects, and for what reasons. it is true that mr demetriou has said that all member states must respect the rights of the accused and the convention on human rights, but there are many cases in strasbourg. and there are also many differences between member states, particularly as regards procedures. if we were all in agreement on the rights of the accused, we could of course sign the agreement on procedural rights in the middle of the afternoon, but we cannot do that because there are very big differences. and the result of these great differences is that national courts are still trying to decide when you can hand over someone and when you can't? this has led to a number of court cases, which have prevented people from being transferred to another eu member state. an example of this was a court case in bolzano; the court there refused to extradite an italian to austria. once we have joint agreements on the rights of suspects, the transfer of suspects will also be much smoother. i would therefore also ask the council to see this not as a gift for the rights of the accused, but as a necessary step forward, which is to do both with repression and with investigation, but also to guarantee the rule of law, also at european level; if there is no trust between member states, then in the end it will not do any good to that investigation either.
i am therefore in favour of this measure to combat terrorism. in the 2002 debate i suggested that only offences for which a european or international definition existed should be included in the list. the current list of offences is too broad, creating a risk of legal uncertainty and discrimination. member states therefore take every opportunity to maintain the double criminality criterion. mr hazan rightly calls on the council to ensure that this double criminality is abolished. initially, she even asked for an extension of the list of offences; the commission has rejected this proposal. in view of the current signals, this was also totally untimely. it is better to follow developments closely over the next two years. i think that the assessment will have to lead to a reduction in the current list. the only way to ensure legal certainty in extending the list is to define all the offences in question in a european way. however, it is undesirable that this decision should be used to achieve a gradual harmonisation of criminal law.
i would like to thank mrs gräßle for her work, for even sacrificing her christmas holiday, as i understand it, and for the many fruitful discussions we have had together. the revision of the financial regulation is really very much needed. the santer commission's resignation led to stricter rules being introduced, the control mechanisms being revised and my group has always been in favour of this. we have also had to conclude, however, that this process of cleanup has gone a little too far. it has led to excessive bureaucracy in the application of grants, particularly affecting ngos, non-governmental organisations and small and mediumsized enterprises. the fear of misuse of funds is now so great that european officials shift the risk, where possible, to the applicant for a grant. we are therefore still not getting what we wanted, namely a european commission in which officials are really responsible and can take responsibility. i am therefore very much in favour of the amendments which are before us. most of the amendments tabled are about simplifying procedures. the principle of proportionality is introduced and i also welcome amendments nos 110 and 101, which deal with the percentage rule. at the moment, when beneficiaries acquire their own resources, they are likely to have to pay back a lot of money immediately, and the result is that you actually discourage people from taking initiatives to acquire their own resources. the european commission has said that it will adopt some of the main points of those amendments, but of course the devil is often in the details. you have seen in the proposals before you that the aim of the european parliament is to simplify procedures. this is not just a matter of the financial regulation; the commission will also be able to make a number of recommendations on the basis of the information it has received from the member states. the european commission will also be preparing a report on this subject. so i hope you will adopt the principle that simplification must take place, which will lead to real relief. at the moment, there is much talk of reducing the regulatory pressure from europe, and the big companies are immediately brought to mind, whose competitiveness would otherwise be hampered. but it is also very important for small businesses and non-profit organizations, if they can now benefit from a reduction in administrative burdens. this is important for the european commission in drawing up the implementing rules, but i hope that the council will also take this into account, that it is not just the big companies that are concerned, but that the smaller companies and the ngos should also benefit from the burden-relieving measures from europe.
i would like to thank mr o'neachtain for his excellent report. our group welcomes the report and we also support the two amendments which have been tabled. the report comes at a crucial time. last month it was announced that a number of deep-sea fisheries are threatened with depletion and even extinction. we cannot afford to lose sight of this, fish stocks are in a bad way, and a change of course towards sustainable and environmentally friendly fishing is urgently needed, and this change affects us all. let me start with the fishermen, they will have to adapt to the fact that fish stocks are being depleted. technical measures are needed, such as acoustic deterrents, electrical impulses to avoid drilling, adequate nets and hooks to minimise by-catch, but the non-technical measures are at least as important. i am thinking in particular of the prevention of illegal fishing and the establishment of fisheries reserves. fish populations will have a chance to grow again. it sounds simple, but unfortunately it's not. our group stresses that fishermen must be able to use sustainable methods. the fishing industry is not doing well, not least because of the rising oil prices. this requires an active and committed public sector to promote sustainable fisheries. the authorities must also guarantee control and enforcement. illegal fishing makes the situation impossible for all parties. without effective control, this inevitably leads to a tragedy of the commons. everybody loses, and there's not gonna be any fish left. thirdly, consumers must be involved in sustainable fishing. many consumers want to buy well-caught fish, but they don't know which fish is sustainable. certification and quality marks are therefore important. sustainable fish is first of all fish that is not overfished without unnecessary by-catch and discarding, and this requires good information to consumers. only then will consumers be able to make informed choices about sustainably harvested fish. finally, to make a change of course possible, we must also take responsibility as politicians. we must constantly call for sustainable fisheries and we must act; we must respond to those fishermen who allow the creation of fisheries reserves temporarily, so that they do not temporarily lose their income. the report before us is a series of good steps in that direction and these should take shape in the near future. the fisheries sector must of course be involved in the measures. only with responsible politicians and active public authorities, innovative fishermen and concerned consumers can both the fisheries sector and fish have a sustainable future.
president, every year in march we have a debate here in preparation for the spring summit, and since 2001 we have been discussing why the lisbon process is not meeting the objectives it sets. the 2004 kok report is clear on this point. the member states must take their responsibility and seriously reform their economies and welfare states; this is a very important issue for the european union. with economic growth again on the horizon, the necessary reforms are in danger of being delayed, but growth alone is not enough to sustain our social model. can the commissioner indicate what the european commission is doing to avert this danger and to implement the conclusions of the kok report? i hope that the reflection period will also be discussed, which is very much needed. europe's elite are clearly unable to speak about the future of the eu without the weight of a rejected constitution. nine months of reflection may be enough for a first sequel.
mr president, this debate is about the spring summit and we have a fine resolution with fine recommendations. the european citizen was promised more growth and more jobs, but let us not throw dust in each other's eyes, paper is patient. when the heads of government return to their capitals after the summit next week, they must also take ownership of lisbon, because it is the member states who, with the social partners, with the politicians, nationally and locally, are also responsible for achieving more growth and jobs. the message to the member states is simple and clear. the single market must be achieved. more research and development is needed, innovation must be supported and training and education must be more efficient and more quality-oriented. but, mr president, the lisbon strategy also has a social dimension. we are not competitive if we reduce our principles and values of solidarity with the weakest, of individual responsibility for our citizens, of social justice or wages to the level of our asian competitors. that is not the european solution that our citizens trust. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must have the courage to examine the financing of social security systems, because the demographic reality is coming very quickly. there is no point in philosophizing about an entrepreneurial climate or lifelong learning if we do not put it into practice. there's work to be done. president, we have set the european structural programmes so that 3⁄4, 55 billion, contributes to the lisbon objectives and when the money for those programmes is lacking, or when the member states are not willing to contribute, then i find that growth and employment in line with lisbon will not be achieved. as regards ageing/de-greening, mr president, we must adapt social security and employment policies so that active young people and fit older people can also contribute to the society of the future, to the prosperity and well-being of our citizens.
the european commission has been very clear in its report. there will be no new round of enlargement with a large group of countries at the same time, but the commission also states - and i think it is right - that the european union is and remains an organisation open to new members, but subject to conditions. finally, the commission rightly stresses the importance of communication. the enlargement of the eu to 10 new member states in 2004 was a success, but not all citizens feel the same way. an extra effort to tell this success story is therefore not superfluous. on behalf of the group of the european people's party, i can say that we broadly support mr brok's report and i thank him for the interesting preparation we have had in the past few months. the social democrats fully support the additional attention to the criterion of absorption capacity. the impasse over the ratification of the constitutional treaty plays an important role in this. without internal reforms, it will be difficult to steer the accession of new member states. as stated in previous resolutions, we believe that the treaty of nice is not a basis for new accession decisions. but there is also a greater need for greater clarity around the concept of absorption capacity, as laid down in the copenhagen criteria, and this too is rightly addressed in the report. i should like to take this opportunity to outline briefly the position of the social democrats on the possible accession of various countries. as regards our eastern neighbours, ukraine and moldova, we believe that it is not appropriate to have an accession debate at this stage. the best we can do is to invest in practical cooperation. we have agreed action plans with these countries and let us try to make them a success. we support the council's position on the balkans. the western balkan countries have a general prospect of membership, but this will be completed at different rates for different countries. we are continuing with turkey on the path we have taken, we are at the beginning of a process which will last for many years, and it is extremely important that we stick to the commitment, but also to the conditions we have set. i would add, speaking of the balkans, that the copenhagen criteria are of course still of vital importance to us, but full cooperation with the yugoslav tribunal is also an important demand of the pse group. i also believe - and this has been the subject of much discussion recently - that regional cooperation in that region can make an important contribution to bringing those countries closer to the european union. finally - and this is probably the most important point of the whole debate - the report speaks of the possibility of creating a new multilateral structure for european countries which are not yet members of the european union. for some countries this could be an alternative to membership, for others an intermediate step on the way to membership. for ukraine and moldova, for example, such a structure could be a good next step, but for those countries which already have a recognised prospect of membership, it is an option, emphatically, and not an obligation. that is what mr brok's report says very clearly. it is an option which these countries can choose for themselves if they consider it useful. it is not an alternative to the prospect of membership, which is for turkey and also for the balkan countries. i would therefore like to emphasize that this is our interpretation of paragraph 10 of the motion for a resolution. this is the way in which we in the committee on foreign affairs and security agreed with the rapporteur.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we believe that there is a need for greater clarity on the concept of absorption capacity, a fashionable concept of containers where everyone can put in whatever he wants, and that means that the question of geographical boundaries will eventually have to be answered. that question, ladies and gentlemen, can no longer be avoided. and yes, we also think that the eu needs to start thinking about some sort of intermediate form between full membership and neighbourhood, for those countries that do not yet have a prospect of membership. so it is not about turkey, it is not about the western balkans, but it is about ukraine, moldova or belarus. i must therefore say that my group and i were very disappointed, and even more so extremely annoyed, to see that in the run-up to this debate, in the media, the rapporteur has given his report a twist which goes against a number of key points. if one reads the media in preparation for this debate, the final conclusion for turkey, and for the western balkans, is that there must be some form of intervention rather than membership. it is not a coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, let us be frank about this, it is the rapporteur's opinion, he has never put it under chairs or benches; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. that is the rapporteur's right, but it is not the view of the majority of the committee on foreign affairs; it is not, and that is much more important, what is in his own report. it would therefore be a great honour for the rapporteur to say clearly and clearly what is in his report outside this chamber and not to confuse it with the fantasy in his head. what parliament says in this report is that we do not want to undermine the membership prospects of turkey, of the western balkans, and that interventions for those countries are only possible if those countries themselves choose to do so. everyone knows as well as i do that all those countries of the western balkans and turkey do not want to go in that direction, they want full membership. let us stop creating confusion in this house, but especially outside it.
president. - until recently, a rapid and substantial enlargement of the european union was presented as a great step forward, deserving of everyone's support. it was seen as a reunification of europe and as the victory of the west in the cold war. after the major enlargement of 2004, this climate has changed considerably. public opinion in the old member states does not see this enlargement as a success, especially because of the increasing abuse of the gap between high and low-wage countries. the politicians are also becoming more reserved. the report on the enlargement strategy which we are discussing today makes this change very visible. attention is drawn to the european union's absorption capacity, its external borders, the costs of enlargement and administrative problems attributed to the lack of a european constitution. romania and bulgaria therefore appear to be the last countries to be allowed to join in the foreseeable future. other european states are referred to the neighbourhood policy. even the three countries already declared candidates for membership are not given a date for accession. all over the western balkans, in recognized states and in states or protectorates seeking independence, where groups of people with different languages and religions were sharply pitted against each other in the 1990s, public opinion now expects miracles from rapid accession to the european union. the union uses these expectations to demand reforms and thus to intervene deeply in the administrative choices made there. the union does not want enlargement for the time being, but it does want influence beyond its own borders. bosnia-herzegovina, for example, now has a tax system that nobody wanted there, and the regional autonomy guaranteed by the dayton agreement is being reduced. the propaganda posters say that thanks to the presence of a european military power, this country is on its way to the european union. public opinion in montenegro and kosovo, which adopted the euro as legal tender four years ago along with 12 other member states, already expects to be admitted to the union as independent states soon. in vojvodina, the hungarian-speaking population expects protection from slavic domination. in all these cases, the union's action so far has been disappointing. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the western balkans to achieve their goals. my group is not very enthusiastic about this proposal. on the other hand, we recognize that this text provides an opportunity to stress that the forthcoming referendum in montenegro must be taken seriously and that the conflict over the use of the name macedonia must be resolved quickly in good consultation between greece and its northern neighbour. it is also positive that a solution must be found quickly in kosovo that meets the needs of both the large albanian majority and the serb and roma minorities.
the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. this is of course equally true for the candidate countries. sadly, chauvinism is now spreading in an already highly controversial candidate country, turkey. in this context, i would like to put two questions to commissioner rehn. is the information i received last night from an expert correct, that the position of the christian churches in turkey has been deteriorating dramatically lately? the murder of the italian clergyman, andrea santoro, on 5 february in the port city of trabzon would not stand alone. consider another identical assassination attempt very recently in the town of mersin. consider direct threats to churches by telephone or even newspaper columns. in passing, i read from the anglican chaplain ian sherwood, who works in istanbul, that the distribution of christian literature in the vernacular, in turkish, is intellectually unacceptable, if not potentially criminal, to the turkish elite. commissioner, why freedom of religion in turkey? i hear that there is no progress whatsoever on this important point of the copenhagen political criteria. trabzon, as i heard last night, is figuratively situated in the so-called valley of the wolves. "valley of the wolves" is the title of an original turkish film production that literally imitates chauvinism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. a real blockbuster now in its own country with the cheering approval of the immediate entourage of prime minister erdogan and the speaker of the turkish parliament. mr commissioner, have you already addressed prime minister erdogan and minister gul to this chauvinism on turkish soil which is totally incompatible with european values?
mr president, enlargement has brought much good to the european union, for the people of the new member states, but certainly also for the people of the other countries. during the referendum in my country, the image was: the polish plumbers came and people were afraid. the reality is different: the netherlands is earning 2 billion euros a year from the latest enlargement with these countries. and it is precisely those who have always been in favour of enlargement who must communicate the information about enlargement, but also have to monitor the balance between enlargement and deepening. that balance is off. the treaty of nice was not really good enough for 25; romania and bulgaria are now joining. i think it is right that we should commit ourselves to putting things in order ourselves with a new treaty before we go beyond the 27. we should be the ones to do that. secondly: i think it is important that countries on our periphery do not have to wait for the european union until we have done our homework, but that they can indeed go upstairs now with a kind of partnership. if they really want to join later and europe proves to be able to do so, then a further step towards membership could be an opportunity for those countries. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). but that credibility also means that we take the criteria as credible. that means, mrs plassnik, that turkey must protect freedom of expression, not only for that one writer but for others as well, that freedom of religion must be upheld and that we are also making progress on cyprus. we welcome the age package deal, but it would be very good, also to the commissioner, if turkey could be persuaded to ratify and implement the protocol. commissioner, how do you propose to achieve that clarity? if it becomes clear that this is what is to be done, then we will go a long way in cyprus itself. i fully support amendment no 4 in that respect, in which we as a parliament once again make it clear that we want to fulfil our duty to the people on the southern side, but certainly also on the northern side of the island.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, imagine that next weekend president barroso called a press conference to announce the merger of euronet, deutsche börse and the london stock exchange. a dream scenario or a nightmare? i tend to say neither, but simply note that it is rather improbable that would happen. the message of my group, nevertheless, is that president barroso, the commissioner and their colleagues should not be caught napping in the situation we now find ourselves in, with the mergers, acquisitions and developments we see in the financial markets, energy and other sectors – sectors that are all very important for the european economy. we social democrats still believe that the state has a role to play in the economy as a facilitator, as a regulator and as a defender of the public interest. i do not say that we politicians should take the leading role and be the stars at press conferences, but we should play a role in silent diplomacy and in creating the conditions in a dialogue with companies; we should not only commence with what has happened but also anticipate what will happen. that is why i do not like your approach, commissioner, which is only negative and seeks to prevent authorities from interfering in what is happening with companies. i think there should be a proactive approach and i shall mention three questions on which we should have a thorough debate in europe. the first is industrial policy. i was very happy with some of commissioner verheugen’s remarks this morning, which were made more from the perspective of industrial policy. the second – which was also mentioned by mr lehne – concerns what is happening in takeovers and the way we organise this. we need a debate there, not only on shareholder democracy, which the financial times and the economist are preaching, but on other aspects too. the third is the european approach versus the national approach.
i would like to thank mr graefe zu baringdorf for his usual enthusiasm in carrying out his task as rapporteur. i agree with his main conclusions. now that we have more and more liberalization of trade in agricultural products, it is necessary that we have more international recognition of geographical indications and all this kind of thing. so, totally right. what is also important to me is what exactly the definition of a geographical indication is in europe itself. mr graefe zu baringdorf has already pointed out that parma ham must come from that very region. i have always been surprised that the largest producer of edammer cheese is not the netherlands but germany. i think that should be changed as far as i am concerned. if we do this in the wto - and i am glad he agrees with me - and we ask others to recognise our products, then it seems to me that it is only natural that we should recognise the products of others. i do not entirely agree with mr graefe zu baringdorf when he says that there are currently only two quality categories of agricultural products in the european union, namely geographical indications and organic production. that may be the case at the moment, but we have to go much further. it is necessary to establish a european quality mark for agricultural products. if we ask our farmers to respect animal welfare standards, to respect environmental objectives, etc., then it is very unfair to say to those same farmers, you have to compete with the rest of the world, with farmers who do not have to adhere to the same standards. the customer must be able to recognise it in the shop and therefore we must also develop a quality label for non-geographical and organic products.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr trakatellis for his work on this dossier. it is good that he is so committed to improving public health in europe. i can support most of this report. i would like to make a few comments on three points. first of all, the budget. amendment no 64 increases this substantially, although it is indicative. i believe that this amendment is not appropriate in this report because the amount of the budget is not being decided here today but depends on the outcome of the negotiations on the financial perspective. secondly, i support amendment no 148 by the epp group. genetic screening can be a valuable addition to current diagnostic techniques, but only if it is done in an ethical manner. we must prevent, for example, insurers from excluding a person from insurance on the basis of his genetic profile. finally, i would draw the commissioner's attention to the very bureaucratic way in which the research budget is now being distributed. i have been told that a single application can cost thousands of euros. in addition, there is uncertainty for applicants as to the criteria which will ultimately be used to assess and the grounds on which applications will be granted or rejected. the commission is also very strict with applicants when it comes to delays, but if it delays the decision itself, there are no consequences. of course, that is very frustrating. i propose that we start with a preliminary project in which applications are examined on a limited number of points. only the projects with real potential are then required to submit a complete application. this will reduce the workload at the commission and can also significantly reduce the burden on applicants. i would like to hear the commissioner's reaction to this.
mr president, good health is always at the top of the wish list of european citizens. if europe can contribute to this, it is very legitimate, and even better, we must contribute to it, because we must guarantee a high level of public health under the treaty. i congratulate the rapporteur on the programme. the rapporteur has been attentive to the wishes of his colleagues, and rightly so, and the european commission has produced a good programme, although parliament has improved it on a few points. can i start with one of those improvements? it is now expressly stated that the purchase and delivery of health care should be facilitated through cooperation between member states. i come from a border region where we have a university hospital in maastricht, where we have a university hospital in liège, where we have a university hospital in aachen. if you stand on top of the vaalser mountain - we call that a mountain in limburg, which is well over 300 meters high - you can almost see those three top academic clinics. it is necessary and beneficial to work together in these regions so that all these top facilities do not come to a standstill and cost us all a lot of money. so, mr president, i welcome the extension of the programme to those crossborder possibilities, that is the first point. second, health systems everywhere are under pressure, partly because of demography and partly because we have more and therefore often more expensive facilities. each member state is adapting its health care systems. why do we have to reinvent the wheel everywhere? why can't we learn from each other? that too must be addressed. president. - the next item is the report (doc. cost is better than profit. bird flu, it's not if, it's when. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i think that the commission has a duty to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i also think that the extension of the programme to complementary alternative care and services is important. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my sincere congratulations to mr trakatellis. his knowledge of health is a contribution to our debate. health is an important political issue, but first and foremost health is a national responsibility. it is right that europe should pay attention to health, but europe should only act if there is a clear added value. commissioner, i nevertheless expect a great deal from your policy. first of all, i hope that you will actively encourage all your colleagues to adopt a sound policy. look at agricultural subsidies through the eyes of health; do we really need to continue to subsidize fat, sugar and tobacco? i think we'd rather have fruit and vegetables. or, commissioner, you can join the battle between dg industry and dg environment over air quality, chemicals and make a strong case for health. it is not costing you any money and it is one of the most important services you can provide to the citizens of europe. secondly, fight against inequality, and here i agree with what mrs belohorská has said. citizens of europe have very unequal access to adequate treatment. cancer patients in some countries have a significantly higher chance of survival than in others. treatment methods differ, access to health is unequal. patients' knowledge of their disease varies from country to country. prevention is not given the attention it deserves in all countries. commissioner, gather the knowledge. member states, hospitals, patient associations, healthcare providers can learn from each other; prevention and treatment must be combined. i would urge you not to collect general statistics on the health of the population, but to collect very practical information on the main diseases such as cancer, rheumatism, diabetes, lung diseases and, of course, cardiovascular diseases and then see where improvements can be made. perhaps you can set up knowledge centres and networks which can be a valuable source of information for the practitioner and patients; the european union is making a valuable contribution in this way. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you all to sign declaration no 1, which is on diabetes and has been tabled by several colleagues. we have 260 signatures, we need 80 more, so we need your signature.
mr president, where the words ‘the consultations held under the luxembourg presidency’ occur in our amendment, i should like to insert the words ‘taking into account’, so the amendment reads: ‘taking into account the consultations held under the luxembourg presidency’.
author. mr president, the various political forces in moldova are keen to join the european union. however, it is not a candidate country and this does not seem to be changing any time soon. today we voted on the enlargement strategy as proposed in the brok report. if we restrict entry to newcomers on that basis, moldova will only be able to enter via a bypass. that is the model of german reunification in 1990. this would mean that moldova would eventually have to give up its own independence to return to romania, from which it seceded in 1940. such a solution was also on the table immediately after the collapse of the soviet union, but romania did not appear attractive enough to implement it in the short term. this may change if romania's membership of the european union becomes a great success and moldova comes to the conclusion that it is in a much worse situation as a neighbouring country. but such a reunification has never had the support of the slavic-speaking minority. this minority is concentrated mainly in the east and is much more oriented towards the old ties with ukraine and russia. the de facto separation of the eastern shore, the long stretch of transnistria bordering ukraine, may not be resolved until ukraine also joins the european union. in the meantime - and this may take a long time - efforts must be made to find peaceful solutions, to cooperate and to bring about democratic changes in transnistria, which is still ruled by authoritarian rule. my group has emphasized this in its own motion for a resolution. we regret that the joint resolution speaks of weakening the administration of transnistria rather than reforming it, but we can agree with the compromise text. on the one hand, because it does not call for violence against transnistria, and on the other hand, because it does not seek to isolate moldova as a punishment for the strong position that the communist party in that country has won from the voters.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not that we are not concerned about kazakhstan or that we think that nothing is wrong. of course we are concerned, but in the last period a sharp resolution was adopted by this parliament on kazakhstan. that resolution was taken seriously by the parliament and the government of kazakhstan at the time. it has led to the admission of more political parties, it has at any rate led to a step forward in the freedom of the press. we are again concerned, but what is striking now, in comparison with the previous resolution on the situation in kazakhstan, is the fact that the government, the president at any rate, is trying to bring transparency, in the sense that with regard to murders, with regard to cases where you can put questions, there is at least every opportunity for foreign observers to see what is happening. it is true that something is brewing in kazakhstan, but i think that it is necessary to assess the situation in a proper way, and in that respect we think that this resolution is too early at the moment. we say this because we do not think it is all great, but we are seeing for the first time that there are sensitivities now, that there may have been murders and that there have also been real murders, that it is not at all clear under what circumstances and by whom, but that there is a willingness to show what is happening, how the remaining process is going. it is precisely these points that we would like to address in order to strengthen our relationship as the european union with kazakhstan. the epp group therefore proposes that we make use of the cooperation between the parliamentary delegations. the parliamentary delegation from kazakhstan will be visiting brussels in may, and we will discuss all these matters as colleagues; as for the epp group, our group would like to see us go one step further with regard to the countries of central asia; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. in short, we are concerned about kazakhstan, we are not always impressed by the democracy there, but we are seeing at this very moment that there is more transparency, that there is some incubation, that there is a lot of uncertainty; i would like to congratulate the commissioner on the good information we have received on this point from her representative in almaty. we really appreciated that. as far as the vote is concerned, although we have contributed to this resolution, because not contributing puts you out of the picture, we have requested five split votes and the result of that is decisive for whether we support this resolution. in short, we have concerns, but we would like to discuss them in good collegiality with our kazakh colleagues to see if we can make some further progress on democracy.
the collapse of the soviet union has not proved to be a guarantee of democracy. - no, it's the opposite. some politicians who emerged from the communist period have lost their ideology, but this is precisely what is now hindering them even less than before in their techniques of remaining in power themselves or of transferring state power to their children. one of these techniques is to extend the term of office of incumbent presidents by ten years or even for life by means of a referendum without the possibility of putting one or more candidates against them. another means is to eliminate serious opposers by having them imprisoned on false charges, by having them crash or by having them simply disappear. in ukraine, georgia and kyrgyzstan, a broad popular uprising against such a regime has succeeded, but the question remains whether things will continue to improve there in the long term. in belarus, uzbekistan, turkmenistan and the great country of kazakhstan, the powers that be are still succeeding in breaking down any resistance. some have powerful foreign friends, for example, because of their role in energy supply. kazakhstan was for a long time a dry and sparsely populated area, with a small turkish-speaking population. russian colonization took place in places where industry or mining was possible or an experimental rocket base could be established. meanwhile, a new capital has been founded, far from the big city of almaty, and the influence of the russian population is being greatly reduced. the future of the large, sparsely populated kazakhstan, with its two major populations and the remnants of minorities who were once exiled from the russian empire, is extremely uncertain. the resolution rightly urges that relations with kazakhstan should not be limited to economic relations but should focus on political prisoners, the right to freedom of opposition, democratic decision-making and human rights.
author. president, african states are not the product of africans themselves, but of european colonization. their borders are drawn by foreigners. these borders cut across peoples who had wanted to stay together and they combine groups of people who have very little in common in history, culture, language and religion. these people can't see the government as their own. in practice, this is a serious obstacle to democracy. in such situations, persons who use violent means to favor one group of the population and oppress another have many opportunities. they can only hold their unstable states together by using atrocious means. under such conditions, only violent profiteers can hold state power in their hands for long. this is the situation in all parts of africa, but particularly where arab-muslim and non-muslim black populations are united in a state. the tragedy of sudan, with its continuing civil war and refugee flows, is now known to all. we have already adopted a resolution on the neighbouring country of chad yesterday. in that desert country, hissène habré was once the leader taken for granted by the outside world and he subsequently retained power in part of his country until he was forced to flee to senegal in 1990. even after his departure, there is no room for political opposition, armed gangs are terrorizing the starving population and trying to take over part of the territory from neighbouring countries. it is not just charles taylor, who emigrated from liberia to nigeria, but also mengistu haile mariam from ethiopia, who now lives in zimbabwe, who would be entitled to a judicial review. this may prevent african politicians from becoming violent dictators in the future. the situation in rwanda is not exactly comparable. some view the present dominance of the tutsi minority as just punishment for the hutu majority who have tried to oust and murder their centuries-long rulers. the long-term persistence of the present situation - and we must take account of the continuation of that situation - continues to feed the centuries-old mutual hatred. that is why we should not be complaining about the situation, but we should be paying attention to the horrors that have taken place there.
author. – mr president, i have an oral amendment. i should like to change the wording of ‘whereas on 12 november 2005 another opposition leader, nurkadilov zamanbek, was killed’ to ‘was found shot dead’. that reads better in the dutch and english translations, so that is my proposal.
i refer to rules 133 and 144 of the rules of procedure. mr schulz is talking about the next plenary session, but i wonder why this plenary session of this house is not being used to discuss the situation in belarus. we can wait for the commission to come up with measures, but we can also propose measures ourselves. it is absurd that people are going out into the streets now and we are not using this momentum. i propose that the debate on belarus be held today or tomorrow.
mr president, i would also like to come back to the points based on rules 133 and 144. i understand that, technically speaking, you may well be right about the fact that the request should have been submitted three hours before the start of the sitting. that was a mistake. but does that mean that we in this house are not now going to discuss belarus, where people on the streets are demonstrating, simply because of the technical problem that we did not submit a request three hours before the sitting? politically speaking, that is completely ridiculous! (applause)please disregard the three hours and let us vote on whether we are going to discuss belarus. maybe people do not want to discuss it: fine, they can vote ‘no’. however, let us not allow bureaucratic reasons to stop us discussing something which is so topical and in so doing make ourselves completely useless as a parliament. (applause)
mr president, i do not have a special theme i would like to discuss with you: this still concerns belarus. we are now collecting 37 signatures. i think we can proceed very early tomorrow morning with the request of our group chairmen. i do not expect to submit a written statement on it, but the 37 signatures collected here during the sitting should be enough, and i look forward to receiving your confirmation. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy market is not affected by the crisis. energy is essential for every country. what can we learn about security of supply? the interlinking of energy policy with foreign policy is now a fact. the european union must beware of pressure from energy-producing countries. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all energy suppliers. in addition, the russian-ukrainian crisis has brought the option of importing lng from other regions back into the spotlight. the failure of the internal market also requires our attention. the recent debate on the creation of national champions should not obscure this. however, the member states themselves have strong resources in terms of security of supply. in addition to a more diverse energy mix, they can seek to increase their emergency reserves. these measures, together with the intensification of cooperation between the member states, are more important than a comprehensive european energy policy. the energy agreement with russia also calls for caution. critical distance is preferable to further integration in the energy field with countries with which we have an unstable relationship.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, commissioner, the economic partnership agreements relate to trade relations with the acp countries. these are governed by the cotonou agreement. however, the current arrangements are no longer in accordance with the rules agreed in the wto framework, because the special treatment accorded to the acp countries in comparison with other developing countries is contrary to wto rules and must therefore be adapted to them. the transitional period for the current system runs until 2008. at the very least, the adjustment must be a fact. some people in this house reject the epo by definition. they do not believe that any degree of trade liberalisation can contribute to development in poor countries, in any form. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have no objection in principle to epos, provided that good agreements are made. this includes, for example, sufficient time and support for countries to adapt to the new situation. it is important that the epas provide for this. mr president, we are therefore in favour of the epo because of its potential contribution to the fight against poverty. the epp wants the development objective to remain at the forefront of the epos. so liberalisation should be gradual, for the benefit of the acp countries and adapted to the specific situation of the various countries, while keeping essential basic services such as water, education, transport and energy available to all. the epp wants a realistic timetable, which means enough time to make the necessary changes. the ppe-de group wants sufficient support measures (think of technical assistance, capacity building and reforms in e.g. customs and taxation) and it also wants to promote regional cooperation between the acp countries. the epp, the president, has concerns, however, particularly on the following four points. firstly, the limited information provided by the commission on the progress of the negotiations. the time pressure on the negotiations, which will also affect implementation, is also a factor. the negotiations have been going on since 2002 and we still have no draft texts. finally, the financial aspect. the success of the epos requires considerable sums of money. the first of these will have to come from the european development fund and secondly from additional funds. we still have insufficient clarity on the question of where this money should come from. the emergency measures provided for are also necessary. if the system is found to be inoperative in places, it should be possible to delay or temporarily stop the process. there is also room for this under the current wto rules. we have not yet made any clear proposals on this point. the commissioner has already gone into this matter somewhat more closely and i look forward to further cooperation and further information.
the report before us, mr president, at this stage of european development - some would say lack of european development - has an importance which cannot be stressed enough. it is not just about political parties. i think that is the good thing about this report and the rapporteur's approach. he could have said: yes, there are ten political parties, let's see how that works and how we deal with that now. but no, he's taken a much broader and more philosophical approach, and i think that's the right way to go. it has everything to do with what the commissioner has emphasized so much, the european political area. what do we often hear during election campaigns and between campaigns? what do you want with a european parliament like that, there is no european political space. there's no such thing. there is no european public opinion. there is no such thing, there can't be. it is not possible to have a european political area if every effort is made to prevent it from ever being created. and we need such a european political space for european, cross-border political debate. let's look at the situation now. twenty-five commissioners elected primarily on the basis of nationality. the council is naturally composed on the basis of nationality. this parliament too is not elected in a european election, but in 25 national elections, which coincide approximately in time, but not even exactly. of course, you will not get a european political space. and we will need it if there is ever to be an election of the president of the commission, whether by this parliament or, as i would prefer, by the european citizen. the commission has already made a number of proposals. or in a european referendum, not 25 national referendums, but one european referendum, for example to talk about a new or the old constitution. i am in favour of the european elections having a european element in some way. at least, all the way. then you have a european political debate and you need the european political space. then you also need political parties if you want to work with a representative democracy, and we want that, because we want to be controlled, we politicians. you can only be controlled if you have strong political parties, stronger than they are now, actually. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are properly used. i am glad that this report does so, for example by creating the flexibility to transfer money from one year to another. political parties operate at european level on a five-year cycle, not a one-year cycle. of course, you have to take into account that other ngos are now in a very tight, sometimes very painful, limbo, and perhaps we should look at that too. mr dehaene is quite right about that. it would be a good thing if we could give the flexibility we are asking for our political parties to others. finally, the call for a uniform statute. i'm all for that. i agree with the rapporteur on that point too. the european foundations must be kept in mind in this context. i prefer the option of party political foundations. i think the german system is the most civilized in the world in this respect and if we could get that at european level, we could be rich. finally, i would like to draw your attention to the amendments tabled by mr guardans on behalf of my group on the participation of women in political parties.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in belarus, and i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. this election was not free, it was not fair and in fact the situation was worse than in the presidential election four years ago. i also think it is appropriate for the european union to say that clearly and to make it clear to our public that we do not accept that a dictatorship is maintained in that country through this kind of election. the question then arises, of course, what to do. i agree with what mr klich has said about the need to look at how we can go about extending what we call smart sanctions. we also think that there is no point in developing sanctions that affect the people of the country. what we have to do with this population is to see whether we can help them in terms of further awareness or by making more room for pluralism in the country. i think it is up to the council and the commission to make very clear and very clear how we will characterize that regime after these elections and that we must describe it in as harsh terms as the americans. it is clear, at least, what we think of that regime. i also think we could look at whether the role of the high representative could be extended. why not also a special representative of the european union for belarus? the main point is, of course, the relationship with russia, as mr winkler has already mentioned. it is nice to have 40 signatures under a declaration of the european union, very nice, but one signature is missing. it is under a telegram which i believe mr putin sent to mr lukashenko on sunday, to congratulate him again on the fantastic result, and mr putin hopes that in the future he can work with mr lukashenko on the further democratic development of both countries. that's the situation we're dealing with. i hope that these issues will be raised at the g8 meeting, but perhaps especially in the context of the regular consultations between the european union and russia. i think it is immensely important that the eu works with neighbouring countries like ukraine, but also with the united states, when it comes to further developing policies to bring about change in the country we are talking about. i also think that a more visible policy of the european union would be in a position to do so at this time. the media in all our countries have paid a great deal of attention to these elections. we should take advantage of that momentum. i'll see you then. we shall have a wider debate on this matter in two weeks' time in strasbourg, where we may be able to go into some detail about the measures that the european union could develop. i would ask the council to come up with a good programme, with good proposals to support the opposition and civil society in the country. i think that's very important. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. it needs it, it deserves it, and it's probably the only way forward to change the country. i agree with mr winkler: it can't always be winter in minsk.
president. - the council and the commission have indicated that they will discuss sanctions and measures, and rightly so. i am surprised, frankly, that no plan of action has been drawn up in advance. the current situation in belarus is not surprising to anyone. many examples of possible sanctions and measures have been reviewed and i wholeheartedly support them. for example, the extension of the visa ban for government representatives, a flexible policy with low-cost visas for ordinary belarusians, the freezing of foreign assets, the better alignment of european financial programmes with the specific situation in belarus and so on. what i think is still under-reported, however, is russia's role in this story. mr wiersma has just made a point of it. the role that the union can and must play in this area is even more important. putin congratulated lukashenko, i repeat, without looking or blushing at his victory. in this way, he simply ignored the provisional conclusions of the osce. putin is also the man who keeps belarus' economy running with cheap raw material supplies. is it not time for the council and the commission to engage in a constructive dialogue with putin? the president-in-office of the council has just said that he expects certain things to be brought up in contacts with russia. noble, but still not enough. it is not normal for putin to continue his policy with dry eyes and to congratulate lukashenko, while human rights are being blatantly violated. or are we risking, by taking a too clear-cut stance, to create a conflict with other priorities, such as securing europe's energy supply? it would be a real pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, if self-interest did not come into conflict with the ideals on which the eu is founded.
mr president, you do not have to be an economist or a political scientist to know that the trend towards monetarism and the disappearance of green in our society has a number of consequences. mr president, what we politicians know, but what most citizens do not know, is that globalisation and demographic change are bringing with them a whole host of problems. the bushill-matthews report is trying to provide a perspective, and i thank him very much for that. but what we should do is not just look at what the commission says. we have to make sure the birth rate goes up. but it is not a matter of politics, it is a matter of parents making sure that children are born. what the politicians have to do is to ensure that we have a child-friendly society, a society in which children are not a burden but an asset. that means that people must be able to take care of children properly. this has consequences for labour market flexibility, lifecycle flexibility and flexibility in working hours. that is the political issue. if we want to have a good society, a just society in which young and old can function, and this is necessary, then we must also ensure that legislation at european, but certainly also at national level, is child-friendly.
in writing. almost 85% of the members of this parliament today voted in favour of increasing subsidies to his own political party and relaxing the rules on what that money can be spent on. in addition, the current budget of eur 8,4 million spent on grants for european parties last year will be further increased and those parties will be allowed to set up reserves if they fail to spend the grant within one year. often, politicians develop their own logic, independent of their constituents. that was the case with the failed proposal for a european constitution and it is even more so with this kind of subsidies. first, parliament's money was illegally used for european party alliances. on 18 june 2003 i voted against legalising this abuse and today i am voting against further enlargement. if national parties want to unite in european parties, they should decide for themselves, but i do not see why they should not pay for some of them themselves. the fact that they are now calling for an increase in subsidies and a relaxation of the rules governing them gives the impression that politicians are more concerned with the interests of their own group than those of their constituents.
president. - as you have just said, charles taylor, who is accused of war crimes, has been brought before the un war tribunal in sierra leone. as head of the eu election observation mission in liberia, i strongly urged the newly elected president ellen johnson-sirleaf to seek extradition. it agreed to this on condition that the president of nigeria and the african union cooperate. the arrest and extradition of charles taylor is a success for the new liberia and a successful test for the african union and certainly for the eu. our work on the ground deserved praise. the arrest has lifted a shadow over west africa and opened the region to peace and democratic development. as head of the election observation mission in liberia, i wholeheartedly support your idea and the idea of the chairmen to invite her to speak here in the plenary and i can hope that in the meantime the eu will continue to give strong support to the millennium development goals and the democratisation of that country, because that is what the citizens there now deserve.
mr president, competition policy is one of the main pillars of european policy and its sound and sound implementation is important in the light of the lisbon strategy. i therefore wholeheartedly support the reform policy of commissioner kroes with greater emphasis on simplifying procedures and avoiding red tape and legal costs. this report from the european parliament rightly places your competition policy at the centre of the debate, because politicians should not sit in the commissioner's chair or even in the judge's chair when it comes to specific cases. some of my colleagues seem to find it difficult not to do so, but the report under discussion is focused on your competition policy. the creation of the european competition network is an important development and i call on the commission to improve the exchange of information between the national competition authorities in the european network, so that unity in the implementation of european competition policy is maintained. finally, i would call on the commission to speed up the final stage of the modernisation process, and i am talking about article 82 - abuse of economic power. i would like to stress the importance of a policy which takes account of the structure of the market and does not focus, as is currently the case, on the market share of a particular firm. globalisation has changed the world and large companies with significant market shares, for example those making important contributions to innovation, should not simply be judged on their dominant position but should be seen in a broader economic context. i hope you will do justice to that in the policy you are going to introduce on article 82.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i happened to look into that case at the time and i think it was typically a case of lack of supervision in the united kingdom and lack of regulation in the united kingdom and that it is therefore wrong to blame europe for that now. and that was in the thatcher period, just to be clear. i shall confine my remarks to a number of issues which are also dealt with in the report and which have been raised recently, particularly in the debate on how national interests can be brought back into competition policy. in this respect, there are at least two issues which are also relevant to the rules of play of european competition policy. one of them is the rule of two thirds. it is good that further steps are taken in this area, because they do not take into account the differences in the size of the member states and the impact of certain measures, including for neighbouring countries and for regional policy. that is a very important point which we have raised again. the other point has already been raised by mr berès, using the example of the stock exchanges. it is clear that even if the turnover is below the threshold of european involvement, the effect of such a concentration can be european, and that is a reason - as you have already indicated, commissioner - to consider whether we cannot broaden the criteria for european competence in this context. i would like to raise these points again and i would also like to ask for support for our amendment no 9.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1768/92 on the common organization of the market in bananas (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposed constitution, which was rejected by voters in france and the netherlands last year, would not have altered the council's powerful role. the council is both the government and the senate. the council meeting behind closed doors is one of the union's greatest democratic shortcomings. in practice, this makes it impossible for meps and national parliamentarians to be sure that their member states' ministers are voting as they have promised. a good practical example is the vote on software patents a year ago, where either the dutch or the danish minister lied to his own parliament about his own voting behaviour. democratic control of decision-making becomes impossible. the publicity of council meetings, not just legislative meetings but all meetings, does not have to wait for a constitution but can be made now. further delay means a deliberate undermining of parliamentary democracy.
the austrian presidency should make it a priority to make the meetings of the council of ministers public. the european parliament meets and votes as a co-legislator in public and all the meeting documents are on the internet so that all people, organisations, media and national politicians who wish to follow us can do so. i see no reason why the council should not do so. the council conclusions of 21 december on this subject show too little courage. it is particularly important that both the vote and the debate be held in public on matters on which the council decides by unanimity. it's the only way to get rid of backroom deals. this is not difficult, since the opening up of council meetings does not require an amendment to the treaty, but only an amendment to the council's rules of procedure. it is not the time for the council to take decisions, for the most part behind closed doors. access to documents of the institutions must also be improved. the european citizens who rejected the constitutional treaty in the summer of 2005 demonstrated the need for a more transparent and democratic union.
deve, rapporteur. - (nl) mr president, commissioner, first of all i should like to congratulate mr papastamkos on his excellent report. as the author of the opinion of the committee on development i am pleased that the development component of the report is prominently featured. that's right. the contribution that trade can make to development, poverty reduction and the achievement of the millennium development goals is undeniable. but trade remains a difficult subject because the interests of the various countries do not always run parallel. however, law and order in world trade remains important. everyone benefits from fair trade rules. the multilateral trading framework therefore remains of great importance, especially for the developing countries, and therefore everything must be done to ensure that this doha round is successfully concluded this year. i was hopeful, but now i'm worried. we are now almost four months into the process and there is little progress and rio has also not been able to deliver enough. in many areas there is still a lot to be done, for example in the elaboration of special and differential treatment - the commissioner said it too - in respect of aid to the least developed countries in particular to strengthen their trade and negotiating capacity, in respect of trade-distorting subsidies such as internal aid, and so on. the commissioner mentioned it. these issues need to be further negotiated and this cannot depend on a result in agriculture or nama alone. president. - mr lamy warned us recently that failure to achieve the three main objectives by the agreed deadline of 11 april is a recipe for failure of the round. he mentioned internal aid, market access for agricultural products and industrial tariffs. europe, the usa and the large and more developed developing countries must take their responsibility. i still hope for a positive outcome this year. the european effort is good, but without the efforts of all the major players, a result that is decisive for the weaker developing countries cannot be achieved at multilateral level. let us continue to work for a successful round with a good result, especially for the poor countries.
president. - i share the concern of mr papastamkos that the doha round has been too dominated by agriculture. this leaves the eu with virtually nothing in the way of names and services. the eu must give priority to progress on these dossiers and i therefore welcome the rapporteur's amendment calling on the commission to draw up an alternative action plan in the event of negotiations failing. this is more realistic than simply insisting on completing the round in 2006. a second element which i would like to highlight in this report, which is a solid one, is the role of china. it is not only the protection of intellectual property and the fight against illegal state aid that merit europe's attention, but also access to the chinese market. i therefore welcome the increased cooperation between the eu and the united states resulting in a joint complaint on the import of automotive parts into china. this dossier also shows that the commission should continue to give priority to better implementation of wto rules by china.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). the us is lagging behind on the agricultural reform bill, the eu is reluctant to further restrict automotive sensitive products and the curtailment of blue services, and the g20 is lagging behind on the reduction of industrial tariffs. africa and the least developed countries are in danger of falling victim to this. they deserve a strong right to the protection of their own agriculture, because seven out of ten people in those countries live off this sector and they deserve generous access to the growth markets of the eu, the us and the g20. the wto secretary-general, pascal lamy, clearly told us in the european parliament two weeks ago: we have to continue in geneva at the end of the month or the round is a bust. it costs europe economic growth and jobs, and it costs africa economic development and the achievement of the millennium goals in the field of basic education and health care. bring together the interests of europe and africa! i call on commissioner mandelson to do everything possible to eliminate and reduce agricultural subsidies. support the europe of the 21st century and do not make africa and our citizens prisoners of the choices of the past!
in 2003, mr garcía-margallo y marfil wrote his previous report on the economic guidelines, and now, three years later, it is clear that cooperation through the open method of coordination is not having enough effect. this is very clear from the place the environment occupies in economic policy. the stockholm summit decided to seek to include environmental and social policy in the economic policy guidelines. the aim is to achieve a sustainable and social market economy in the european union. i think that the environmental aspects of economic policy are not being sufficiently addressed. i therefore advocate that the guidelines for economic policy should include clear and concrete environmental objectives in addition to references to the importance of the environment. i am thinking here of the inclusion of targets for energy consumption and co2 emission reductions. economic growth will have to be accompanied by a responsible use of natural resources. i shall therefore support the amendments tabled by mr lipietz.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for his report and for the work he has done. mr őry has been very conscientious in his duties. he did a good report. we have prospered in europe thanks to the four freedoms which we have enshrined in the european union. the free movement of workers is an integral part of this. i now see that fear has ruled the enlargement process in the old member states and that fear of displacement effects on the labour market - which is already under pressure or was under pressure - has led to restrictions on free movement. i have always felt that fear is a bad adviser and that we would have served ourselves much better if we had opened up the labour market completely from the start. this can also be seen from the results of studies carried out in the united kingdom and sweden. the united kingdom is not implementing social security as we would like. what's that fear got to do with it? the fear is that the displacement of the labour market which is thought to be avoided by not opening up the frontiers will be avoided. nothing could be further from the truth. many of them enter our member states and work long hours for little money. they are poorly housed, they are selfemployed, they have no staff and they compete with our small and mediumsized enterprises. what's the answer to that? so no fear at all. the answer must be to open up the borders and ensure that they are controlled in a perfect way. checked for compliance, not with the minimum wage, but with the wages and conditions of employment as laid down in the cacs. the conditions of safety at work must also be checked. that is good for the labour market in the new member states as well as in the old ones.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his proactive and rapid submission of the text which is already in the table and which has been worked on very quickly. the alde group believes that a step forward has been made in relation to the position adopted by the european parliament, and that is a good thing for employment in europe. the alde group believes that creating jobs is the best social system that exists, even more so than protecting our present achievements. unfortunately, a number of factors and sectors remain excluded which could lead to member states abusing the system to protect their own market. we call that protectionism and it may lead to many proceedings before the european court of justice. there are still container concepts, like gambling, the audiovisual sector, you name it. what is included depends on the interpretation of the member states. we would have liked to see a much stronger definition and demarcation of what is excluded and what is not excluded. unfortunately, there is no support for this at the moment, and it will probably take some time. we hope that this progressive understanding will come. you see that sometimes, as in france, it can be a problem to reform to secure our present gains and prosperity, including for our children. after all, every tuesday, millions of people take to the streets to protest. i'm sorry, i'm sorry, i'm sorry. i was just trying to help. but politicians are all about making long-term decisions and sometimes getting re-elected in the very short term. we often choose the latter. we believe that a step forward has been made. we also supported the proposal at first reading. we hope that some clarification will be given on a number of sectors which are excluded. we think, for example - and you yourself have said this - that there should be more clarity in the definitions, which makes it more difficult for member states to protect their markets from incoming services from others. the mobility and dynamism of the economy will have to be improved and strengthened in the internal market if we are to be able to compete with other major economic regions in the world. i think that's how we can maintain our prosperity. i thank you and i hope that a positive result can be achieved very quickly at the next council. (applause from the left)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his excellent report, which has been very helpful to me. i have great appreciation for the way you have worked towards us. mr president, what we have here is a great step forward. i have a few questions and a few comments. i'll start with commissioner mccreevy first. you said you were coming with something about health. is there a directive coming? we cannot allow the european court of justice to decide that we are doing our duty and then do nothing. i would be very grateful if there were indeed a directive, because the form did not mention you. secondly, i would like to address commissioner špidla. i agree with both of you that articles 24 and 25, as originally formulated, have succeeded in making it impossible to create administrative obstacles in the host member state. i am 100% in favour of doing something about it. the other side of the coin is that wages and working conditions can also be manipulated, creating unfair competition in the labour market. this means that it is also important for the posted worker himself that new policies are introduced. i have a question, though. why are you here, commissioner spidla, with a statement? i ask you this because mrs schröder is working on a report on the posting directive and you yourself have already made an evaluation of the posting directive. how can one come up with a tool that is difficult to enforce? why did you not opt for the amendment of the legislation? president. - the next item is the report (doc. i am glad that the control of our relations with one another will also be improved by the cooperation of the labour inspectorates. we shall have to discuss this further.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am quoting an article which appeared in an authoritative dutch newspaper last may, just before the referendum in the netherlands. the quote begins: "not barroso, not blair, but mr van alphen from the netherlands and thousands of other national officials make the daily decisions in europe". this article has not contributed in any way to a positive attitude in the netherlands towards the referendum. you know that ended badly. the netherlands has said no. it's worrying. the regulation is a worrying one, and we need to talk about it today. we must work hard to remove the negative image that the public has of the regulation. and how can we achieve that? we can achieve this by creating greater transparency. we must also look at the administrative burden that comes with regulation. many companies are burdened with the heavy administrative burden, and if there is one thing that affects the competitiveness of companies, it is that. mr president, more transparency, less red tape, how do you achieve that? firstly, by means of an actual impact assessment. and that's what's missing at the moment. we have seen many examples of impact assessments. they all differ in quality. some are good, some are not. if we as a parliament want to benefit from an impact assessment, it must be an impact assessment that provides neutral information, that provides good information and that is clear. that's what's missing. we have had some experience in parliament of impact assessments of amendments. the quality of the food varies. that is why i am proposing that there should be an independent review of these impact assessments. it does not have to be done by a heavy authority. that could be a panel of four experts in the field of impact assessment, who simply look at the impact assessments that the commission is making and the impact assessments that we are making here in parliament, and then give advice on them. so no agency, no heavy authority, but just an independent quality audit, an effective external quality audit. mr president, i now come to my next point, the comitology. that article i was just talking about was specifically about comitology. there was another passage i don't want you to remember. it's about the committees. "you don't see them, you don't hear them, some 450 consultation clubs in brussels are constantly making decisions that affect the daily lives of citizens". the same applies here: more transparency. here too, when comitology leads to secondary legislation, that legislation must be tested. we must also show the consequences of such legislation by means of an impact assessment. the citizens will then really see that we mean business and that we do want transparency. finally, mr president, the implementation. the implementation - as mr frassoni has already pointed out - is extremely important and parliament must also pay much more attention to it. if a report has been discussed in this plenary, the rapporteur's work is finished. i would suggest that we ask the rapporteur to inform his committee of the progress of the implementation three years after it was adopted in parliament. this will make a significant contribution to good implementation in the member states and also to good contacts with national parliaments. these are the proposals, mr president: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are the elements of an interinstitutional agreement which i see as the way to actually start on this regulation.
rapporteur for the opinion of the economic and monetary committee. i fully agree with these final words of mr barroso. i have drawn up an opinion on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on mr doorn's report. i would like to congratulate him on this report and also thank him for including almost in full the various paragraphs which we had included in our opinion, based on our experience in the committee on economic affairs. i would also like to echo the words of mr winkler, and say, in a slightly different way: better regulation is not always less regulation or deregulation, but more effective regulation that is focused on the outcome and on the bottom line. this cycle of preparation, consultation, rule-making, impact assessment and then implementation and enforcement has been mentioned by several people. in our opinion i have advocated that we should start from the back and look at the process from there. how to make the process effective and from there, what rules to draw up. a bad example of how this has not been done, how this has not been thought about and how the field has not been involved in the preparation was the services directive which we have just discussed in its original form. fortunately, parliament has now changed that. i would also like to mention some good examples from the same directorate-general market. in particular, in the area of financial services, a practice has been developed and proposed by the lamfalussy committee of experts - which we call the lamfalussy procedure. in this context, those who are actually involved in the regulation process, namely the regulators, the market participants, the consumers and users involved in the process, are much more influential in determining what should be included in the rules. we have used that example to present to others and we would like to emphasize it again in this debate. we have problems with the call back and the responsibility of parliament as co-legislator to be able to monitor what comes out in the end, but the process as such is something we very much support.
it is extremely regrettable that in the debate on subsidiarity and better regulation there seems to be only one main motive, namely greater economic growth and more competition through less regulation. this creates the illusion that it is precisely in the field of social protection, the environment and consumer protection that more attention should be paid to subsidiarity. all of this fits into the neoliberal mindset that less regulation is by definition a good thing. the reality is that it is the european rules on the sacred internal market that are in the way of european citizens. for example, they enable a small municipality in the north of the netherlands to be told by the european commission that it must first ask for permission before it can build a fibre-optic cable network for its own citizens. or that the public support from the city of amsterdam to the local zoo is seen as a distortion of competition from brussels. it is no wonder that the dutch citizens no longer see any point in further extending the powers of brussels and in the proposed constitution which approved and supported that process. they have, by a large majority, thrown that text into the trash. the reality is that subsidiarity has long since become a meaningless concept. the european institutions, this parliament in particular, rarely or never ask themselves whether european involvement in a particular subject is actually contributing to a better well-being of people and the environment. on the contrary, a flood of european regulations continues to undermine the control of national and regional authorities. i refer here, for example, to the european services directive, which, even in modified form, will seriously undermine the autonomy of municipal authorities in the field of licensing or local services. in short: it is good that there is a debate on the quality and subsidiarity of european regulation. it is, however, utterly naive to assume that the fundamental problems of brussels' interference can be solved by scrapping a handful of regulations or by carrying out impact assessments. the first step will be to make fundamental changes to the rules of the internal market.
mr president, in the light of the reports on better lawmaking which are being discussed today, i would like to make a few comments on the role of impact assessments. i understand from mr doorn that he is seeking a sample check by a panel of authoritative experts. i wholeheartedly support the idea behind it. i would like to join mr doorn in calling for a truly independent committee, not one made up of representatives of the three institutions. in the netherlands we have examples of this, for example the committee which oversees environmental impact assessments. if you've failed badly on a panel like this a few times, you'll do better next time. i would also like to point out that legislation is always a learning process, but as explicitly stated in paragraph j of the doorn report, i think it is far too negative. we're trying to pass good legislation here. i'm sure that's going to go wrong, but to see that as a goal in advance is beyond me.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. that is why i welcome the report by mr takkula, which makes the citizens for europe programme the europe for citizens programme. i am less pleased with the council of the european union. it speaks volumes about the importance of involving citizens in the european union, but then gives us a tip when it comes to financing the europe for citizens programme. this is not the council's pride. worse still, it has made the debate on mr takkula's report extremely difficult. because when we talk about involving citizens in the european union, we really mean all citizens. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism. new citizens, immigrants and third-country nationals staying in europe for a long time. old citizens, young citizens, all of them. if there had been enough money, we could certainly have funded a wide range of projects that would have reached all of these groups. but there's not enough money. only a very limited number of programmes can be financed. in order to avoid people enthusiastically applying and being disappointed by the commission later on, mr takkula has been brave enough to disappoint people now so that it is clear in advance who is eligible and who is not. this is understandable and i generally support this approach. but in the field of commemorating the victims of european dictatorships, this approach is painful and regrettable. are the victims of one dictatorship more important than those of another? of course you didn't. we must therefore avoid this impression, even if there is a risk that the european commission will have to disappoint people at a later stage. i therefore hope that everyone will support the amendment tabled by the pse group which calls for the victims of all european dictatorships to be remembered. the european citizen must not be the victim of the council's urge to cut back. it's not too late. before the report returns to parliament for its second reading, the final decision on the financial perspective will be taken. i urge the parties concerned to make more money available for culture in general and for the europe for citizens programme in particular. without citizens, the european union is nothing at all. this has been confirmed time and again by the council, the commission and parliament. so we need to put money on the table. because the program offers many possibilities: the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment, and will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment. all great ideas, but great ideas without money are nothing but empty promises. if europe really wants to be there for its citizens, it must not abandon them now.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, first of all i would like to express my sincere thanks to mrs avril doyle. as rapporteur, she has made a number of important suggestions to maintain the environmental quality of these proposals. i like to think back to her tenacity during the trials. we have a result to be proud of. tomorrow we can finally set two milestones. at least, that's what i thought before we heard the statement. a first milestone has been reached in the field of climate policy. there is a broad consensus in this parliament that we need to take climate change seriously. urgent action is needed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. by restricting f-gases, we're taking an important step. f-gases are strong greenhouse gases used in a wide variety of products, such as air conditioning and refrigeration systems, fire extinguishers, building foam and even shoe soles. it is good that parliament and the council have drawn a clear line. greenhouse gases must be reduced as much as possible. innovation is important, and it helps to reduce global warming. the second milestone is of great political importance and concerns the internal market. we've been putting a lot of money into the first reading. instead of the legal basis of the internal market, we opted for the legal basis of the environment. the majority of the pse group wholeheartedly supported this. the reason is that a number of countries had already taken further measures themselves. the legal basis of the internal market threatened to force austria and denmark, among others, to withdraw their further measures. that is unacceptable. the internal market should be based on a high level of environmental protection. if this is not the case, member states should be able to take further measures themselves. europe is not here to force member states to do worse or to deprive them of the possibility of pursuing a decent environmental policy. at least we managed to make that clear. parliament and council want member states to be able to take further action. the commission must of course look very carefully and ensure that the restrictions on market access are proportionate. commissioner, i find your statement to be sadly meagre. i would have expected at least that you would show the political will to give room to member states who want to take further action. the reading of article 95 which we all know was really not necessary and we actually expect you to be politically prepared to give member states that space. that space is badly needed, because innovation is important for climate policy, but ultimately also for our economy and for the lisbon agenda. so in that regard, i would like to withdraw the statement you just read. i think the last word has not yet been said on this.
mr president, today we look back at the results of a spring break. another meeting of heads of government that has come to nothing. two european summits per year are sufficient for decision-making. the netherlands have already proposed this. i am in favour of abolishing these talking points, because the promises made are found to be unenforceable when they are returned home. to emphasize this, i have to point to france. french energy companies are making foreign acquisitions, but the borders remain closed to foreign acquisitions in france and foreign workers are also being denied access, now that the services directive has been blocked. in this way, one step forward is accompanied by two steps back. the riots in france show that it is difficult to reform the social system. the lisbon process is stalled in the protest of the electorate. but it will also be necessary to make clear to protectionist france that without reforms the social system is unsustainable. the eu must no longer tolerate the inhibitory effect of france. if a european summit of heads of government can take that powerful decision, then it can meet.
mr president, i wish to raise a point of order on the basis of rule 170(4) and rule 150(3) of the rules of procedure. it concerns the calendar and the ppe-de group’s amendment to the calendar. on the basis of these rules, i would like to postpone the vote on that amendment to the next part-session because i would like to reopen the political discussion about our working methods in this parliament. as we all know, the fact that we have to travel between our work office and our actual seat here makes life somewhat difficult. i myself, especially this week, have found it incredibly difficult to get here and consequently i have missed a vote. therefore some of the members of this house, including myself, have drafted this motion to postpone the vote. we would also like to ask the conference of presidents to reopen the discussion about amendments to the calendar. (applause from the left)
in writing. complementing the free movement of capital with the free movement of labour is hailed as an act of solidarity. the practice is the other way around. it reinforces exploitation and creates unnecessary antagonisms between workers from different member states. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the minimum wage is not exceeded. despite the restrictions in place until 2011, workers from new member states are already being used to squeeze labour costs. research by my party, the socialist party in the netherlands, has shown that the influx of workers from new member states leads to displacement on the labour market, unfair competition for small selfemployed workers, exploitation of cheap workers, poor living and working conditions and wages of less than 3 euros per hour. many dutch truck drivers have already been traded for polish drivers. a large proportion of construction companies are also seriously hampered by unfair competition from eastern european countries, according to research previously carried out by the sp among contractors in the hague region. the dutch trade unions took action against this in march. in the countries of origin, there is already a shortage of skilled workers in some sectors. my party is taking action against such a neoliberal free market. that is why i am voting against the öry report.
the fight for power between hamas and fatah in the palestinian territories is intensifying. the violent events in gaza over the past few weeks are a clear example of this, and the simultaneous occupation of several palestinian ministries in the west bank is a clear sign of any government authority and public order. the council and the commission, how do you think you can help to avoid this deep internal palestinian division? there can be no serious interlocutor on the palestinian side for the israeli poll winner olmert in this situation. the self-disqualification of the hamas terrorist movement should not be in any doubt in europe. so this is serious for israel's security: the growing terrorist threat posed by infiltration by al-qaeda cells in the gaza strip and by iranian activities in close coordination with hezbollah in southern lebanon. how do the council and the commission assess the explosive nature of these threats and what steps are they considering to take in relation to egypt and lebanon, both of which are associated countries of the european union?
mr president, i would like to make a few brief points. first, on the three demands as outlined by mr solana, i support all three but i fear that they are incomplete. i think that we should not only demand hamas’s respect for existing agreements, including the recognition of the state of israel; we should also demand hamas’s full respect of democratic decision-making in palestinian politics, of which this was a result. we need to demand that hamas does not touch the human rights of palestinians. our full support should go to the palestinian women that were demonstrating for their rights recently on international women’s day. mr solana said that hamas cannot change the past, but it can change the future. it was ariel sharon who once said that once you find yourself in power, your perspective on the world changes dramatically, and some world leaders have come out and described him as a man of peace. we cannot exclude the possibility that hamas will rise to the occasion. i would not bet my last dime on it though. we therefore need a long-term strategy. it is my hope that the next time we see elections in palestine, the palestinian people will vote hamas out and the only party that will be able to beat hamas is al-fatah. the young generation of al-fatah, meaning anyone under 50 for that matter, is calling for internal reform, and i think it is right to do so. that generation has the potential to reconnect al-fatah to the palestinian street. i stand in full support of its goals and i call on all my colleagues to look for ways to invest in this reform movement.
on behalf of the pse group president. - on behalf of my group, i too would like to welcome mr alexander milinkevich, the presidential candidate from belarus, and through him i would like to extend my greetings and support to the opposition and all the oppositionists in belarus, especially those who have been arrested and are in prison. it was said two weeks ago that we cannot accept the result of the elections as the result of a free and democratic process. in a kind of paraphrase of what the commissioner said: lukashenko did not win, but the people of belarus lost. that is an important finding. we must also note that lukashenko has no claim to democratic legitimacy and that it is therefore good that visible action has been taken by the european union to impose a visa ban on him in particular to indicate: mr. lukashenko, as far as we're concerned, you should leave as soon as possible, and you certainly don't have our approval. we don't want to see you, we don't want to talk to you anymore. that's one. i support the extension of the visa ban to other authorities and figures in belarus. we must think carefully about how this can be implemented as far as possible and we await the proposals of the commission and the council on this. we could also consider what can be done in the area of freezing funds to target the ruling elite in belarus in particular. it is important to state here today that we must fully adhere to the conclusions we have drawn from the elections in belarus. we must pay close attention to developments in the country. i myself have been involved in belarus for five years as mr klich's predecessor, as chairman of the delegation. the previous presidential elections were also completely wrong, and yet after a few months you saw the attention on belarus diminish. we owe it to each other, as an institution and as a parliament, to maintain this constant vigilance. i was glad that the commissioner made a comment on the dialogue with moscow. i would also like to hear from mr winkler what he thinks about how we can put this item on the agenda in the negotiations with russia, because - as i said last time - again the congratulations from putin to lukashenko came in very quickly. it would be good if the commission and the council also tried to think outside the box when it comes to further measures. what can we do, in addition to the existing instruments, to promote contacts between people here and people there? for example, it is very difficult for our members of parliament to travel to belarus. what can we do to make a real, creative contribution to the human contacts and practical support for the people of belarus? in the end, all i can say is, we must be persistent and above all not give mr milinkevich and his people the impression that we are going to let them down. we must persevere and give this parliament as much attention as possible. (applause from the left)
president, commissioner, president of the council, with all due respect - because i realise that the council in particular is already using strong language in its work - but i am somewhat disappointed by the statements. it is still not clear to me when and how the sanctions and measures proposed will be actually implemented by all the member states and the european commission. the extension of the visa ban for government representatives is of course wonderful. but what do we do with the judges, the police officers involved in abuses, etc? are they getting a visa ban, too? what happened to the idea of simultaneously and immediately committing to a flexible policy on cheap visas for ordinary belarusians and in particular for students? freezing foreign assets, better tailoring financial programmes to the specific situation, supporting the independent press and so on? when and how will this be concretized? we don't get much out of nice words after all. solidarity in words is wonderful, but we need concrete action. dates, numbers, deadlines, hard facts, that's what i wanted to hear. the role of russia also remains under-reported. i think that is what mr wiersma said. putin congratulated lukashenko on his victory without looking or blushing. he's also the man who keeps the economy running thanks to cheap supplies of raw materials. by the end of april, we'll know if putin is sticking to the bizarrely low gas prices for belarus. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region. economic gain is thus the objective. i would ask the council and the commission once again to make clear to putin in crystal clear terms what the eu stands for. the pressure must now be increased, partly in connection with the g8 energy summit in st petersburg in mid-july. for the time being, however, the council in particular is taking a very cautious approach. so my question is: is the council afraid that by taking a too clear-cut position it will come into conflict with other priorities such as its own energy supply? (applause from the left)
president. - i also welcome mr milinkevich on my behalf. it's not only a great honor to have him here, but also a very important one. this is not only a time of fear and threat, but also a unique moment of hope. mr milinkevich said it well on the 19th: the people of belarus have lost their fear and president lukashenko has reason to be afraid, because the most hardened dictator cannot stand up to the heroism of a people who are no longer silent. we must now give the right signals as europe. that means that we must quickly implement the visa restrictions and the freezing of funds and that we must also look in another direction. indeed, we must provide opportunities for those students and those people who cannot stay in belarus at the moment. we must ensure that they can study here and be prepared for a new and democratic belarus. may i ask you for a possible wisdom? the arms export. the president of belarus gets a lot of his money from arms exports. one to two billion dollars a year is involved, and a lot of that money disappears into a personal pot of the president and his cronies. it may be worth recommending that europe and its allies should be forced to impose harsh sanctions on arms exports, not least because this is no longer the president's money-pot, but the people will not feel it. there is little to oppose to the ban on arms exports from belarus. as chairman of the delegation for relations with russia, i would like to make one last comment. each country may have its preference for a particular candidate and each government. russia may have its preference, but what it cannot have is for an osce member to disregard the conclusions of the osce observers. the osce declares that the elections are not free and fair and russia cannot say that they are fair and congratulate president lukashenko without any reason. it is therefore important that this be put on the agenda in our discussions with russia and also on the agenda in the discussions within the g8. it is fine that president putin has called on president lukashenko to avoid violence, but that is far from enough. if russia is to claim to be a democratic country, it must align itself with the european community of values in defending democracy and human rights. (applause from the left)
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). it is a step forward that deserves our admiration and our utmost respect. the european union has a key role to play in this. our representation of the european commission in kiev is doing that too, and very well. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. these links must now be strengthened in an ambitious way. i hear a little bit, but not enough. whereas the european union was too cowardly to really condemn putin's cold-blooded cynicism towards belarus, we must now send a positive signal to the ukrainians and let the ukrainian citizens know that their choice for democracy also leads to concrete improvements in their daily lives.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, on this world health day i would like to reflect with you on the european contribution to the achievement of the millennium development goals. three of the eight goals are related to health care, the fight against diseases such as aids and malaria, and the reduction of infant and maternal mortality during pregnancy and childbirth. the world, and africa in particular, is still far behind in all these objectives. each year, worldwide, more than 1 million children die of malaria, 6 million children under five die of poor or no nutrition, and 2 to 3 million children die of diseases that could have been prevented by vaccination. in 2005, one woman died every minute from complications during pregnancy and childbirth. the european commission and the member states have repeatedly promised to give high priority to health care in developing countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu's development cooperation budget is spent on primary health care at less than 5% a year, far short of parliament's commitment and desire to spend 20% of the eu's aid budget on primary education and primary health care. put your money where your mouth is. we must also be much more strict in our criteria for spending when we give budgetary aid. no budget support to countries that do not qualify for it because of bad governance. and where budget support is given, it must be sectoral, i.e. explicitly allocated to health or education. it must also be very clear that the money has actually been spent on health care and what the purposes and results of that are, with a specific percentage allocated to the control of spending by a civil society watchdog. we owe that to the european taxpayer and to the people and parliaments of the host country. moreover, spending does not have to be done through european programmes alone, but can often be done more efficiently through cooperation with organisations such as the world health organisation, unaids, unfpa and through global initiatives such as the global fund. president. - mr president, europe must guarantee the financing of sexual and reproductive health projects which are underfunded because of the us president's policy of blocking funds for these projects. meanwhile, the united states is spending $12 billion on a ridiculous campaign promoting abstinence and fidelity to one's spouse. the united states congress today determined that this campaign is confusing and complicating existing campaigns. many women and girls have died as a result of this scandalous policy. as europe, we cannot and must not allow that to happen. i hope that colleagues from other parties in this parliament will also take the side of millions of women and girls, not bush. in addition to increasing spending, it is also a structural integrated approach to health care in developing countries. access to basic services such as health care is essential for the poorest, but lack of knowledge and infrastructure at the grassroots level often makes access insufficient. we must therefore invest in logistics and social infrastructure, in knowledge transfer and training of local staff, and also in basic education, teaching basic knowledge of hygiene, safe drinking water and healthy food. only if there is a basic structure can poverty-related diseases and other unnecessary causes of death be truly eliminated structurally. the resolution rightly also mentions the shortage of health workers, which is often caused by brain drain, highly qualified doctors and nurses going to work elsewhere in the world. we must prevent this brain drain by actively concluding agreements between sectors and countries, by encouraging circular migration, which involves returning to another country after a short period of time, by training and transfer of knowledge and by creating better working conditions. finally, in many countries, a large part of the money spent on health care goes to the poorest of the poor because of corruption and mismanagement. there are studies that show that in a country like chad, only 1% of the public money spent on health care gets to its destination. i come now to my own report on corruption and development cooperation which will be discussed in plenary tomorrow. good governance and the fight against corruption are essential to achieving the millennium development goals. this is something that both donor and recipient countries will have to work hard on in the years ahead. i cannot stress enough in this house the importance of the millennium development goals, particularly in the areas of health and education. the doubling of the budget allocated to this objective is now absolutely necessary. in doing so, you are doubling the chances of the world's poorest people to develop and escape from poverty. all of them healthy. make history of the poor!
i would like to join the words of the chairman of our committee on agriculture, mr joseph daul, and congratulate the commissioner on having come up so quickly with an action plan and also with unorthodox proposals to tackle the problem that is occurring in poultry farming at the moment. it has clearly understood that europe must do everything it can to cope with this crisis. the spread of avian influenza by migratory birds and the threat of the virus to humans demonstrate that society has a vested interest in stopping the disease and preventing the poultry sector from collapsing. it is really beyond words that, despite the threat to public health and the uncertain spread via wild birds, vaccination against avian influenza to protect humans and animals is still a taboo. the oft-heard argument that vaccination leads to sales problems has almost become a self-fulfilling prophecy. for as long as europe, as a prosperous market community, hides behind this argument, the global vaccination itself will continue to be treated as a contagious disease. then the proposal itself. the adoption of market measures and their financing have always been the exclusive prerogative of the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission is now proposing to move to a 50% co-financing rate. i have to say, also on behalf of my party, the cda, that in this case, given its limited financial resources, the commission has indeed perhaps chosen the best way of working with co-financing. i would like to ask the commission to make firm commitments to do everything possible to prevent distortions of competition between member states. the cda also wants the countries which are using vaccination and are suffering market losses to be able to absorb the consequences of this scheme, and the ppe-de has also tabled an amendment to this effect. i hope that many in this parliament will support that amendment.
i would also like to congratulate the commissioner on her tenacity. she has been listening all evening to a persistent misunderstanding among colleagues in the european parliament. the european union, ladies and gentlemen, is not an insurance company. where entrepreneurs take risks, entrepreneurs must and can take insurance. when france was a small and medium-sized enterprise, there was first a soft loan with a low interest rate from the french government and then the cattle farmer himself paid for the damage he had suffered by means of a self-built emergency fund. that's the way it is. the european union cannot be held responsible for all the damage suffered by a sector, in any industry. in the absence of a good insurance system in the poultry farm, you will have to take measures. the european union cannot help it. but what measures? not the strengthening of export subsidies. this is a scandal. the problem of the third world is not acceptable, it disrupts the world market and goes against the negotiations and agreements within the wto. what can be done is to encourage member states to grant this type of soft loan to poultry farmers in the event of a crisis. then the measure proposed by the commission. okay, i can temporarily support it, but i think we should first insist on a good insurance system for the poultry farmers themselves. then entrepreneurs take on their own responsibility, which they can be really proud of.
i think we can look back with satisfaction on the meetings of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly held last year in bamako and edinburgh respectively. good reports have been adopted and the ability to tackle difficult issues and the quality of political dialogue have further increased. this is important if we are to contribute to strengthening political stability. we do that by strengthening parliaments. but ultimately, cooperation is about development in the acp countries and in this context we want to work from the idea of ownership. the countries themselves are the first to be responsible for their development. we hope, in particular, to further promote good governance, democracy and the protection of human rights through dialogue within the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. i am also pleased that this week - as has already been mentioned - the ep's ad hoc delegation to the pan-african parliament was set up, which can be a complementary instrument. i would like to draw your attention today to two subjects which have been discussed in the past year and will continue to be discussed in the coming year, namely the economic partnership agreements and the reform of the sugar market. these are two issues of great importance both for europe and for the acp countries. we must ensure that both remain focused on strengthening the economic position of the acp countries. good consultation with these countries is crucial. the parliaments of these countries must also be involved. mr president, acp-eu cooperation occupies a special place in the european parliament, because it is a joint parliamentary assembly of 77 meps and 77 members of the national parliaments of the acp countries. we debate together and we adopt resolutions together. that's a unique and precious formula. when it comes to peace and political and economic stability in the countries, we must not only invest financially, but also invest in this kind of contacts, in consultation and dialogue, in order to get to know and understand each other better. we can't invest enough in that. i look forward to the 11th meeting in vienna in june this year and hope that we will have a successful meeting. i thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the pleasant cooperation.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, i am pleased that we are having a serious debate in this parliament today on a subject which has not always been so easily discussed in a discourse on development cooperation. europe is the world's largest donor in terms of quantity, but recently there has been a growing global awareness that the effectiveness of aid is at least as important as the quantity. the 2005 paris declaration on aid effectiveness is an important benchmark for action in this area and the european commission has recently followed up this declaration with a package of measures on aid effectiveness, which we will soon be discussing in the committee on development. my own-initiative report, on which we are voting today, also makes a number of serious recommendations to make aid more effective. good governance free of corruption is an important condition for aid effectiveness. it not only prevents aid money from hanging on the wire. corruption is also a barrier to development and disproportionately burdens the poorest sections of the population. access to essential services, such as basic education and health care, is made more difficult and sometimes even impeded by corruption. corruption is a huge problem all over the world. the world bank estimates that over $1 trillion, or $1,000 billion, is paid in bribes each year. in africa, the poorest continent in the world, an estimated $148 billion, or about 25 percent of africa's gdp, is lost. moreover, corruption is present in all layers of society and involves almost all social actors: the european union is a global player in the field of education and training. good governance and aid effectiveness are the joint responsibility of the donor community and the developing countries. it takes two to tango. that is why my proposals are also about what we can do as the european union, the commission and the member states, preferably in cooperation with the entire international community. my main proposal is to draw up a blacklist of corrupt regimes to which banks and other financial institutions should no longer be able to lend. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. this is how we prevent the people from being the victims of marcos, kabila, abacha or any of their successors. i also propose that a small percentage, half a percent, of the amount paid directly to the government of a country in the form of budgetary sectoral aid, be made compulsory for the watchdogs of civil society organisations. these civil society groups carry out public scrutiny of government revenue and expenditure and the achievement of development goals. there must also be support - and this can be from the same amount - for national parliaments to be able to exercise their control function better together with these watchdogs. a further proposal is to exclude companies involved in corruption in projects in developing countries from european procurement in the future. i would also like to propose that a blacklist be drawn up of these companies. anyone who can show improvement, for example by adjusting management, will be given a second chance and may be removed from the list. finally, all european member states should speed up the ratification of the 2003 un convention against corruption. at present, only two member states have ratified the convention: france and hungary. it's got to be different. this convention is the first international agreement to establish international legal remedies to tackle corruption. i mention the prevention and prosecution of money laundering, the freezing at an early stage of financial assets held in banks abroad and the recovery of these assets in cases of proven corruption. these are some of the proposals i make in my report. of course, these are just a few steps that europe can take in the gigantic problem that corruption poses to society. let us all - the commission, parliament and the member states - make this a priority and not only point the finger at the developing countries, but also put our hand in our own bosom. i am curious to see what the commission's reaction will be to these specific proposals. because remember: it takes two to tango.
mr president, i should like to support the report by mr van den berg. corruption is an obstacle to the optimal efficiency of aid. a proactive approach to corruption is therefore desirable. the report proposes concrete and useful instruments for strengthening the control mechanisms. this will create a better legal framework for the fight against corruption. the legal framework is not the only factor, however. rejection of corruption as a social phenomenon is equally linked to prevailing values in a society. civil society organisations, particularly religious leaders, should therefore be called upon to play their role in promoting good governance and fighting corruption. the debate on this ideal level needs to be strengthened. after all, both donor countries and donors to aid agencies must be able to trust that their funds are being used efficiently for their intended purpose. mr president, an expert whom i consulted on the van den berg report told me the day before yesterday that he hoped the dutch government would apply this excellent report without delay. i can't think of a better compliment to give my colleague.
in writing. on behalf of my group i took part in the negotiations on the compromise resolution on belarus. my advice to sign the resolution was ultimately not followed up. i didn't think all the parts of the wording were ideal either. the essential thing, however, is that the re-election of president lukashenko, which was achieved through intimidation and falsification, should not be recognised by the outside world, that opposition movements and publications should receive outside support, and that students who flee the country should be offered educational opportunities in their own language. i have defended that position before in this house and also in demonstrations outside this house. unfortunately, my group is not in a position to support a resolution of this kind unanimously. the opponents of this resolution are probably right for the time being when they say that of all the former soviet republics, the workers and pensioners in belarus have the greatest security of life. unfortunately, that is only true as long as russia thinks it can keep this country in line by supplying cheap oil. that security of life does not justify dictatorship or electoral fraud. my party, the sp, hates dictatorship. socialism has no future except as a democratic movement, in open competition with other views, and especially not as a dictatorship. i stand by my support for the resolution.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the situation we are discussing here this afternoon is tragic, because recent events have been very bad for turkey and for the kurdish citizens of turkey. let us be clear, the ppk is a terrorist organisation and there is never an excuse for terrorism. i am saying as a parliamentarian that the national parliament of the netherlands fought hard to get the pkk on the terrorist list. there can never be an excuse. however, at the same time, we must ask ourselves whether all the people who are protesting really support violence. many analysts have drawn a completely different conclusion. they say that most kurdish people do not want violence, they just want to have a prosperous future – with economic, social and cultural developments – within the state of turkey. now, more than ever, we need to invest in those people. in parliament’s report adopted at the end of 2004, we pressed for the development of the south east and for more cultural rights for the kurdish people. it must be said that prime minister erdogan has made impressive speeches since that time. however, at this difficult time these words must be followed more than ever by deeds. we must invest socially and economically so that people and their families have a prosperous future, so that they do not want violence for their children. we have to invest in more cultural freedom. if turkish television and radio provided more air time for kurdish programmes, then roj tv in denmark will not be that important any more. indeed, the village guard system should be abolished and displaced people should be helped to return to their home regions. now is the time for wisdom instead of big words. it is time the turkish government tried to find interlocutors who are modest and want peace. i name mr baydemir and mr türk, the co-leader of the dtp. these people must continue to speak out against violence; but if they continue to do so, let the turkish government cooperate with them instead of a minister of the interior threatening to bring them to justice. i think cooperation is the way; wisdom is the way. let us ensure that kurdish citizens feel at home in one turkish state. that is the only solution.
president. - turkey is at the heart of the group of the european socialists. it is therefore heartbreaking to see the country currently plagued by violence. the pse group calls for the violence to be prevented from escalating further. in this context, we welcome the words of prime minister erdoğan, who has indicated that he wants to turn the tide of violence by bringing about more democratic and economic reforms. he has thus extended a hand to the kurdish community, a hand which must be accepted. the pse group also underlines the appeal made by the mayor of diyarbakir to those kurds who use violence to refrain from doing so, because the pse group rejects excessive violence once and for all. if the violence stops, the tanks can and must leave the streets of the towns and villages in the south-east. tanks in the streets is not what people in europe want to see when they think about turkey's possible accession to the european union. i would like to stress that everyone in turkey, including the kurds, benefits from a continuous process towards turkish membership of the european union. the protection and respect of the human rights of all in turkey is an absolute precondition for membership of the european union. we must not allow provocateurs to sabotage the negotiating process before it has even begun. it is unfortunate that the current violence interrupts a period of rapprochement, for progress had already been made. for example, kurdish tv was one of the new measures made possible by the government of turkey. the agreements that existed before the recent violence must be extended and, above all, implemented. paper has to be practical. finally, a few words for the victims. they are to be mourned and rightly mourned. let's prevent more casualties from being caused. make this difficult moment in turkey an opportunity for a new sense of unity in the country, a unity that is sorely needed on the long and difficult road to membership of the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the refugee camps are bombed by mass and chaotic movements of people in need, attacked by the rebels and by the janjaweed, often with horrific stories of looting and rape. a hopeless situation with an african union that is too weak and a sudanese government that seems to support the janjaweed and does not seem to want to give the international legal order, represented by the african union and the united nations, a chance. in this it seems to be supported by china and russia. yesterday it was announced that jan pronk, the un special envoy for darfur, was resigning. if even jan pronk, whom i know as an incorrigible perseverant and optimistic, no longer sees any chance for the peace process, then it is really time to sound the alarm. the european union has the opportunity to show what its role outside europe can be. this week, the 100 days of the genocide in rwanda is being shown in a photo exhibition here. that event is the symbol of the failure of the entire international community. now we are being tested again. china and russia are blocking any action. the african union is still trying to get the sudanese government on board, but it's too little, too late and it's taking too long. now it is up to the european troika to have a real presence with money and support from the african union peacekeeping force with logistical support, access to food aid and protection of civilians. this chaotic killing spree, characterized by an unprecedentedly brutal conflict of interests, must now finally come to an end. the call made today by our parliament in an excellent joint resolution gives a clear direction and impetus to solana, the council, the commission and our governments. the credibility of europe's role in the world is at stake.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and security, on the situation in iraq. we have now had practical experience of whether you can really improve a situation like this through outside intervention. perhaps that is the case for some groups. this applies to the kurds in the north, who had in fact long since seceded from iraq, and also to the political opponents who had fled abroad. for most people, iraq is not their common state but a battleground between foreign interests and the very different group interests and views of shiites, sunnis, kurds and also the pre-islamic christian minorities, who unlike the other groups do not have their own territory as a possible member state in a federation. we fully share mr posselt's concerns about this group. yet, under the present circumstances, no one can offer a real solution. the foreign occupier has further degraded the prison system and allowed the reintroduction of the death penalty, and cannot offer the vast majority of the population any prospects for the future. the resolution rightly identifies a number of errors, but it is far too optimistic and does not really help to solve the problems. it is important to learn that military intervention solves nothing.
author. mr president, egypt's stability has long been based on the model of a one-party state. the party no longer represents a common ideology after the period of president nasser, but only the common interest in the possession of governmental power. outside of this monopoly on state power, individual outsiders can now participate in elections, but only as long as they do not become a threat to that established position of power. this puts opposition candidates at constant risk of harassment, intimidation or imprisonment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the state of emergency declared in 1981 is still an important instrument for the continuation of this situation. this time, former mp and former presidential candidate ayman nour has fallen victim to it. the contribution of the egyptian state to stability in the middle east, and in particular to peaceful coexistence with neighbouring israel since 1978, has led to remarkably little criticism of this situation from the european side. on the contrary, the european union is seeking good cooperation with all the mediterranean coastal states. my group wholeheartedly supports the demand that egypt democratize, end the state of emergency and stop obstructing the opposition.
the central question in this debate is what is the best way to ensure that the reforms, particularly in the field of justice and the fight against corruption and organised crime, continue beyond 2007. what does the commission now think is the best way of ensuring that? what do we think? should we now stick to the 2007 date or should we still postpone accession to 2008? my group is united in its support for enlargement, further enlargement of the european union. it was and it is. if in future countries in the western balkans or turkey meet the conditions, we would welcome them. nevertheless, on that basis, there are two possible answers to that central question. part of my group says that precisely because we are so strongly in favour of enlargement, we must be extra critical and see whether the countries at the beginning of accession actually fulfil the conditions, in order to preserve the credibility of the eu and its enlargement strategy. if we look at romania and bulgaria, with all the differences between them, we must note that at the moment - i stress this - they do not meet a number of the conditions that have been set, and that there is justified scepticism as to whether this will be the case in eight months' time, on 1 january 2007. and that is why part of my group thinks it is justified to keep the pressure on until the very last moment, until 1 january 2008, to ensure that all countries meet those criteria. another part of the group, including myself, thinks that there is a difference between romania and bulgaria. if we look at the last year in bulgaria, we see that reforms are happening superficially, that implementation is weak, that the pace of reforms has slowed down and that some crucial reforms have been implemented at the very last moment. on the other hand, if you look at romania, you can see (not only from us in parliament, but also from the reports of many national and international ngos and experts) that the pace has increased and that there is indeed tangible progress, not only on paper but also in practice. for example, judges and prosecutors finally feel free, free from the burden of political influence. the independence of the fight against corruption is really guaranteed and fortunately a number of cases of high-level corruption have finally been initiated. it is therefore also right to reward this tangible progress in romania by saying that we are sticking to the 2007 accession date but - and i say this to mr neyts - only with a strong monitoring mechanism, not in the general sense as the commissioner has said, but specifically in the areas of justice, reform and the fight against corruption. we believe that it is necessary to look at whether these positive developments will continue after accession and we believe that this could even have financial consequences if this is not the case. the message we want to send to the people of the eu, but also to the candidate countries like croatia and turkey, is that if you really put in the effort to reform, you will be rewarded as a candidate country. on the other hand, if you think the eu will turn a blind eye, you will be punished.
president. - as the representative of two dutch protestant parties, i am strongly attached to the freedom of religion in the accession countries of romania and bulgaria, and in particular to the legal position of churches. in the last quarter, forum 18 news service has published a number of reports on this subject which raise serious concerns about the implementation of this basic political criterion of copenhagen by bucharest and sofia. commissioner, i would like to know your views on the proposed and pending registration requirements for religious associations in romania and bulgaria. my dutch government is opposed to registration requirements, in line with international standards. i do not expect a full answer from you, commissioner, in the context of this debate. i therefore present to you immediately the documents of forum 18 mentioned above. you would be obliging me to include this matter in your mid-may report. i would like to make the same request to you, commissioner, on the lingering question of the restitution of hungarian church property illegally confiscated by the communist romanian authorities during the period 1945-1989. the information i have is that there are a total of 2140 church properties, of which only 54 have been returned to full ownership to date. commissioner, it would be a bad sign if romania joined the union with strained, disturbed relations with its hungarian minority.
mr president, even if the commissioner may have difficulty answering some of the questions because he is still at work, i am sure he will understand the importance of these questions and that we will therefore have the answers on 16 may. as my group chairman has already said, we are assuming, and we hope and expect that the two countries we are talking about today will be able to join on 1 january next year. we have always said that and we also believe that we should not create an atmosphere of competition between romania and bulgaria. that's not the point. what we're talking about now is what needs to be done. but we must also look at what has already been achieved. we have been constantly calling for the past few years that both countries have a lot to do. it is also time to recognize that both countries have done a great deal. and then there is a tail, and the commissioner will report on that in a few weeks. as my colleague has said, we as a group - and mr ferber has apparently done so too - have also been doing a little monitoring of our own. we have been to bulgaria and romania, and in both countries there is a lot of progress. we have the strong impression in all our discussions that both governments, including the bulgarian government, know what needs to be done. i am convinced that the discussions currently under way on a number of problems will also be successfully concluded. that is why i am optimistic about the outcome of 16 may. we also insist that the council should take a decision in june on the basis of the commission's proposals and parliament's opinion. i agree with many of you that work will continue in some areas until the end of the year, that pressure must be maintained on the process and that we cannot exclude the possibility of introducing some safeguard clauses at some point. but i urge both romania and bulgaria to do everything possible to prevent that. in the final analysis, what is decisive for us in the assessment after 16 may is what the commissioner said on 3 april, namely that only if one of the two countries is clearly not prepared in a particular area or in several areas can there be a debate on postponement. i assume that conclusion, those words will not be used in the commissioner's report, but we will have to wait and see. finally, if i may make one further remark, also in connection with the commissioner's opening remark. i would like to draw attention once again to the floods in romania in particular, but also in bulgaria, and call on the commission to do everything possible to help those two countries and also serbia, and also to look at what can be done to prevent such disasters from happening in the future.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, at about three o'clock this afternoon i asked what time i should be speaking and was told that it would be about a quarter to six. it's now quarter to eight. i do not know who had the wisdom to draw up this agenda, but i do not think it is good for parliament that a discharge debate on the european institutions is taking place at this time of day. to move on to the agenda and to go straight to the door: discharge to the commission in respect of the 2004 financial year. i recommend that this house grant discharge. this is a surprise, because as everyone knows and many people will probably say, the european court of auditors has not issued a statement of assurance on the commission's policies for eleven years in a row. why give a discharge? i have two arguments in favour of this. firstly, this commission has been in office for about one month in 2004 and secondly, this commission has started very ambitiously in order to obtain a positive declaration of assurance. i'll get back to you on that. it is a pity that terry wynn is not here, but i would like to start with the resolution he passed last year, which introduced some new elements. the most important element was that we felt that the highest political authority in each member state should make a statement at the beginning and end of each financial year that everything was in order as far as political control was concerned. this demand of parliament has met with great resistance in the member states, and that is regrettable. in the meantime, a few things have happened. we have concluded an interinstitutional agreement and in it we have reached a compromise with the council, in which we say that it does not matter whether it is at the highest political level or not. we also accept a declaration at a certain level appropriate to that in each member state, provided that such a declaration is made. my question to the commission is what it is going to do about the interinstitutional agreement. secondly, there have been a number of developments in the meantime, namely that some countries now say they object to this. what is the commission doing with this attitude? i have the impression that more and more countries are joining in. i have to say this to all of you. it is never the member states alone that are responsible. it is always the european commission which has the ultimate responsibility. we should welcome the commission's action plan. it is good that there are common standards, that there is integrated control, that there is better cooperation with the national audit bodies, and so on. and we would also appreciate it in another respect if the commission would indicate risk areas in the budget, namely what are high risk areas and low risk areas. it is therefore important that member states assume political responsibility. we are asking the commission to do the same. it's not just the ceo who has to sign off on the financial statements. we believe that the commissioner responsible for a particular policy should also sign it. i have to go through the points quickly because the clock is ticking. the president of the european court of auditors published his annual report again in november and made an interesting suggestion. he suggested that a peer review should take place, that former presidents of national audit bodies should look at whether the methodology and the way the european court of auditors works is correct or not. we think this is important, we welcome it and we would like to cooperate with the european court of auditors on this. there is still more work to be done for the european court of auditors. the discharge report specifically requests two reports. firstly, the management of the money which the european union gives to united nations bodies. what is the added value for europe if we give the money through the united nations? and secondly, how is the financial control there? we also want the non-governmental organizations to be subject to an inquiry by the court of auditors. how much non-governmental is there to these non-governmental organizations? how much money do they have? finally, the next few years will be crucial for the commission. there has to be a positive reliability statement sometime. i would like to thank the members of the cocobu secretariat for their great efficiency and competence, and of course also my personal staff.
mr president, the risk of debates like this is always that members start repeating what others have said. so firstly let me start by repeating the criticism that a number of members of this house have made concerning the timing of this debate. it is a scandal that we are not having this debate at a time that would do justice to the importance of the reports that we are discussing. i would like to agree with mr staes in saying that mr ferber’s report was excellent. the pse group has absolutely no problems with the report as it is presented right now. it calls for an assistants’ statute and a dialogue with the bureau about their political role: these are all things that we welcome. however, i think that we will see an overwhelming majority from all the political groups behind his proposal not to grant discharge tomorrow, and i welcome that. it is only right. it is only right that we will not grant discharge to a report that would say that it is ok that we pay x amount of rent that we now all know is probably too high. in fact i do not agree with the members that said that the press statement that strasbourg sent out today is only adding to the lack of clarity. it is very clear what they are saying. it says here on the second page of the press statement that they need money for services rendered and that there is a risk of the building at one point being empty and that risk needs to be financed. i am sorry, but where was the invoice for this? we are the budgetary control committee! we are supposed to check these things, so that is what we are going to be doing. another paragraph states that julian priestley’s decision to stop paying the rent is actually a breach of the contract. i would like to see the contract which states that what we have been paying is the right amount of money. if it is not the right amount of money, it is only right that we have this committee of inquiry. therefore i welcome the decision to start this working party. i also agree with mr stubb that it is not a discussion about strasbourg as our seat, but we all know that it will at some point become a discussion about our seat. we should all keep cool heads, but my opinion about that latter issue is clear to everybody in this room that wants to know.
i would like to add my support to the words of appreciation which mr wynn has spoken to mr mulder on his report for 2004. he made a number of recommendations which could improve the discharge. first of all, he has tabled an amendment to allow the european commission to cut back on those countries which do not pay the agricultural premiums properly. i would like to hear the commission's answer to that. and i must say that my delegation will vote for the amendment. the second strong point in his report is that he wants the member states' finance ministers to sign for the expenditure themselves. we wholeheartedly support that. that is the only way to ensure that we get to an adequate settlement and discharge of the european budget and on that point we also have a great deal of appreciation for his report. another point is the discharge of parliament and the debate that has arisen around strasbourg. it is not unknown that the whole debate on the european budget in the netherlands is strongly influenced by the fact that we still have three places where parliament meets or has offices. we are shocked by what has happened in strasbourg. once again, it needs to be clarified and i am sure that our rapporteur, mr markus ferber, will succeed in doing so. but this shows all the more that we are the only parliament in the world which has offices or meets in three places. the only thing! and if we want to be taken seriously by the people of europe, we have to go to one place. for that reason alone, the cda believes that we should not buy any buildings until we have the council to the point where we can put everything in one place. and whether that is strasbourg, luxembourg or brussels, let us discuss that. i am not saying that we should blame one and not the other, but this is the moment to make that choice and that is why we think that, with regard to the markus ferber sub-report, the mulder report on the purchase of a building, even if it can be earned back within ten years, now is not the right time, because we want to force the council to take a decision first.
rapporteur. – mr president, i have just one additional question: is the commissioner aware of the statement by a number of member states in which they express their reservations about the agreement in the interinstitutional agreement that we concluded? what does he think the consequences of that statement will be and how will the commission deal with that?
- i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, let me begin by expressing my support for the commission's approach that you have proposed, namely less but better state aid. i shall continue to praise the commission throughout my speech, but i am afraid i must begin by making one small criticism. i find it regrettable that the commission is already putting forward proposals, even if they are only draft proposals, a week before the european parliament votes on our position and our recommendations. i think that if we consider each other as allies in the fight for a stronger economy, we should also cooperate in that sense and respect each other. i therefore assume that even if we now come up with proposals, they will still be taken into consideration. the core message of the report, which we hope will be adopted tomorrow, is that state aid must remain the exception. it is a tool to correct where the market is not delivering the desired results. state aid is not a standard policy instrument with which the public can create innovation, so to speak, and it should not be a remedy for our failure to implement structural reforms. all studies show that state aid is not the decisive factor in business decisions and state aid is not the main competitive factor. it is much more important that we create favourable conditions for innovation, experimentation, risk-taking and above all for investment. because the investors will come out of the market if there is money to be made and if the barriers are removed. that means that we must work towards a good patent system, fair competition and free trade in the internal market, and in this connection i also regret - i will say this again - that we have not succeeded in opening up the market for services. we need to work on an immigration policy that will keep the best people in europe and attract talent from outside. we need to work on a good supply of financial services, a well-educated workforce, and so on. state aid can indeed distort the market to the extent that it actually hinders innovation developments. the balancing test proposed in your document seems to me to be a good instrument. the emphasis on evaluating the results of past aid is also in line with parliament's position, which is also taken up in my colleague mr hökmark's report. and i am actually curious to hear what the commission will think about state aid being granted in cases where there is a clear need for structural reforms, but where the member states simply fail to do so. i would draw a parallel here with an initiative which i myself find rather absurd, and that is the globalisation fund. if we fail to make the european union competitive, we should not try to find a remedy. an interesting example in this context is that just today the government of one of the large member states is announcing a new injection of €600 million for innovation - which is very welcome in itself - and that on the same day the oecd is issuing a rather critical report on the results of the previous support programme of that same large member state. i highly recommend its reading. i am very pleased that the commission's proposals, as parliament will also recommend, also include non-technological innovation, because that is absolutely a very important development in our service economy. but as far as the practical effects and criteria are concerned, the rules seem to be very much based on innovation in the technological sectors, and i would therefore like to insist that the rules for non-technological innovation are also workable. i also expressed my concern - we met yesterday - about the so-called matching clause. it is indeed written in the text - i have just checked it - that the percentage of aid authorized may be increased if a competitor from a non-eu country receives more subsidies. i think that this is a very important point. because if we have a matching clause for state aid, then i would like to have one for all those other policy areas that i have just mentioned, which are much more important competitive factors. large companies are also a point of discussion and i see that there are all sorts of precautions so that we do not subsidize individual large companies, but i still see a small point of concern. i see in the proposals that the large companies can get a so-called top up, a so-called bonus of 15% aid intensity if two or more large companies cooperate across borders. i'll round off, chairman. could that mean we're going to subsidize multinationals? i don't think that's the point. i'll leave it at that, because i've already used up my time.
it is good that we are speaking today on this important subject. unfortunately, when it comes to innovation, we in europe are still lagging behind our competitors and it is therefore good that the commission in its plans for reform of state aid policy places great emphasis on measures, especially for smes, to boost innovation and innovative entrepreneurship in the european union. the report by mr int'l'feld, our colleague and rapporteur, which is before us, has the full support of the ppe-de and i thank the rapporteur for her good report and also for the good cooperation. the basic principles on the basis of which and the groups for which aid for innovation can be granted are clearly stated in the report. we know that you, commissioner, always take the views of this parliament very seriously. and that is why, despite your statement, i am still unpleasantly surprised, with the in t'feld committee, by the fact that the european commission presented the preliminary framework last week. it was for the informal council, but you would have been disappointed if you had formally postponed that consultation in order to take account of parliament's opinion. that would have only delayed it by a few weeks. there are a number of points in the report which i would urge you to take into account and give greater weight to. and fortunately two of those points have been on the table today, so we must finally agree on the substance. i am particularly concerned with the contribution of large companies and, as you say, of course, in the context of clusters. but we should not underestimate their innovative power and the support that may be required in cluster terms. i would also like to emphasize non-technological innovation again and, thirdly and lastly, that there should also be more clarity on the way in which state aid applies to universities and research institutions.
the need to agree on ecall at european level is great, mr president, because only a standardised system can guarantee assistance in the event of accidents abroad. and in view of the still increasing international traffic, this is of great importance. the ecall system can make an important contribution to reducing the number of road deaths in europe, in addition to 112, but member states will have to speed up its implementation. that is true of the 112 system, but it is certainly true of the ecall system. my colleagues have already raised this issue. fortunately, the netherlands can be a good example here because they do make sails, but we must of course do it all over europe. the cost of the ecall system should not be excessive for its successful implementation. the cost savings can be achieved by making the most of the possibilities of the technology, without, of course, jeopardizing the emergency response function. i therefore think it is a missed opportunity that parliament does not explicitly recognise the need for a so-called open platform structure, which would allow every motorist to call emergency services via the ecall technology, for example. in such a case, service providers could pay for the use of the technical infrastructure and thus the costs could be shared more. i very much hope that the member states will allow the wide range of uses of this technology to be exploited, again, of course, without compromising safety. i welcome the broad call from this parliament to the member states to speed up and we will be following this closely from parliament in the coming days.
rapporteur. – mr president, i do not know whether you want me to read my oral amendments now or after paragraph 5, but i would like to have the opportunity to present two oral amendments.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to add a new paragraph 5a to read: ‘expects that the results of the review of unknown bank accounts related to commission activities launched by the commission in october 2005 will be made known completely to parliament and be followed up’. and paragraph 5b: ‘expects that the accounts thereby established will be audited and the funds credited to the accounts will be entered in the general budget’.
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to move an oral amendment which is a merger of the original amendment 1 and the text as adopted in committee. the paragraph would then read as follows: ‘regards large companies as an essential component of the innovation system; considers, however, that state aid to large companies is appropriate for encouraging cooperation within innovation clusters and poles of excellence (large companies, smes and knowledge centres), provided that they meet the criteria of the ex ante rules.’
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to add two words to amendment 2, namely ‘and smes’, so that the first line would read ‘agrees that state aid should be allocated on the basis of criteria favouring innovative start-ups and smes’, etc.
in writing. a possible decision to change the name of the parliament's delegation for exchanges with the iranian parliament is far too far-reaching to be voted on now without proper preparatory discussion. if we use that name to express the fact that iran today calls itself an islamic republic, it could mean that this parliament is not interested in having contacts with iran under a different regime. nevertheless, the coming of that other regime is likely and also desirable. the current regime threatens its own people with death sentences and restrictions of liberty, while the outside world is threatened with the development of nuclear weapons and the denial of israel's right to exist. the regime believes in everything that the pursuit of democracy and human rights opposes. adjustment to that regime is no more a solution than seeking war with it. the only improvement is that the iranian opposition, some of whom are living in exile in europe, should be given the chance to govern their country in a normal way. in the meantime, there is no reason to acquiesce to the wishes of the present regime, which regards the present state structure as eternal and god-given.
in writing. the financial management carried out by the european commission in 2004 gives me and my colleague mr bas belder sufficient grounds to call for a delay in granting discharge. first, it must be clear what the commission intends to do about the problems of the opening balance. in addition, the delay in the development, application and enforcement of internal control standards is undesirable. thirdly, the commission should put forward a roadmap with target dates for the achievement of a positive trustworthiness statement. fourthly, the amount of prefinancing outstanding is intolerably high. it is not clear to us how and when the commission intends to see this problem resolved. finally, it is incomprehensible that the member state greece still receives all agricultural subsidies, while it has not fulfilled the requirement to fully implement the cfsp for more than ten years.
in writing. my colleague hans blokland and i voted against giving the president of the european parliament a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the year 2004. the dislocation of parliament in strasbourg leads to a great deal of misunderstanding among the electorate, although parliament itself is involved in this with the consequences of a decision of the european council. we believe that the overpaid rent of 10% of the annual rent should be recovered from the strasbourg city council. this is a sine qua non condition for the granting of a discharge.
in writing. since 1999, all dutch members have undertaken not to participate in the pension fund. this is because, on the one hand, participation gives rise to a right to a double pension and, on the other hand, the pension premium is largely - or in practice even entirely - paid by parliament. it is extremely regrettable that the european parliament will be responsible for the shortfalls which have now arisen from mismanagement of the members' pension fund. in this way the taxpayers are turning a blind eye to the irresponsible behaviour of their elected representatives, who are primarily seeking to enrich themselves excessively. i am even more disappointed that the justified criticism of the pension fund, which was included in the original version of the ferber report, has been largely removed by the committee on budgetary control. the commission has failed completely as a monitoring body. that is why i shall not vote for this discharge.
in writing. this week it became known that the european parliament has probably been paying too much rent for 25 years for the use of the buildings in strasbourg, which is structurally unfair. that was the reason for postponing the approval of the annual accounts until this matter has been fully investigated. i think that is very right. at the same time, a similar issue is at stake in the committee of the regions. there have also been financial irregularities here and there is also an investigation under way. i therefore find it incomprehensible that a majority now seems to be willing to approve these accounts while a fraud investigation is still in progress and therefore far from all the facts are known. i am also very concerned that a majority of the committee on budgetary control has rejected a planned hearing on the irregularities in the committee of the regions. it now seems that parliament only cares about financial irregularities when it is its own money that is at stake. it is money that all europeans must raise together to do useful work, and that money must not be wasted. i shall therefore vote against the adoption of the committee of the regions' annual accounts.
the dutch press has been paying attention to the vulnerable position of mrs kroes, member of the european commission, for the past two weeks. in 2004, she was interviewed by this parliament. the main issue was some of her business contacts with entrepreneurs who seek to increase their profits by breaking the law or by knowingly acting against the public interest. mrs kroes then replied that she had learned from her past mistakes. prior to any appointment, it would have already terminated all its business interests and relationships. this commitment was one of the reasons why she was finally accepted by a majority of parliament as a candidate. it has now been established that until 2006 it was dependent on a guarantee for loss-making office buildings worth eur 7 million which it owned in two dutch cities. the guarantee on these office buildings, and as it turned out, her private residence, was provided by someone who has now been re-arrested as the possible financial mastermind behind a very violent crime syndicate that has murder on its conscience. how is parliament informed about this and how can parliament express its views on the risks and consequences?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). it concerns 175 villages, most of which are under water. tens of thousands of people are on the run. suriname is a country which is part of the acp countries with which we as europe have a relationship through the cotonou convention. poverty reduction and school education are seriously compromised. last week i asked the european commission to provide help through echo emergency aid. i would ask you to express our sympathy on behalf of our parliament to the people of suriname and to the parliament of suriname for the suffering of the surinamese people.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to reply on behalf of the commission in the same constructive spirit as the rapporteur has just spoken and say: the most important thing about this project is that the institutions work closely together. i am very grateful to you, mrs kaufmann, for saying that from a political point of view this is a project which parliament fully supports. i know that from the debate we had earlier, but the confirmation was important. i'm also happy to admit that the test run we're talking about today was workable. the commission will certainly take up a number of suggestions you have made in your report. i think we will have no grounds for complaint in future cooperation on this matter. but i would like to describe again what we actually did. the legislative procedures under way have been examined in the light of the new aspects and priorities which have emerged in the meantime. what happened in the meantime? the commission's work is focused on a strategy for growth and employment, and we wanted to know whether the proposals on the table are in line with the objectives and priorities of that strategy for growth and employment. as you know, mrs kaufmann, the problem with a whole series of these proposals was that there had been no impact assessment at all, although there were massive economic implications of individual proposals. that's the second argument. the commission had already decided last year that it would no longer submit proposals without a comprehensive impact assessment tool, backed up by methodological guarantees. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. and finally, the question was: does a proposal have any chance of being accepted? i am at the point you have rightly raised. there have been some proposals on which parliament does not share the commission's view, for example on the legal status of mutual societies. these proposals have been in the council for 12 years without the slightest change. there is no indication that the council intends to deal with these proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has announced, in the very cases where parliament has expressed its concerns, that it will examine the underlying issues in detail - i recognise the social importance of these issues - and that it will then, if necessary, make new proposals which have a chance of actually being dealt with in due course. as regards the question of justification, i agree with you. i do not see this as a political or legal problem. the commission was given detailed reasons for each proposal when it took its decision. i cannot explain to you why these particular reasons have not been put to the house. i didn't have the slightest problem doing that. i have also personally handed over the individual explanations to the rapporteurs of the political groups. so we will certainly be able to take these proposals into account. it is important to me - and i want to make this clear - that the rapporteur states that withdrawing proposals is part of the exercise of the right of initiative. the commission is also open in principle to its proposal that in future the annual legislative and work programme should take into account whether and, if so, which proposals the commission intends to withdraw, so that it can be prepared in good time. i think that's a very reasonable suggestion. i hope you can see from my reaction that i don't think we should be having a debate about principles here. i'm happy to admit that things could have gone better at one point or another. it is important to me that we work together to make the political project a success, and i can only agree with the rapporteur that this is what the citizens of europe expect from us. they do not expect deregulation, they do not expect a reduction in rights and guarantees, but they do expect clear, simple, understandable and manageable european legislation. that is what we are going to do together.
i would like to make two comments on mr kaufmann's report, which i can broadly support. first of all, i would like to point out the need to check the commission's legislative proposals not only against the principle of better regulation and the lisbon agenda, but also against subsidiarity. i know that there is a growing aversion to this concept in this house, but that does not change the fact that european legislation must have a clear added value over national legislation. i believe that the fight against overregulation at european level is an important part of the drive towards a better and simplified community legislative environment. my second comment concerns the role of national parliaments. i support the initiative of commission president barroso to send new legislative proposals to the national parliaments. subsidiarity can be carefully tested in the member states. this will certainly increase the support for european legislation in the member states.
i would like to thank mrs poli bortone for her report. i think we have reached a very good compromise with her, with each other and with the council. i also thank mrs sommer and the other groups who have worked on this. many consumers are concerned about their health and cholesterol, blood pressure or struggle with excess weight. the food industry is playing on this. there's a proliferation of all kinds of claims. this morning i had a sandwich that's good for my gut flora, buttered with butter that lowers my cholesterol, and a little egg that's high in omega-3. fine... i guess, because i don't know. consumers do not know whether the claims made by manufacturers are true and therefore it is very important that this bill requires that the health claims made by food manufacturers must be scientifically substantiated. we must prevent consumers from being misled. consumers are often willing to pay more for a product that claims to do something for their health. but then the consumer must be able to trust that it is true. misleading advertising is already prohibited, but the burden of proof has been on the authorities. in practice, of course, that doesn't work. governments can't spend all day chasing claims or packaging and then try to prove that they're wrong. this proposal has helped consumers. in all 25 countries, manufacturers must now provide honest information. in the first reading parliament gave in to the pressure of companies which were afraid of being exposed, companies which deliberately mislead consumers by misrepresenting the facts, and which can in no way count on my sympathy. no profit on the backs of people who are worried about their weight or their health. the internal market must not be a free-for-all for misleading consumers. fortunately, the compromise broadly recognises this. deception comes in many forms. article 4 states that health claims may only be made on products meeting a certain profile. and, mrs. sommer, those nutritional profiles are real. they exist in the united states, all the big companies are working with them, and it's working very well. it is also right that nutrition claims should only be made on products that are in principle healthy. because the fat burger doesn't get healthy by adding a little bit of vitamins to it. the sugary lollipop is not going to be a healthy food with vitamin a either. the compromise is against health claims on alcohol. nutrition claims on alcohol may only be made if they are reduced in alcohol or calories. when you look at all the problems with alcoholism, liver damage and brain damage, it's hard to justify health claims about alcohol. fortunately, all parties were willing to support this proposal in the end. the first reading showed that the proposal is unnecessarily bureaucratic. that was the view of our group, but we wanted to ensure that there were adequate safeguards for proper procedures. we've reached that point. for claims directed at children and for claims relating to reduced disease risk, a cumbersome authorisation procedure applies. our group stands with the consumers and with the benevolent companies. this legislation ensures fair information to consumers. i hope and expect that this legislation will contribute to better nutrition and better health. thank you for your attention.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health claims are not used in the same way as the products. the persistent lobby of the food and drink industry in particular seems to have been less effective this time. or are members simply ashamed of the fact that the council was for once more progressive than parliament? the compromise proposal now before us has some good points. banning health claims on alcohol is clearly a win. the nutrition profiles are back, and hopefully, at least, they'll prevent the most outrageous health claims. unfortunately, consumer protection against false claims will be far from watertight. there are still many loopholes in the law that allow for unfair child support claims. i also have serious doubts about the very influential position that the efsa is going to take. the independence of the efsa is regularly called into question. i think that in other dossiers such as gmos and aspartame the efsa is very quick to adopt the industry's position without hesitation. but, imperfect as this proposal is, it is at least considerably better than the sad result at first reading. moreover, without compromise, we risk dragging this case out for years. it is unacceptable that consumers should not be given clarity for so long. my group will therefore support the compromise proposal.
i would like to thank mr scheele and mrs poli bortone for their contribution to the conclusion of both agreements. as regards the report on additives, i regret that this agreement prevents a real debate in the house on the usefulness and necessity of certain additives. the use of certain substances has been clearly demonstrated, but i have my doubts about the addition of fluoride, for example. that is one of the reasons why some of my group will not support this agreement. i would also like to say on the subject of food and health claims that i will agree with the outcome of the negotiations. the amendment by this house at first reading has already improved many points in the common position. i would point out that companies can apply in their own member state and that the deadlines have been shortened. i would like to ask commissioner kyprianou what time the european commission expects to have to draw up the nutritional profiles and what role it thinks the european parliament could play in this. in conclusion, i would like to say that i fully support the agreement on food claims and hope that it can be properly worked out in the member states so that consumers can enjoy good protection.
the compromise reached between parliament and the council is not perfect, but i can support it. it is much less bureaucratic than the original proposal, without prejudice to consumer protection. consumers are given proper information, but not handed it. names like "cough drop" or "cough candy" can survive, for everyone understands that these sweets do not cure coughs instantly and forever. consumers should be able to rely on the fact that nutrition and health claims are genuinely true and scientifically substantiated. research has shown that 53% of consumers trust nutrition claims. we have removed unnecessary bureaucracy from the regulation without affecting consumer protection. this enables the consumer to make an informed choice. but at the same time, the baker on the corner can just go on promoting his high-fiber sandwich without having to go through an age-long authorization process.
i would like to thank commissioner borg very warmly for the excellent cooperation and also for the way in which we were able to examine the technical possibilities. i shall come back to some of the comments on amendments. i would like to speak first about the intention of this debate. the debate on the regulation on the restoration of the status quo shows that the european parliament can legislate in areas where it has only the right to give its opinion. although inland fishing is formally a matter for the member states and not for the european union, in close cooperation with my colleagues in the european parliament and with the european commissioner for fisheries, mr borg, we have managed to give the eel a literal helping hand. the special thing is that the eel is both a saltwater and a freshwater fish. the regulation of fisheries at sea is a matter for the eu, but on rivers and inside dikes it is a matter for the member states. in this way, the eel was literally stranded for years. the necessary regulation, both at european and national level, was not in place and the needle kept slipping through the net of the legislator. the decline in the standard of living, however, has been dramatic. the number of young eels at sea, the so-called glass eel, has declined by more than 95% over the last half-century. and for the adult eel, this is not much better: there's only 25% left. it is therefore five to twelve for the european aal and a broad and integrated approach is badly needed. and for that reason i also thank commissioner borg for having translated the owninitiative report of the european parliament very quickly into a proposal for a regulation. the only way to bring about a change is to bring about a united approach by all those involved, the commercial fishermen, the sport fishermen, regional and national authorities, environmental and nature protection organisations. it is therefore unique that the new approach to the conservation of eel is supported by all these parties in the following way. to restore the status quo, the fishing for eel is to be halved. however, instead of this halving - which in practice would often mean closure - member states can also draw up a management plan for the recovery of the eel. they can do this for the whole territory, for a region or for the catchment area of a river. and this management plan can be the ultimate collaboration between all parties involved. so it is not a top-down approach from brussels or from the capitals of the member states, but a bottom-up approach involving citizens and outsiders. this approach can regulate the export of glassware and can be used in particular for european rivers, canals and lakes. the recovery plan also provides a huge incentive to increase the use of technical measures, such as hydroelectric power stations, locks and dikes, to ensure that fishing is not hindered. the broad support from north to south in the european parliament's committee on fisheries is key to successful decision-making in the european fisheries council. if the european commission adopts the proposed amendments of parliament, as commissioner borg has already indicated on a number of points, a successful decisionmaking process can be ensured with a wide support - from sweden to spain - from fishermen, sport fishermen and environmental organisations. that means that the commission and the council must not let this unique opportunity pass. i am particularly grateful to the commissioner for accepting a large number of amendments. i also thank him for the initiatives he has taken with his colleague mr mandelson, particularly in relation to international trade policy, to make it possible to regulate not only the catches of glass eel but also the exports in this area. this opens up prospects for the use of the glasshouse, including in european waters, and it also makes it possible to restore the commitment to sustainability. the commissioner rightly pointed out that parliament had removed a specific sustainability criterion in an amendment and he indicated that he wished to examine with the technical specialists how to arrive at an objective method of measurement. i welcome that, because that is also the spirit that has lived in this parliament. but the specific figure of 40% in particular has caused problems here and there and perhaps regional differences in this area can also be taken into account. in short, i am glad that the commissioner has accepted a large number of amendments. and as far as trade policy and a number of other areas are concerned, i am convinced that we must now succeed in getting things back to a much better state in the european union in five or ten years' time. this will benefit everyone, not just the citizens but also the fisheries, the sport fishermen and all those who care about the eel. i thank my colleagues once again for the excellent cooperation in the preparation of this report and i look forward to the further debate and also the vote on my report.
mr president, fisheries agreements must be used to promote sustainable fishing. unfortunately, that is not always the case. the 22 trawlers that are authorized are also subject to questioning under this agreement. but this agreement is more limited than the previous one, which ran until 1999, and it excludes a number of vulnerable fish species, especially octopus and crustaceans. there is more emphasis on small-scale fishing, and that is important. the agreement with morocco will contribute to the sustainable management of scarce fish stocks and will be based on the principle of maximum sustainable yield. that is very good, of course, but unfortunately parliament can hardly assess all this at the moment when we are giving our opinion on the new agreement with morocco. we have no access to the commission's ex ante evaluation. i support the rapporteur's amendments which call for more information both on the fish stocks and on the way in which the agreement benefits the parties concerned. but i also strongly urge that in future parliament should have timely access to these evaluations or impact assessments so that we can give our informed opinion. and then, of course, there is the question of western sahara. the report is incomplete on this point. the agreement is not limited to the moroccan coastal waters but also applies to the waters belonging to the western sahara. although a joint committee should ensure that the people of western sahara will benefit from this agreement, it is still a question whether the saharawi people will actually benefit from it. at least that's not clear in the agreement. we should state unequivocally that this agreement will only concern the moroccan coastal waters. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
mr president, this is not the first time that this house has debated the future of europe. the contribution of the european commission to the european council of june 2006, which we are discussing this morning, unfortunately offers little analysis. i have one comment and three recommendations. the loss of sovereignty was one of the main reasons for the dutch "no". the commissioner has been informed of this by a report of his own. it is incomprehensible that the commission should then try to extend the european union's powers in the area of freedom, security and justice through the back door. i support the extension of the period of reflection, provided that it reflects on the future of europe. the text of the constitution must be abandoned and a rearrangement of the existing treaties must lead to a handy institutional framework. this framework - call it a basic treaty - must favour concrete policies over the creation of new institutions such as an eu foreign minister. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we are not going to get anywhere with that, it will not impress the dutch voters and my dutch colleagues know that too.
the debate on the future of europe will continue for some time, mr president. in fact, the debate on the course and policy of the european union is a permanent fact. and the commission rightly points out that plan d is not linked exclusively to the debate on the constitutional treaty, important as that is. it is a first exercise in a more open, more active european communication. more and better communication is an essential precondition for successful european cooperation. last week the commission presented the first results of operation plan d, which i warmly welcome. the commission clearly indicates the concrete actions taken and by this alone it points out the importance of a clear message. at the same time, we must be careful not to fall into the trap of communicating for the sake of communicating. less is often more in communication. moreover, the way you talk is only one of the two components of successful communication. we must also ask ourselves what exactly we want to say about the future of europe and, above all, how that message relates to the actions that the european union is taking. the information which has been produced by the european commission's activities so far is very interesting in this respect, and i refer to the eurobarometer. the surveys show that europeans have high expectations of the european union in many areas and the conclusion is therefore inevitable that a negative vote on the eu is at least partly prevented by the fact that the european union is not performing as it should. i therefore welcome the commission's focus on a concrete policy agenda. but does that sufficiently reflect the context in which we must operate? i have a few notes. firstly, the citizens' agenda must be sufficiently substantial to meet the expectations of our citizens to some extent. has the commission gone far enough in this respect or has it only looked at policies already in the pipeline? we must not only look at expectations - as the commission has clearly done - but also at the experience of the citizens. should we not also investigate the way in which citizens experience europe and ask ourselves whether we can make a positive contribution to everyday life with the citizens' agenda? secondly, such an agenda creates expectations and we will have to live up to them. because if we say loudly and clearly what we want to do and then do not do it, it will only contribute to a negative vote on the european union and that brings me to my final point. that is the question of the direction of the debate on the future of europe in the various member states. the commission has been able to identify the issues that are more common among europeans with the results of the eurobarometer survey, but how does it assess the state of play in all these national debates on european cooperation, its course and the constitution? is there a certain convergence or are we still as far along as we were in july 2005? all the institutions have a role to play, but i would like to point out to the council, especially as a member of parliament, its special responsibility, the responsibility for implementing a substantial policy agenda which is necessary to get citizens behind the european project.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport of goods by road is not subject to excessive congestion. the white paper on transport rightly mentions the transition of goods transport from road to rail and inland waterway as an important objective. this must continue after the upcoming update of the white paper. because without a modal shift, our transport cannot meet the demands of sustainability. the fact that the ambitions of marco polo ii have been significantly reduced from eur 740 million to eur 400 million until 2013 may hamper and delay the achievement of this objective. nevertheless, my group still believes that the programme before us is of great importance in improving the environment and curbing the totally uncontrolled growth of road transport. my group supports the extension of the programme to surrounding countries outside the european union and also the additional attention to shifting more freight transport, which is still taking place along coastal roads, to motorways by sea. at least as important is the reduction of unnecessary transport by better logistical coordination. the number of kilometres travelled can be reduced by avoiding idling, by reducing the distances between the different stages of machining as much as possible and by making the best use of cargo space. we have always advocated the principle of transport avoidance introduced here. the reduction of the thresholds for subsidies will create additional bureaucratic burdens. although the proposed volume equivalents are a good complement to the calculation of tonne-kilometres saved, the coefficient of 1 to 1 applied for this purpose may lead to all applications being submitted in volume units in future, as this is more favourable to undertakings.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programme is not only accessible to small businesses, but also to smes. since the transport sector is home to a large number of these types of companies, this is a significant gain. the main reasons for this are the pooling of projects and the reduction of financial and administrative burdens. the only fundamental objection i have to this programme is that there is no evaluation of marco polo i. the absence of such an evaluation means that it is not possible at this stage to say whether marco polo ii will have the desired effect, simply because the relationship between objective and resources used is unknown. i am therefore glad that there will be an evaluation next year. i hope that the findings will strengthen the design and implementation of the programme. i would like to conclude by thanking the rapporteur for the result achieved. i will certainly support it.
first of all, mr president, i would like to congratulate mr rack on the agreement reached at first reading and thank him for the way in which he has achieved this wonderful result. with great perseverance, he has made this a success. because let's count our blessings. despite the lingering perils of the financial perspective, the amount available for this new marco polo programme is eur 400 million, double the amount available annually now. it is to be commended that the commission has extended the scope of marco polo ii in its proposal to motorways of the sea actions and transport reduction and that there are also more opportunities for inland navigation, so that now a whole range of alternative and environmentally friendly means of transport can contribute to promoting modal shift through this programme. i am glad that parliament has been able to make some important improvements to the proposed programme in the negotiations with the council. firstly, the thresholds for granting aid are substantially reduced and often even halved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am also pleased that inland navigation has been given a more important position than in the original proposal. thirdly, it is good that public bodies such as regional and local authorities can also be part of consortia. this too can provide a backstop for small businesses. the commission has undertaken to examine the possibility of granting aid to small infrastructure projects for modal shift actions. and small improvements like the construction of quay walls can be crucial to the success of those modal shift actions. i would therefore ask you to inform us of the results of the study and whether you are really going to include this possibility of small infrastructure projects in the programme. finally, a practical point. the commission has made the reduction of administrative burdens and the improvement of regulation a major theme in its policy programme. however, in practice, the explanatory notes required of project proposers are so extensive that they often do not even begin. i hope that the amendments tabled by parliament through the rapporteur will lead to improvements and encourage businesses in this area too. but, finger on the pulse, your services will have to be accessible and helpful to those who want to apply for projects.
i would like to thank the commission for responding positively to the initiative proposal of the committee on fisheries, so that the european union's trade policy will also be adjusted so that we can finally implement a sustainability policy ourselves, also in our export policy for fishery products. secondly, this proposal at least gives all the regions of europe and civil society organisations room to implement the policy and that will also be reflected in the commission proposal and perhaps also in the council decision. i thank the commission for that attitude.
the two dutch protestant parties which i am allowed to represent in this house have consistently advocated the healing of the post-war division of europe. at the same time, we have always been in favour of a solid enlargement of the european union, and therefore of a clear respect for the accepted accession criteria, the well-known copenhagen criteria. we were struck by the fall-back of romania and bulgaria in 2004 in the biggest enlargement in the union's history. after the revolution of the european year of miracles 1989, the ecclesial and social contacts between our supporters and the two candidate countries were strengthened. we were able to gain a certain understanding of the 2004 postponement. what is the situation now with regard to the two accession dates of 1 january 2007 and 1 january 2008? as i said, my party is in favour of a solid accession of sofia and bucharest, that is to say on the basis of separate assessments of bulgaria and romania. the word 'solid' means facts, actual steps towards reform, not intentions. finally, the council and the commission did not add two specific safeguard clauses to the three usual ones in the accession treaties with bulgaria and romania for nothing. that is the message we are sending to the commission. i would like to see a clear signal in october on the accession readiness of bulgaria and romania as of 1 january 2007, because clarity is in the interests of all parties in europe.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i agree with the commission's conclusion on romania. indeed, substantial progress has been made in this area over the past year and it is therefore justified that it should become a member in 2007. it is therefore wise to carry out a sort of final check in the autumn and it is therefore very wise to keep a close watch on the progress we have seen after accession. although i don't think the penalties for not going forward are very impressive. i also agree with the commission's reports on bulgaria, because they show that there is no substantial progress but a lot of substantial problems, particularly in the fight against organised crime and the fight against corruption. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i do not yet agree with the commission's conclusion on bulgaria. i think it is wrong to link romania and bulgaria together and to say that 2007 is also possible for bulgaria. if you take your own reports seriously, commissioner, i do not believe that the serious problems you yourself have pointed out in your reports can be solved in five months' time. i am in favour of being clear and saying: bulgaria, we are sorry, but you cannot join until 2008. i see the commission's political problem, because there is no majority in the council to which you are giving an opinion in favour of this option, but i think it is wrong that romania and bulgaria are linked up to the last moment. why is it so wise and why is it so good to distinguish between countries on the basis of their own performance? this is a signal to our own people and to new applicant countries such as croatia and turkey. the message should be that it makes a difference whether you reform or not. if you do, you will be rewarded, if you do not, as in the case of bulgaria, you will be punished for it. now it seems very much that it doesn't matter what you do, whether you do it or not, and that the decision to join depends on internal developments in the eu, on opinion polls, on votes and not on the performance of candidates. the lesson of this procedure should be to never mention data again, because that takes the pressure off the boiler. if we have any doubts, let us not give a date for the postponement and let us give a guarantee to the applicant countries: you'll be admitted if you meet the conditions. if you fail to meet those requirements, you will be on the hook. (applause) i would like to thank
the forerunners of the european union, mr president, started with six states, mainly in the direct sphere of influence of brussels and strasbourg. no one could seriously foresee at the time that these european communities would develop into the umbrella association of 27 or more european states. since the early 1970s, however, these precursors have gradually succeeded in establishing a monopoly position in cooperation between european states. states that were formerly members of the european free trade association (efta) or the council for mutual economic assistance (comecon) are now members of the european union. the forthcoming accession of romania and bulgaria will be more or less the final piece of this. it is to the advantage of their membership that this enlargement can be interpreted as a victory in the cold war over the former adversary. it provides support that otherwise would not be there. that is why this parliament decided last year that the two countries which had not completed the preparations in 2004 will still have to be admitted in 2007 or 2008. i voted for it, too. nevertheless, there is widespread criticism of the domestic situation among these two newcomers. the roma population is still being driven out and their houses are being demolished. the construction of motorways and the extraction of minerals are still the most cost-effective means of protecting nature and the environment in the region. there is still a lack of visibility into how governments manage their money and which companies benefit from it. there are still doubts about the independence and objectivity of the judiciary. there are still ethnic groups who feel that they are treated as second-class citizens and many citizens still leave those countries. this makes it very likely that their accession will now be judged in retrospect as a big mistake and a failure. these shortcomings will not alter their membership, but will add to the arguments against further enlargement. the first country to pay the bill is croatia. it already meets those criteria better than romania and bulgaria and has much in common with the current member state, slovenia, but may have to wait a very long time. this is even more true for the applicant country macedonia, the rest of the balkans, moldova and ukraine. how can we prevent such a negative outcome? lasting solidarity may be better served by more active support to move faster to union level than by rapid admission or more free markets. in the dutch parliament, both my party, the socialist party, and the christian democrats have concluded that the risks of enlargement in 2007 are too great.
i shall try to keep within that three minutes. i fully agree with the analysis which my group's chairman has just given in response to the commission's report. my group, the pse group, has always been consistent in supporting the accession of romania and bulgaria, and we will continue to be so. i can imagine that people in sofia and bucharest are disappointed that the commission is still holding out. but perhaps it is also worth recalling the good news in the commission's report: the report clearly indicates that the commission believes that it is indeed possible to reach the target date of 2007. that is also the ambition of our group. second point: no disconnection. that has just been discussed by other colleagues. romania and bulgaria are in fact treated in the same way. it's also a way to avoid a race between those two countries. the commission says that both countries have achieved a high degree of alignment with the acquis, which is also important to note. the number of red flags has been significantly reduced in both cases, for romania and bulgaria. one from 16 to 6 and the other from 14 to 4. so there has been a lot of hard work and a lot of accomplishment in a short time. it is also important that the commission should not use in its report the terms that one of the two countries is clearly unprepared in a particular area. that is terminology that would immediately lead to a discussion of deferral. i think that the progress made in both countries also shows the resolve of the governments and that we can base our optimism on that 2007 is indeed possible. as my colleague mr schulz has already pointed out, this also requires an effort on the part of the european commission itself. it is a heavy responsibility indeed to specify what exactly is required of the governments of both countries. i have noticed that there have been misunderstandings between the commission and the bulgarian government, particularly as regards what exactly was expected. i think that in sofia both the government and the parliament want to leave no doubt about their willingness to do as quickly as possible what has been asked. the difference between romania and bulgaria is mainly in implementation. it has been launched earlier in romania in the field of the fight against corruption. i am fully confident that, now that the law is in order in sofia, we will also see rapid progress in tackling serious crime and fighting corruption. we note that the european commission is choosing a certain timing and i think we should accept or join that. i hope that timing will be in line with the ratification processes currently under way or yet to be undertaken in a number of member states. the starting point is and remains the maintenance of the agreed date of accession. we have confidence that romania and bulgaria will succeed and i think that both in sofia and in bucharest they realise that that confidence must also be earned.
mr president, for half a century bulgaria was under communist rule. however, when the berlin wall fell it was brought under post-communist rule. agents of the former secret service, the darzavna sigurnost, continued to control the state. the west did business with them during the privatisations, which were often carried out illegally. financial support from the west hardly reached the unemployed bulgarians and the victimised roma. only the former secret agents flourished in their roles as businessmen, judges, bankers, politicians and leaders of ngos. has the population ever had a fair chance under post-communist rule? in the 2001 progress report, the rapporteur, mr van orden, urged the bulgarian authorities to provide further information on the murder of dissident writer georgi markov in london in 1978. it was one of the many contractual killings left unaccounted for long ago and more recently. the report stresses the need for greater efforts for the social inclusion of roma. i also agree with the commission that further efforts are needed to combat all forms of intolerance, racism and xenophobia. i appeal, therefore, to all my fellow meps to sign written declaration no 19 – initiated by meps from five different political groups – on protection of people in bulgaria against neo-totalitarianism. holocaust-deniers in bulgaria close to the former secret service do not belong in the eu. i am also grateful that the commission has concerns about the unacceptable living conditions of the roma. they are scapegoats, like jews, turks and homosexuals. finally, i am very pleased that last week the bulgarian minister of the interior, mr petkov, promised the verts/ale delegation that all the archives of the darzavna sigurnost would be opened before 20 july. only then will we know who killed georgi markov, who committed other crimes and who is really ruling bulgaria today. let us support real reformers and free bulgaria from its past, instead of postponing its future.
i welcome the commission's proposal, mr president, because it is in keeping with the efforts of bulgaria and romania and also with the concerns about the persisting problem areas, which nobody is denying. i would like to say to previous speakers, such as daniel cohn-bendit, that in my view this proposal is a back-up for the reformers and therefore a disappointment for criminals, corrupt people and xenophobes. perhaps mr cohn-bendit should think about who he is actually supporting. the claim that reforms stop at the moment of accession is nonsense. that was also said at the last enlargement and it turned out to be untrue. moreover, reforms are being carried out first and foremost for the people themselves, for a better quality of life and not just to join the european union. it is also true that we urgently need an instrument to be able to finger all eu members, including the current eu members, for not following the rules, including for example fundamental rights. i would like to call for a longer-term approach, because this is not the final stage of reform, as we all know. corruption, crime, discrimination against minorities, etc... must be addressed, also in the future. perhaps these countries, bulgaria and romania, will one day be leaders in the european union, just as they have shown, for example, in the economic field, a much greater and more radical readiness to reform than we in western europe. perhaps they will one day be the champions of fundamental rights and the rule of law and take a leading role in the european union. finally, i would like to call on all members to tell the whole story at home in our own countries and not to make populist speeches based on xenophobia. i welcome bulgaria and romania as of 1 january 2007.
mr president, enlargement is undeniably one of the greatest successes of the european union. too little is realized about what it means for these countries to be part of the community of values, often after decades of tyranny, but also what it means for the old countries. we would have always been worse off if enlargement had not been so successful. but it is precisely in order to support this enlargement and to maintain support that it must be done in a credible way and that we do not play around with criteria. bulgaria and romania are part of the union, but these criteria are important to maintain public support. in order to make enlargement a strengthening of a community of values rather than a weakening of it, these criteria are important. and last but not least, adherence to criteria is important for the citizens of romania and bulgaria themselves and that is why i say to mr watson, who spoke earlier, but also to my compatriot, mrs fell: the commission has already made a number of proposals. then the commission's proposal of the moment. if you look at what has happened, i think the pressure has worked so far, particularly in romania, where mrs macovei as minister of justice has achieved more in a short time than the nastase government in the years before. that's a great compliment. at the same time, we must realize that more pressure is needed. there is still more change to be made in romania, but certainly also in bulgaria, where some developments have proved to be more negative than positive. in view of the need for sustained pressure, the commission's approach is the best. if you say, "it's going to be 2007", that would take the pressure off. but if you say, 'it will be 2008', that would also take the pressure off, because then you would also know that you can join in 2008 anyway and that you don't have to do anything else. the preservation of the sausage, which is still possible in 2007, is important but only under three conditions. first of all, the council should not say that it is too late to decide in october. secondly, if the countries are not in order, we really dare to say in october that it cannot be done in january 2007. thirdly, if we are really talking about credibility, then we must also dare to judge each country on its own performance and then one country cannot be the victim of another. so that would mean: bulgaria and romania to be decoupled and each country to be assessed separately in october. i thank you and i commend you again for the commission's efforts at this time.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, in leading business circles there is a growing recognition that it is imperative to provide for diversity in management and supervisory boards. diversity in educational backgrounds, work experience, age, gender and nationalities guarantees more sensitive, alert and creative cooperation than just adding more of the same sort of people. replacing one bundesbanker with another does not promise much diversity and creativity. if it had been a company operating in a fast-changing environment, i would have advised the ecb, when it was drawing up a profile for a new board member, to look at this aspect of diversity. but the ecb is not a company and its policy is kept static; it is apparently deemed that it should eternally remain as it was at its creation. i will not hide my criticism of this lack of dynamism in the development of monetary policy, although i agree that it is not only the ecb that should be addressed but also the political decision-makers, the ecofin council and the governments of member states, which nowadays do not seem to be very inspired by macroeconomic coordination at european level that complements their common monetary policy. but in this debate tonight we are not dealing with the policies of the ecb and the eurozone as such, but with the appointment of a new bundesbanker to the executive board. the strict remit of our econ committee is to assess the capabilities and competences of the nominated candidates and we do not have much to say in this debate, because the candidate meets the criteria and performed well in the hearing that we had with him. in my political group, the pse, we are more interested in discussing the procedure leading to this appointment. originally we proposed to do that in the report that we are dealing with now and we were disappointed that a majority of the committee did not support it. that was why we abstained in the vote. in the coordinators’ meeting following that committee meeting, we jointly agreed to write a letter to mr grasser, as well as starting a more fundamental debate about the nomination procedure, particularly the upgrading and reinforcement of the role of the european parliament in such nomination procedures. it is very important for the european parliament to counterbalance what i see as a strong renationalisation and non-integrationist trend in the way member states deal with these issues. it is clear where our criticisms are focused: there is apparent evidence that large member states have ‘reserved seats’. there is a lack of debate about profile and portfolios and this diversity of backgrounds, and a lack of choice. the issue of appointment is taken as an ‘a’ item in the council debate and the european parliament has a very limited role. we hope that if we have the opportunity to present more proposals, the commission, the council and the ecb will ready to discuss with us a change in this appointment procedure. but we hope to cooperate very well with any candidate put forward by mr radwan.
i would like to begin by referring to what mr almunia said about something in paragraph 8 of the report on the incorrect application of the stability and growth pact. i agree with him that we have not said that it would be an incorrect application. we have therefore tabled an amendment to that effect to correct that wording. i would ask the other groups to look at it too. our amendment no 7 also seeks to remove this wording from the text. then a comment on the figures and the forecasts. your comment that what was said in that report in 2005 is clearly outdated underlines the relative nature of such forecasts and figures. i would also like to stress this in the light of what you have said today about lithuania, a member state which wants to join the euro zone and which indeed has some points to make when looking at the figures. in fact, it is only a single figure, the inflation rate, while many member states would be jealous of the performance of that country in other areas of public finances. i am only saying this to illustrate the relativity of the figures. what is also important to us in this report are the recommendations which are also made to the eurogroup to improve procedures. in this respect, i think we are also well on our way to building cooperation with national parliaments, also in the framework of the lisbon strategy, and to looking at how a number of public finance procedures in the member states can be streamlined in terms of timing, but also, for example, in terms of the assumptions made about oil price developments and other parameters that are important for policy planning. i think that there is a lot to be done to make this more predictable and comparable in a european context. i would also like to draw the commissioner's attention to these recommendations, but i think we should also do the same with mr juncker, as president of the eurogroup, to ensure that we make good progress there too. i think it is important that this be noted in this report. the same applies to the quality of statistics. that is another important point which we have raised on several occasions and we want to support the commissioner in his efforts to improve on that point too. i would like to end by drawing attention to the final paragraphs of the report and emphasizing them once again.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. mr president, i too would like to express my satisfaction with the result achieved. that's not a big surprise, because i was part of the negotiating team myself. i just want to use this space to thank my colleagues on the negotiating team, the european commission and the austrian presidency. i believe that we have reached the maximum that we could achieve. from the point of view of budgetary control, the most important thing is without any doubt that we have got a passage in the agreement on better control of expenditure, on certification. the european court of auditors has been issuing a negative certificate of reliability for one document for 11 years. we can no longer sell that to the european citizens. last year we said for the first time in a statement in the discharge report that national declarations had to be made. before the negotiations 23 of the 25 member states were against it, after the negotiations they were all in favour. i think it is very important for the commission to insist in future that the member states make these declarations in some way. i know there are a few who have objected to that. fortunately, this is not officially reflected in any form in the documents we are adopting today, but it will be a problem in the future. this parliament considers it important that the commission should implement this agreement as it has been said. there are, of course, a number of unfortunate aspects to this agreement. no one can be completely satisfied. i personally consider the council's declaration on voluntary modulation to be the greatest danger. the common market for agricultural products is one of the things we have achieved in europe. if we start with 20% voluntary modulation, or any percentage of voluntary modulation, that is the axe to grind at the root of the common agricultural policy. that is very dangerous and we must prevent it. if it is up to parliament, i will try to prevent this - as long as i am still in parliament. (applause from the left)
in writing. the european parliament has received an additional €4 billion in the eu budget during the negotiations on the financial perspective for the period 2007-13. this addition is unnecessary, all the more so because the additional resources are used to support policies which cannot be considered as core tasks of the european union. this supports my earlier statement that this house is merely paying lip service to the principle of subsidiarity. the interinstitutional agreement contains good elements in terms of better management of the eu budget and more effective fight against irregularities and fraud, with member states also taking their responsibility. i am not in favour of spending money on the globalisation fund, the flexibility instrument, the solidarity fund and possibly on european schools.
in writing. the vvd group voted today in favour of the roth behrendt report, although it is not entirely satisfied with the compromise reached between the european parliament and the european council. the compromise takes steps to relax the ban on feeding animal meal to non-ruminants, provided that animals are not fed animal meal from their own species. for this purpose, reference is made to the regulation on animal by-products (ec 1774/2002), which prohibits the feeding of animal by-products within the species, on the grounds of possible risks to food safety. the vvd welcomes this relaxation but is dissatisfied that the compromise does not say anything about imposing the same requirements on imported products. products from non-ruminants from third countries do not have to meet any conditions in the field of animal meal feeding. the vvd believes that products from third countries should meet the same requirements, especially if food safety is at stake. the vvd voted in favour of the compromise because it is an improvement on the present situation in many other respects. the adoption of the compromise means agreement at first reading, so that these improvements can be implemented in the short term.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. president, commissioner, members of the council, concrete support for citizens on both sides of the eu's external borders in the coming years is what we have been particularly committed to in the committee on regional policy, i as co-rapporteur (article 47). and this first reading agreement on the enpi, as mr szymański has already said, is now within reach. the european border regions will be given the opportunity to implement concrete programmes on the external borders in the coming years, also with the help of the european regional development fund, some 700 million euro per year, covering a wide spectrum of areas such as health, education, the economy, the environment, etc. it is very important that we have also reached agreement with the council on implementation. we have been able to continue the interreg methodology in regional policy in particular. in this connection we have been consulting the association of european border regions and the newly formed neighbour network of external eastern border regions. they say they can get away with it: they have received and adopted actionable suggestions. finally, we also agreed on a transitional arrangement. preparatory measures may be financed. and if we fail to reach an agreement with the regions and the national state at the external border, then after 1 june 2010 we will take concrete measures to ensure that the money can be spent inside the border in the member states and not be lost. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european environment agency.
mr president, a year and a half ago the european commission put forward new proposals for the financial instruments for external policy, including development cooperation, with the aim of simplification and rationalisation. i couldn't agree more. but the way the commission wanted to do that would mean that, whereas the european parliament now has a codecision right - with 16 schemes - it would in future have only an advisory role in the field of development cooperation. the european parliament calls for co-decision on the thematic and geographical content of the policy and the distribution of the money between the priorities. and then the commission - this is another issue in this instrument - wants to merge economic cooperation with non-oecd countries and development cooperation by using a dual legal basis. and that is and remains unacceptable to the european parliament. we have now lost 18 months, we believe, in the absence of new proposals from the commission. but it's not too late. the committee on development and cooperation is prepared to set up a task force on the basis of the mitchell report and we are prepared to move quickly. on one condition: the commission should put forward proposals in the coming weeks. firstly, an updated instrument, solely for development aid, based solely on article 179, so limited to official development expenditure. secondly, separate proposals for thematic and geographical programmes. we are prepared to limit the number of arrangements. we want to be able to participate in the decision-making process on the broad lines of policy. thirdly, we want to give financial priorities either through a multiannual financial framework or by including a very limited number of percentages in the geographical and thematic proposals. our proposal is: 50% of all eu oda expenditure for the millennium development goals and within this, a doubling of current spending on primary education and primary health care. it is now up to the commission to decide whether it wants to do business or whether we should continue to block each other. then we block simplification and rationalization, and then we're back to those 16 tools and all the unworkable micromanagement. in the interests of credible and effective poverty reduction, council and commission, accept our outstretched hand. and i thank the austrian presidency for the commitment it has shown so far.
i also want to congratulate you, mr president, on the fact that your country has won the european cup tonight, but perhaps it also reflects a little on my country, with a dutch coach from barcelona. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report, because it is a very good report. it indicates the right priorities. but what is even more important - and i am speaking here tonight mainly as the shadow rapporteur on the agricultural budget on behalf of the ppe-de - is that this report is a hot bath for european farmers and gardeners in contrast to what the british government has done during the presidency, the labour government. i would like to congratulate mr elles on that. the agricultural and horticultural sectors are in a good state. the council's easy way of letting countries voluntarily transfer 20% of premiums to rural development could become a stab in the back of hardworking farmers and gardeners. i am not against rural policy, but the voluntary nature of this proposal creates a great danger of creating competitive differences between farmers in the different member states. and that leads to the erosion of the common market. the possible voluntary transfer of 20% of the premiums is also likely to be attacked again by the financial emergency brake from the mid-term review. because, through commitments to the acceding countries, romania and bulgaria, this means that a 15% reduction for agriculture and horticulture in the old member states can eventually be reintroduced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament and the european commission, as guardians of the common market, will have to do everything in their power to prevent this. i am also shocked by the comments of former commissioner bolkestein, who as commissioner for the internal market recently again rejected the agricultural reforms of the prodi commission and their financing, which he had agreed to, and said that the agricultural policy should be abolished. i call on the present commissioner for the budget to be vigilant in the common market and to avoid further damage to european agricultural money and european agricultural policy. because let's face it: 80% of europe's export refunds have been cut, 60% of agricultural exports to developing countries are already going to the eu, and we have an agreement with the 48 poorest countries in the world. i know of no part of the world that has done more for the liberalization of agricultural policy than europe, and it has been enough.
in writing. i voted for the krehl report on the community strategic guidelines on the basis that it goes some way in attempting to inject a more social and environmental side to the commission's proposed strategic guidelines and because it supports sound partnership between all parties and the strengthening of civil society. however, this vote should not imply acceptance of every word of the report. i have grave concerns about the inclusion in ms. krehl's report of a call for the commission to promote the use of public-private partnerships and about the absence of a specific rejection of earmarking and the thinking behind that approach.
in writing. i regret that i have not been able to agree with the reports by berend and galeote. the reason for this is not that i am against mutual solidarity between member states in the event of disasters. both reports together strongly suggest an eu framework in which prevention, response and management of a (natural) disaster play a central role. this could be justified if all member states are faced with this problem to a greater or lesser extent. that's not always the case. the eu's involvement should therefore be limited to complementary actions which cannot be carried out by the member states themselves. the eu's position is more vindicated when eu initiatives focus on cross-border disasters of an unavoidable or uncertain nature whose consequences exceed the capabilities of member states. for that reason, i could have agreed to a limited additional instrument which could be invoked in justified circumstances. nevertheless, these proposals very rightly point to the importance of preventive action. i hope and expect that both the member states and the eu will use all the means at their disposal to minimise the risk of disaster. after all, prevention is always better than cure.
- a writer. mr president, it seems that developments in nepal are turning in the right direction. it can't be that in a country where there's one person in the world who has all the power. i thought that was the case in the past with the king of nepal. we must support the democratic developments in nepal in every possible way, especially in this hemisphere, the heart of democracy in europe. i think the king has done the right thing by calling a constitutional assembly so that nepal can have a good new constitution. i think it is particularly important that there should be an electoral system which is representative and in which every group, whether it is presently inside or outside nepal, can identify itself. nepal too must be a representative democracy. the big question is: what can europe do? if the democratic developments are appreciated and if the parties and the prime minister think it useful for a delegation from this parliament to go to nepal to support the developments, then of course we should do so. i also believe that the european union should play an active role at a high level in the negotiations on the new constitution. perhaps we can contribute to that, and i agree with what the resolution says, that we are doing that together with other major powers, the united states and india, and whatever else. it will take some time to heal the wounds of the past, but we must try to heal those wounds as quickly as possible with money, with funds, with all the means at our disposal.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). there is no easy solution to a conflict that has been going on for almost 25 years. it's a kind of purulent tumor that erupts from time to time. that's the case now. i agree with all the speakers who have said that it is absolutely not a solution to take up arms to win a particular battle. we're gonna have to keep talking. the big question is: how can that work best? since 2002, norway has acted as mediator. i agree with nina gill and someone else who said it. the big question is: could europe not play a more important role? would it be helpful if a leading european politician were to speak with both parties or with other parties in sri lanka? we went there with a delegation last year and then there was a suggestion from some quarters that it might be useful if a power somewhat larger than norway would come forward as a mediator. i would particularly like to hear from the commission what it thinks of that suggestion.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). yet no one seems to! the taiwanese reality, however, is different. the health of a civilian population of 23 million souls as well as that of numerous foreigners on the island is in acute danger. why would you do that? simply for political reasons, taipei is systematically excluded from the activities of the world health organization: it's an untenable, shameful situation! it is also an accusation which i heard from the indigenous and european sides, particularly from my own camp, during my visit to taiwan. i can support the resolution which is clearer than ever because of a very recent development in taipei, just this week according to senior diplomatic sources from europe. above all, the taiwanese authorities wanted to depoliticise who participation. their aim is first and foremost meaningful participation, that is to say technical involvement in all who activities, just as stated in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the joint motion for a resolution. i expect the european institutions to make every effort to protect and promote public health everywhere in the world. one white, unprotected spot is already a global danger, whether it's called taiwan or something else. let the chinese and non-chinese be permeated or affected by it.
the council is against guantanamo, but it does believe that there are improvements. the european commission has good principles, which i support, but it does believe that president bush can be taken at his word when he says that the united states wants to close guantanamo bay. what you both forget is that there is a development going on now, namely that new prisons are being built, including in guantanamo bay. mr brok has been here - perhaps he will tell us something about it - but i think that is a development which you should also be responding to. what are you going to do about it? will you only open a new dialogue with the united states or will you also make real demands for once? demand at a time when the united states wants something from us too. i'll name it, the passenger records. are you really going to make demands? there is also a helping hand we can extend to the united states, for example to the people who are now in prison and who will not be brought before a judge. because even the american authorities have admitted that there are some innocent people in prison. what are we gonna do with that? the european union is not, of course, complicit in guantanamo, but it can help to provide a solution for these people out of compassion for them. i will take the example of the uighurs. there were a number of uighurs in prison, and mr bush said that they were innocent, but they could not stay in america, they could not be deported to china because they would be tortured there. what should be done with these people? the eu has not offered a helping hand. they are now in albania and will probably be extradited to china, with the question whether they have really made a lot of money. what are you willing to do for a large group of people still in guantanamo bay who are being told they cannot be brought to justice because there is no evidence that they are guilty? is it not an option for the european union to lend a helping hand and say, we can possibly offer protection to these people. my final point, mr president, is that it is very, very easy to concentrate on guantanamo bay. that is a clear place with a limited number of prisoners, but the injustice is of course also in the rest of the world, because more and more prisoners are being transported, also to other parts of europe - something was said about that too - and i hope that the governments are also prepared to look at what their own passive role may have been in this.
rapporteur for the opinion on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. mr president, the mutual trust between the united states and the european union has been under pressure in recent years. i would therefore like to mention two issues that need to be resolved to build that trust. we cannot rest on the visa requirements imposed by the united states on some eu citizens. president barroso has rightly called on the united states to lift the visa requirements for citizens of the 10 new member states. it is wrong in principle to apply such a division to eu citizens. in the coming weeks, the temporary committee to investigate the alleged cia camps will be discussing its draft interim report. there are indications of irregularities in the treatment of suspects. there is no hard evidence so far. this temporary committee will continue its work to arrive at as convincing evidence as possible. parliament will therefore have to insist on substantial cooperation in the run-up to the summit. paragraph 11 of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties has been tabled as amendment no 34 and i ask for your support.
on behalf of the pse group thank you, mr president, for the record time you have allotted me. i would therefore like to say very briefly that my group supports mr brok's report and the compromises we have reached in the committee on foreign affairs. my appreciation for the work he has done; i think it is important that two major groups should be more or less on the same page on a subject as important as relations with the united states. the first thing we must remember is that the united states and the european union have many shared interests, not least economic interests, and we cannot stress enough the importance of these economic interests. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial markets are not affected by the crisis. we must certainly also try to strengthen our cooperation in this area, and my colleague erika mann's report gives a lot of incentives for this, which i think are very valuable. nor do we have to deny that we differ in certain areas of understanding. this is also very well stated in mr brok's report. we're both independent partners in the partnership. i also support the idea of creating a more contractual relationship and partnership, which will allow for honest and open discussion of problems, including at parliamentary level, if they arise. the question for me is only whether the americans are prepared to recognize the european union as such that they are prepared to enter into such a contractual relationship. i would say that we should try to develop a new policy in the coming years in a number of areas, energy policy, the energy problems we have and where the americans and the europeans have a number of common interests. i also ask for a deeper relationship and a federal outcome to our cooperation. i'll leave it at that. i could go on for hours on this important subject.
the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process, and it is a party to the peace process. beijing's global peaceful rise is giving europeans and americans alike enough headaches. and that is not limited to trade conflicts or the enforcement of human rights in china. i therefore welcome paragraphs 8, 9 and 21 of mr brok's report. it is always about promoting a transatlantic approach to the relationship with china. i am thinking in particular of the reduction of the dangerous tension over taiwan and progress on the tibet question. this morning the dalai lama personally assured me that a transatlantic approach to the chinese problem of tibet is urgently needed. president. - mr president, i think that it is precisely the combination of transatlantic forces that can make china a real stakeholder in the international system.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr grossetête, for his excellent report. it's an important subject we're discussing tonight. children take medication and take a lot of medication. so it's really important that they get the right medication, in the right dosage and in the right form. the commission proposal is of great importance to children, to parents and to industry. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i am also very sorry that dagmar roth-behrendt cannot be here today. as shadow rapporteur, she has worked very hard on this legislation and i wish her very much well from this place. i must say that our group was very divided on this proposal. of course, everyone agrees that medicines for children should be developed. pharmaceutical manufacturers should be fairly compensated for the research they carry out on medicines for children. that is another point on which everyone agrees. it may be a generous compensation, but for a large part of our group the six-month extension of the patent was very generous. i checked with a reputable company. a study on the application of medicines to children generally costs about 8 million euros. the revenue from a six-month patent renewal is a multiple. 200 to 300 million, and that's a lot of money. and then there are much higher amounts for blockbusters. of course, it is also possible that the yield is somewhat lower in the case of drugs for less common diseases. that is why we have called for proportionality. we believe that the reward should be commensurate with the cost incurred. that is a very simple and normal principle. the cost of medicines does not have to be unnecessarily high, and that is why, mr president, and i am not going to go into detail, we are looking forward with great interest to the evaluation and revision of this directive, because then we will see what the six-month extension of patents has brought about, what the economic cost of this is and whether it is damaging to the innovative capacity of industry.
i welcome this proposal because i am convinced that it will lead to more medicines being developed and tested specifically for children. this is particularly important for patients with serious illnesses such as cancer or immune system disorders. but we must not lose sight of the ethical side of the matter. it is important to prevent children from being used as guinea pigs. it is therefore appropriate to include research already carried out in third countries in order to avoid double-checking. it is estimated that between 50 and 90% of the medicines currently used in paediatrics have never been specifically studied or approved for use in that age group and therefore the negative or positive effects of this use are virtually unknown. it is therefore right that european regulations should stimulate research into medicines specifically designed for children and thus put an end to uncertainty.
on behalf of the ind/dem group mr president, good morning to all the members of this house. i fully agree with all the previous speakers. a ban on the practice of medicine for those convicted of sexual offences is unfortunately a bitter necessity. it is therefore to be commended that belgium has proposed this framework decision. the reason is sad. the convicted man was able to return to work in belgium and took advantage of the situation. we must therefore do everything we can to prevent a recurrence. however, there are major differences between national laws in the area of dismissal. this may be in the form of criminal, civil or administrative proceedings. the proposal does not provide for new means of exchanging information. are the existing means of exchanging criminal records sufficient to exchange professional bans established through another legal form? exchange of professional bans also means that member states will maintain a professional ban when it has been issued in another member state. is this a first step towards mutual recognition of professional bans? i would like to know whether this proposal is feasible without additional resources.
mr president, i would like to clarify the content of amendment 2. it is not, as mr langen said, a criticism of the commission. we in our group have always said that we support the commission in dealing with the treaty and the protocols to the treaty. this amendment – which was tabled by the alde group and which we are supporting – it is stated that we regret the negative recommendation issued to lithuania. this is not a criticism of the commission. we regret that it has been like it is and we have some critical remarks on the criteria in the text, which are supported by everyone. (mixed reactions)
mr president, my oral amendment is only a technical amendment to delete the word ‘all’. we cannot say that ‘all’ member states are responsible for enlargement of the eurozone since two of them – the uk and denmark – have an opt-out.
in writing. i voted for the langen report on the enlargement of the eurozone because i believe that the european commission must strictly adhere to the criteria for membership of the eurozone. this is the only way for the euroregion to live up to the trust on a lasting basis. my group considers slovenia and lithuania to be ready in principle for the euro. the accession of these countries to the euro area would be positive for the whole european economy. the willpower with which they have carried out economic reforms in recent years should be an incentive for all euro countries.
president, commissioner frattini, you state very clearly that the facts also confirm that during this world cup there is an increase in the trafficking of women and children, and an increase in forced prostitution. so it's not just a paper problem, but it's a really big problem, and it's actually quite distressing that this is happening in our western society in 2006. it is therefore right that so much political turmoil has arisen in recent times and that not only parliament but also you and the council of ministers are concerned with this problem. in the netherlands, when it comes to football, we say, not words but deeds, and i would like to share that with you, commissioner frattini, and i would also like to say that to the member states. i am glad that you have indicated on a number of points that something is really happening. however, when it comes to controls at the eastern border, for example, you are seriously delaying the long term, including the hotlines and the need to really understand the scale of the problem and the criminal networks behind it. i am very grateful for your efforts, but i am also critical, because europol should not be left to analyse and you should not be left to call on the member states to cooperate more closely with europol. but europol must also be present in germany and provide the german police with its knowledge and expertise. and the german police should now simply check the licences of prostitutes, because then it will be clear which prostitutes do not have that licence and are forced to do so. i see in your statement a lack of cooperation from the member states, and that is a serious point, because i understand that you are dependent on the information from the member states. i am very much looking forward to your evaluation after this world cup and i hope that we can then, together with you, put more pressure on the member states to take real action in this respect.
mr president, mr frattini, have you ever turned the last page of european newspapers? often there are advertisements with telephone numbers, telephone numbers of young ladies like lolita, tina and francesca, of polish, bulgarian and ukrainian girls. what i miss is a universal multilingual phone number that lolita herself can call if she's forced into prostitution. it's about time there was a number like that, and it's got some urgency. the world cup has begun. you must have noticed. the systematic exploitation of women forced into prostitution is also a problem, but it has not received enough attention. mr. frattini, i look to you as a good referee to draw the red card and end this grave infraction, not in injury time but now. i will soon be going to the world cup in germany to take action against racism in football, but i will also be keeping my ears and eyes open to observe what is happening to tackle forced prostitution. mr frattini, it is not enough to worry about the times and the mores. what will you do in practice to help women and girls who are humiliated, raped, exploited and abused during the world cup? your analysis confirms the picture of a large group of women. if you come up with some good deeds to actually help these girls, you can count on my support. good luck with that.
i would like to thank mrs klaß for the work she has done to ensure that this dossier is properly dealt with at second reading. the fact that her report was unanimously adopted in the committee on the environment indicates that she has chosen a line which many can share. we must note that the common position adopted by the council last year does not correspond to the position adopted by this parliament at first reading. the common position could use some tightening up, particularly as regards the definition of decline. fortunately, we are going to adopt many amendments tomorrow which will bring about a considerable improvement in the common position. i am thinking, for example, of amendment no 30 on the harmonization of measurement methods. we know that some member states are doing very well because they are making large corrections. amendment no 30 will in any case lead to the control of those methods. that's a good thing. groundwater is also used for drinking water in the netherlands. it is also a reserve for future generations. pollution is therefore a waste of capital and must be avoided. i would like to ask for your support for amendment no 44 by my colleague from the group of the european people's party, mr jens-peter bonde. an identical amendment was also adopted for the fluorinated gases directive and was eventually incorporated in the directive. if you think this amendment goes too far, i would urge you to support amendment no 37 in any case. i have one more question for commissioner dimas. commissioner dimas said that the nitrates directive has the same objective as this groundwater directive. my question is therefore whether it is necessary for that nitrate directive to continue to exist in the future alongside this groundwater directive. i'd like to hear his answer to that.
i would also like to begin by thanking mrs klaß for her work. i particularly appreciated that when i wanted to talk to her, she was always available, even though we did not always agree. of course, everyone - and this has been said many times - is in favour of clean groundwater, and i am in favour of it too. the expression in english is: "prevention is better than cure". if that is to happen, we can only applaud. i agree with mr blokland that it is very important that we include in the compromise something about measurement methods. the most important thing for me is that these measurement methods will not be the same throughout the european union. those measurement methods will have to be different on sandy soil than on clay soil and perhaps they will have to be different in a short growing season than in a long growing season. what i am still concerned about at the moment and i have also tabled amendments on this - and i am not always quoting mr blokland, but he also mentioned this tonight - is the relationship with other existing legislation. i am thinking in particular of the nitrate directive. is there not a risk that brussels will pile up legislation after legislation without anyone knowing what they are doing? the nitrate directive says: you may keep 1,7 livestock units per hectare. the groundwater directive says: you're allowed 50 milligrams of nitrate in the groundwater at most. now, suppose the following situation arises. a farmer has 5 cows per acre and a nitrate content in the groundwater of 30 milligrams. it does not comply with the nitrate directive, but it does comply with the groundwater directive. which policy will prevail? this is a matter of double legislation and a clear answer must be given to this. that is why i am proposing that if there is a progress report, and there will be, the commission will take note of it. i can hardly imagine that anyone would object to that, but i have heard from the rapporteur that she does. i am surprised and i would also regret it, because all i ask is for a better evaluation to avoid double legislation. the same applies to manure discharges. there is already legislation on this too. we must avoid giving the average citizen in europe the impression that some bureaucratic monster is being created in brussels which he has no control over but which he must blindly obey. we in the netherlands learned a great deal about this when we voted on the european constitution more than a year ago. one of the arguments was clear: we do not want that bureaucratic monster in brussels and i am a little afraid that with this double legislation we are running a great risk of that. that is why i am tabled my amendments.
president. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a citizen of a country which is largely below sea level, you will not be surprised to find me particularly interested in the debate on this directive. i live 20 feet below sea level. in recent years, we have seen what a disastrous effect flooding can have. my country, which is not called the netherlands for nothing, has experienced this myself on several occasions. i therefore welcome a directive which should lead to better protection against flooding. however, the proposal which the commission has put before parliament contains a few elements which i find difficult to support. i think that the first thing this directive should do is to ensure that member states do not take measures which increase the risk downstream. much damage caused by river floods is found to be the result of human intervention, such as sewerage, building of outcrops, deforestation of mountain slopes, and so forth. targeted measures can help prevent such damage. this gives the people of the lowlands a certain basic security. that is why i support amendments nos 61 and 62. secondly, this directive should not be specifically aimed at reducing risks. this is because in certain countries which already enjoy a high level of protection, this is a work in progress. in general, i can say that i will support the amendment which has been tabled in the committee on the environment. nevertheless, my group considered that five amendments were necessary. amendment no 78 is the most important of these. the european commission's proposal for article 9 can be interpreted as meaning that not only the plans but also the implementation of the measures contained in those plans must be assessed by the commission. the consequence of this is that infringement proceedings could also be brought against member states for failure to implement these specific measures. not only does this create a completely new situation, since this has never been regulated in any directive, but it could also lead to member states adopting plans with a very low level of ambition. i would like to hear from commissioner dimas what he thinks about this, because this is a very fundamental point for me. finally, i would like to thank mr seeber for his good work.
i would like to begin by congratulating mr seeber. i think he has put forward a very good report which we will support in general. floods are a reality for millions of people in europe, a frightening reality. the danube, the rhine and the meuse have all flooded their banks in recent years, with devastating consequences. more and more people are facing flooding. the construction of the outlying valleys has become more intensive and the river beds have become shorter. climate change may increase water supplies. most rivers are international, and therefore an international approach is of great importance. i very much appreciate the commission's proposal, but i also have two comments. first of all, the international approach is still too vague. it just says that problems should not be twisted. that is not enough for me, because the question is: what is a spin? the pse group therefore calls for cooperation between member states to be improved. the starting point should be the natural course of the river. of course, it is not found in many rivers and in many places. but the principle is clear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. it is simply a matter of good neighbourliness and that is why i am asking for support for amendment no 82. the second point concerns subsidiarity. europe must not interfere with matters beyond what is strictly necessary. there's every reason for that. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, including a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. president, i would like to congratulate mr buzek on his long and intensive work, and of course the commission. the seventh framework programme is a huge step forward for science in the european union with a dramatically increased budget. for the bioeconomy as it is called, that is to say for agricultural research, it is a much bigger step forward because this research will finally have a chapter of its own and that is essential for all agricultural research. it's a huge improvement. it should, because agriculture is in a rapid transformation, technologically from food to food and bioenergy and replacement of fossil fuels and plastics, but also in another transformation, of organizational structures. that research also needs space, and it will be there. one small criticism. there was an amendment from the committee on agriculture which was also adopted and which calls for the sharing of our knowledge with poor countries in the world where agriculture is so important. i would like to have the commission's commitment that this sharing of knowledge will continue, also in the seventh framework programme. this sharing of knowledge must take place, because only then will the framework programme be at the service of what we should really be advocating with the eu in the world, namely a social and sustainable globalisation.
the seventh framework programme for research 2007-2013 includes a controversial component, namely research using embryonic stem cells. this type of research, which involves the killing of human embryos, is ethically and constitutionally problematic. that aspect has not been sufficiently discounted in the text of the committee on industry which is before us for a vote. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by mr gargani, mr záborská and myself, and those tabled by the committee on legal affairs and the committee on women's rights. these amendments include the framework programme's focus on the alternatives to embryonic stem cell research. they certainly exist in the form of adult stem cell research and research using stem cells from umbilical cord blood. these offer good prospects for the development of new therapies against diseases such as diabetes and alzheimer's. in addition, embryonic stem cell research is a criminal offence in a number of member states. these member states would then be contributing to research prohibited in their own countries through community funds. this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and does not contribute to the confidence of the citizens of the member states in the european institutions. the financing of this research is a clear example of a subject which the european union should leave to the member states. it is important that politics and policy do not accept the fact that embryos are being killed. the european union should not encourage this research. it is important to recognise that there is a growing concern not to produce more embryos than are used per fertility treatment. new ivf techniques are increasing the possibilities for this. finally, in addition to the funding of embryonic stem cell research, there is another undesirable aspect in the proposal from the committee on industry, namely the revision clause. the committee on industry wants to review the exclusion from the european commission's proposal midway through the framework programme. i am thinking, for example, of so-called reproductive cloning and the creation of human embryos for research purposes only, which are not currently eligible for european funding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we must now make a good choice, the choice to invest in the alternative forms of research without ethical problems, because this does not kill embryos. the dignity of life must not be compromised. after all, life is entrusted to us by god himself and we must not take it into our own hands!
the research and technology programme is a real step forward. it is one of the key building blocks for global competitiveness and is a response to globalisation. this european scale and the emphasis on excellence provide essential added value to this european commitment. top-level research at european level, but also a large and balanced effort from the member states and the regions, is urgently needed. as shadow spokesman for capacity - which is part of the research infrastructure - i have looked very closely with the rapporteur, mr buzek, at possible synergies with the structural funds. this will help to build high-quality structures and research infrastructure, and support innovation and production. i am glad that this emphasis will be reinforced again next month when the vote on the 2007-2013 structural funds is taken. in short, less money in asphalt, concrete and roads, more money in research infrastructure and training our people. that is the commitment for the coming years that is important for europe. this will allow a more specific research structure to be created and built up. in fact, with limited resources, in relation to the large research and the large structural funds, we can double the budget. that's a different sound. it can be. i have a question for commissioner potočnik. will we be jointly assessing the structural funds policy and its results and this policy in the future mid-term review? i see little incentive to do so. i say this with a view to the period 2013-2020. finally, i am pleased that some of my amendments have been accepted, concerning medical research, healthy food, aviation, logistics, etc. i shall be voting for a cautious and careful line on stem cell research. i shall support the amendment tabled with mrs niebler.
president. - i should like to begin by congratulating mr buzek and all the shadow rapporteurs. innovation is not the european union's strong point. despite the lisbon agenda and the knowledge economy, it is not easy to show strength, but there is a bright spot and that is the seventh framework programme for research. the programme offers great opportunities for innovation, especially for smes. i expect a lot from the energy research programme. there are opportunities for energy efficiency and renewable energy. not only research but also demonstration projects are important. for example, global warming is possible, as i saw last week in the dutch horticultural sector. but the financial and user sectors are not taking any action. the health programme is also important. health is too important to be left to private sector researchers. the ethical limits are, in my view, well defined. if we look at european industry as a whole, we may be too competitive. cooperation is just as important. we need to move towards a new approach, open innovation, sharing knowledge and sharing knowledge. i hope that the seventh framework programme can contribute to this.
mr president, i should like to make a very brief point of order concerning the vote we just had on the guantánamo report. it is based on the same rule that mr brok used when he wanted to postpone the vote on this report. perhaps during the next part-session, when people have requests like this, the trips that we make should be coordinated with the agenda of parliament, rather than parliament’s agenda being coordinated with the individual trips of members of parliament.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. it shows that we take the threat of a bird flu pandemic seriously and that there is no time to sit back and wait to see if one breaks out, because then it will be too late. i am also glad that he and the parliamentary committee have taken up some of my suggestions, such as urging the council to give the european commission the power to take crisis measures within 24 hours in the event of a pandemic outbreak. i would like to make three further comments. first of all, the commissioner was right to say that we had been warned. so we can already prepare for a possible pandemic. we need a roadmap for the european institutions, for example, because in the event of a pandemic, travel restrictions may also limit large international gatherings. so it may be more difficult to meet in brussels or strasbourg, let alone both. we haven't really thought about it. i have written to president borrell about this. in reply, he assured me that the services were looking into it and then a deafening silence broke out. the second point concerns the establishment of better cooperation between the member states. i welcome the commissioner's reference to this, because a recent report in the medical journal the lancet shows that while member states are already well prepared for the outbreak of a flu pandemic, they are completely unaware of the plans of neighbouring countries and therefore do not benefit from mutual coordination and cooperation. if, for example, germany were to decide in its road map to close the border with the netherlands in the event of a crisis, it would be as useful as the netherlands being aware of it. i'll give you an example. i find it really incomprehensible that the ministers of health have recently decided not to put in place an emergency stock of antiviral medicines. we already know that in the event of an outbreak there will be a shortage of these resources and a european stockpile could provide a solution in that case. i also think it is excellent that the commissioner has reacted so sharply, so strongly and so publicly. i'm with him on that one. my final point. so, of course, laying down disinfectant mats at airports and things like that makes sense if it happens everywhere, but the biggest problem will be traveling during a pandemic. one of the aspects to be considered is that, for example, the media will travel to crisis areas and back and in this way can also be a source of spread of the virus. i do not think it is unreasonable for us - if we consider ourselves as a parliament - to take note of this and to contact one another to see how we can solve it, without, of course, jeopardizing the freedom of the press.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr adamou, for his excellent report. avian influenza remains a major threat to human and animal health in europe and beyond. this clearly requires european coordination. if there is a gap in the measures against avian influenza anywhere in the union, it can have very serious consequences for all of us. but it would be foolish not to look beyond our eu. the virus will not be able to hold on to the external borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the 80 million euros currently allocated by the eu to third countries is therefore a little too much. it's not a subject to be cut back on. perhaps it is an idea to abolish the monthly move of parliament from a security point of view to prevent the spread of the virus and to put the 200 million euros that this brings into the fight against the virus. furthermore, prevention is better than cure, so ensuring adequate responses to an outbreak is important. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. i believe that the best prevention method is still the vaccination of poultry in europe. not only does this reduce the chance of the virus spreading, but it can also prevent us from killing millions of animals unnecessarily and prevent psychological damage to farmers and aid workers involved.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it was pointed out by several speakers that tunisia is a partner and i think it is also important that we treat this country as a partner, with all the difficulties that we do not want to ignore. you also pointed out that this country is a role model, that it plays an important role in the euro-mediterranean partnership and that our efforts to establish dialogue between religions and between civilizations are about maintaining dialogue with a secular, moderate islamic country. so i think that we have to be proportionate in the choice of our political and diplomatic means in relation to human rights violations - and no one here will deny that the human rights situation in tunisia is unsatisfactory. that means we should try to use the means that will bring about success. we must also - and i can only agree with mr busuttil - preserve our own credibility and be consistent, coherent and clear in our human rights policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as a lawyer who has also worked as a lawyer for many years, i can only emphasize this, because an independent, functioning judiciary is the key to functioning in a democracy. i therefore believe that the commission and we must support and promote projects and work together with tunisia towards this objective of an independent judiciary. it was also said by several speakers that the call for an urgent meeting of the association council was not heeded. i would remind you that the convening of an association council requires the agreement of both parties, but there will be an association council in july and there will certainly be no doubt that we will take this opportunity to express our concern, our concern and also our expectations to tunisia. so i think we should continue with our very coherent policy aimed at improving the human rights situation in tunisia, and i think we are on the right track. some progress has been made - as i said in my introduction - and i hope that more progress can be made. the council and the commission will certainly remain consistent on this.
member of the commission. mr president, it is clear that the situation in tunisia as regards human rights continues to be very serious, not least where freedom of expression is concerned. both international and local human rights organisations, unfortunately, report an increasing number of cases of concern. this must be the starting point for our assessment and our policy, where human rights are taken as the key priority. the commission will continue closely to monitor developments and will use all the means at its disposal to improve the situation. for instance, i hope that the eu-tunisia sub-committee on human rights and democracy will soon be up and running. tunisia has already informally stated that individual cases will be raised, notably in the framework of its political dialogue meetings with the european union. it is evident that a dialogue on human rights must also include individual cases. i have some experience on this as regards the candidate countries, where it is linked to our rigorous conditionality. the application of conditionality is essential for the use of the ‘soft’ power that the european union has at its disposal. i hope that conditions can be established for a fair and smooth implementation of the meda project on modernisation of the judiciary, to which there was a reference, a project for which we have a budget of eur 22 million. that would be an important step forward in enhancing reform and modernisation of the judiciary through the meda programme.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. relations with russia are - as the chancellor herself, the foreign minister and i have said at this point - of particular strategic importance. it is therefore also understandable that the austrian presidency has given particular priority to the 17th eu-russia summit in sochi on the black sea on 25 may. the summit focused on key issues in our relations with russia, such as the implementation of the joint roadmaps, the situation in the eu and the russian federation, and future treaty relations; he has also dealt with international issues. the debate was, however, focused on the important subject of energy, for obvious reasons. as you all know, at the beginning of the presidency, after only a few hours, there was something which the chancellor called a 'wake-up call' and which led to increased attention on the part of the european union on this subject. i would also like to recall the conclusions of the european council in march. the question of energy relations, in particular with russia, has also been the subject of a thorough internal discussion within the european union. the summit therefore provided a good first opportunity to talk to president putin about the russian-ukrainian gas conflict, which was the starting point of this crisis in january. president putin has strongly defended and tried to explain russia's actions; the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process in the middle east. the discussions in russia were also influenced by the european council in march, which for the first time envisaged the development of a european energy policy. the european council at the end of this week will be discussing the external aspects of the european union's energy policy on the basis of a paper by the high representative and the commission. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the energy talks at the summit will also be taken into account in the g8 discussions in st petersburg in july. as you know, the main topic of the russian g8 presidency is the security of energy supply. we have taken this opportunity to have a comprehensive, honest, open energy dialogue. the european union has stated that russia must be, has been and is a reliable partner in the energy sector. we nevertheless expressed our concern about the impact of the russian-ukrainian gas conflict in january on the eu and stressed that our relations in this area must be based on the principle of reciprocity, both in terms of market access and in terms of infrastructure and investment. we also stressed the importance of the principles of transparency and openness to competition and strongly urged russia to ratify the energy charter treaty. in response, president putin assured that russia would remain a reliable energy supplier, while at the same time not ruling out russia's ratification of the energy charter treaty in the long term. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the basis of article j.3 of the treaty on european union. he pointed out that there is already significant foreign investment in the russian energy sector, which is much larger than in many other energy producing countries. he said that reciprocity would only make sense if the european union was also willing to give russia access to resources that were of similar importance to the eu as energy resources were to russia. it has become clear that the european union and russia also have very different views on how to develop cooperation in the energy sector. on the positive side, however, the eu-russia summit addressed the issue in an open, positive and productive manner. the two sides agreed to continue, expand and intensify the energy dialogue already begun. above all, president putin has made it clear that he wants to bridge differences and work towards an agreement with the eu. the two sides stressed at the summit the mutual dependence on energy and the need for the eu and russia to define their relations in this crucial area by mutual agreement. of course, other issues were also discussed at the summit. one topic was the question of russia's accession to the wto. russia is determined to conclude the negotiations this year so that it can join in 2007. we reaffirmed our support and reiterated our readiness to subsequently work out a 'free trade agreement plus' with russia under a future comprehensive agreement to replace the existing but expiring partnership and cooperation agreement. russia reiterated its desire to move forward swiftly with the work on such a new eu-russia treaty. it was agreed that the treaty should be as comprehensive and as long-term as possible, reflecting the needs and dynamics of the relationship. until such a new treaty enters into force, the existing agreement should continue to apply in order to avoid a vacuum. we were particularly pleased that the summit was able to sign agreements on visa facilitation and readmission on the basis of the agreement reached under the british presidency at the end of last year. these agreements will greatly facilitate both business and people-to-people contacts. the conclusion of a readmission agreement with russia is a great success and of great significance for the european union. this agreement also shows that eu-russia relations are productive and bring real benefits to our citizens. in this context, we have once again called on russia to take steps to ratify the border agreements with estonia and latvia. the summit naturally also raised human rights issues. we discussed the situation in chechnya. we welcomed the agreement reached with the european commission on the modalities of implementing a eur 20 million programme to support socioeconomic recovery in the north caucasus. we also referred to the human rights consultations, the third round of which took place in vienna in march and which have now become an essential part of our relations. finally, i should like to mention that the discussions also focused on international issues, and in particular on the situation in iran. we also discussed the situation in belarus and reaffirmed our willingness to work with russia to resolve the 'frozen conflicts' in moldova and georgia. finally, the summit agreed on the establishment of an eu-russia jointly funded institute for european studies in moscow. overall, it was a good summit with frank and open discussions in a friendly atmosphere, with both sides willing to bridge differences and find solutions to common problems.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, i am grateful for this opportunity to report, on behalf of the commission, president barroso and my colleague ms ferrero-waldner, on the eu-russia summit which took place in sochi on 25 may. the summit took place one year after the adoption of the four roadmaps for the common spaces and thus provided a good opportunity to review the progress made since then. the summit was the occasion for the signature of the visa facilitation and readmission agreements. the visa facilitation agreement will help encourage contacts between the peoples of the eu and russia. the readmission agreement will help tackle illegal immigration, an issue of growing concern to both the eu and russia. at the summit, there was a very open, frank and substantive discussion with president putin on energy. it was never our expectation that we would find complete agreement in sochi, but the summit did clarify our respective positions. that was extremely helpful as we prepare for the european council discussions on the external aspects of eu energy policy on the basis of the joint paper by the commission and the high representative. the eu and russia are and certainly will remain interdependent in the energy sector and there is a genuine opportunity to integrate eu and russian energy markets in a mutually beneficial, reciprocal, transparent and non-discriminatory manner. in that regard, we look forward to continuing our dialogue with russia both bilaterally and multilaterally at next month’s g8 summit. as for the future framework for eu-russia relations, the summit agreed that our aim should be to replace the partnership and cooperation agreement with a new, durable, comprehensive and legally-binding agreement which should be capable of promoting the further development of eu-russia relations. the pca would remain in place until a new agreement comes into force. the commission is currently preparing draft negotiating directives to that effect. if the council is in a position to adopt them by the next eu-russia summit, negotiations could begin by the end of this year. for both the eu and russia, russia’s wto accession remains a key priority. this will lay the foundations for bringing eu-russia trade and economic relations to a qualitatively new level in the context of the pca successor agreement, taking into account the existing pca objective of a free trade area. in that context, let me report to parliament that we are making good progress on agreeing a new framework document for the renovated northern dimension policy. the commission is negotiating the text with russia, norway and iceland. i am pleased to say that russia shows every interest in confirming its joint ownership of the northern dimension policy. we hope to have an agreement in time for the senior officials’ meeting in finland in september. we will keep parliament informed and seek to ensure that the parliamentary dimension is included in the new policy. international issues were discussed in depth at the summit. the dialogue which has developed with russia over recent months, in particular on iran and the middle east, is a sound example of the eu and russia working to put the concept of effective multilateralism into practice. the eu also emphasised the need to work together with russia on issues in our common neighbourhood. we remain firmly of the view that the resolution of the frozen conflicts and the development of democracy and market economy in the countries of the region represent the best route to ensuring a stable, peaceful and prosperous neighbourhood for both the eu and russia. a number of other sensitive issues were discussed in a constructive spirit at the summit. the eu stressed the importance of russia ratifying the border agreement with estonia and signing and ratifying the border agreement with latvia. in that context, let me welcome the recent meeting between prime ministers kalvitis and fradkov and hope that this represents the start of an intensified bilateral dialogue. the eu also raised its continuing concerns with regard to the situation in chechnya, notably in the light of the most recent visit by the un high representative for human rights, louise arbour. the regular eu-russia human rights consultations continue to provide a useful forum for addressing these issues. in conclusion, the summit demonstrated the breadth and depth of our common policy agenda with russia. as the eu-russia strategic partnership develops, the need for eu coherence becomes all the more essential. the dialogue the commission has with the european parliament on russia is therefore a very important element in this regard in enhancing coherence, coexistence and the effectiveness of eu policy vis-à-vis the russian federation.
president. - there is no doubt about the importance of cooperation between the european union and russia. we must now, more than ever, seek to benefit from this relationship, but also have the courage to speak to each other on difficult points. this requires europe to speak with one voice more than ever. so no more a chancellor saying that russia is a fantastic democracy while other countries are trying to improve the human rights situation there. there is now hope of a new beginning in this respect. our cooperation is based on the four common spaces. but it is clear that this cooperation is not strategic enough and is too pragmatic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that balance is important. we must avoid giving the impression that we are doing less for economic interests or gas interests than for human rights. it just needs to be balanced in open discussion. as regards energy, we must not only pursue a sustainable relationship between supplier and customer, as has just been said, but also prevent russia from using gas as a political lever in the future. human rights must also be explicitly enshrined in the new partnership and cooperation agreement after 2007, with not only consultation between politicians, but now also, firmly enshrined, with contributions from international and national independent ngos. finally, if russia is indeed to join the world trade organisation, it will now have to behave in accordance with wto standards. we must therefore strongly criticise the economic sanctions against georgia and moldova, but also the continuing trade conflict with poland. commissioner, this has been going on for months now and it is now also a european responsibility. can you indicate how we can put an end to this protracted conflict as soon as possible? in any case, mr president, the common approach is paramount and we must make it more important than ever. i think that the joint resolution as it stands is a good start for parliament and i would like to hand it over to our counterparts in russia next week as chairman of the delegation.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. we have drawn up a very good joint resolution which deals with a whole range of issues which i cannot repeat in the two minutes i have been given. i also share mr eurlings' criticism of the rather pragmatic way in which cooperation with the russian federation is completed by working in those four areas. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the schengen acquis, which will be presented to the council in the near future. the policy must not be fragmented and there is a danger that the system of the four areas and the steps taken within them will be compromised. we must continue to look for a broad basis for this cooperation. three elements are essential to this. energy, we've already talked about that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, a critical human rights dialogue with russia on the situation in russia itself, on the chechens, on the ngos, on the increasingly authoritarian features of the government there, but also on democracy in the immediate vicinity, as in belarus in particular. thirdly, solutions must be sought to a number of security problems in the region with which russia has not really cooperated so far. i am thinking here of moldova, georgia and azerbaijan. we believe that all three elements must be brought to justice. we must not prefer one element to another. so no gas in place of democracy or vice versa. all three of the elements i have mentioned must be at the centre of the common agenda. this year is a good time for this. we can talk to russia because it's the g8 chair. we can address russia because it holds the presidency of the council of europe. there is a certain tension if you want to play in all three fields, but that tension is normal when it comes to foreign policy, normal when it comes to russia and in that sense we must also try to be clear in our policy by emphasizing all three elements and not run away from a critical dialogue on matters in russia that we do not like.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: last night i read from a dutch analyst, an expert on russia, that according to the russians, these spaces, or areas of cooperation, are characterized by emptiness. the european institutions can take this self-deprecation to heart. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. a pragmatic approach to real common problems is more appropriate. see entry to kaliningrad or fishing regulations. but let us quickly abandon the illusion of a common neighbourhood policy with the kremlin. take belarus, for example. the idea of a common approach here is simply absurd. i rubbed my eyes when i saw that in a draft resolution. i would like to put two concrete, pragmatic questions to the commission and the council. is the security of supply of russian gas suppliers to european customers now regulated in a legal and transparent manner? my second question is - and the austrian presidency is already pointing this out - what is the status of the final border arrangements between the russian federation and two eu member states, estonia and latvia? after all, this is a common external border of the union. positive answers to these two specific questions would certainly add to the brilliance of relations with russia.
mr president, i just wish to address the issue of human rights. i see that note was taken of the human rights consultations at the summit on 25 may 2006. on 27 may 2006 i had the dubious pleasure of being present at the event organised by gay pride, which has been banned, and saw with my own eyes how the russians feel about freedom of speech, freedom of assembly and protection of the human rights of gay people. frankly, i am not impressed and i would call on our eu leaders to show much stronger leadership when it comes to human rights. i have specific questions for the commissioner. did you raise the issue of the gay pride march with mr putin two days before the event, when it was already known there would be problems? did you put pressure on the russians? why was the issue not raised at the meeting between president barroso, mr schüssel and religious leaders two days later? will you raise the issue at the next opportunity, which i believe is the g8 meeting? will you reply to the chair of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, who responded to the events in moscow by saying that rather than reminding the russians that human rights are universal we should not impose our western, liberal values on russia? in fact, we should be promoting human rights in all our external relations. i should like to hear how you intend to do that, commissioner.
madam president, there was not sufficient time for both gentlemen to reply to my very precise questions and i would like them to provide this house with a written reply if possible.
i am somewhat surprised, mr president, by the interpretation given by the european commission to the court's ruling. in 2002, i supported the oomen-ruijten report and also the challenge to the framework decision, but then the european commission repeatedly told us that the directive and the challenge to the decision should not be seen as a first step towards harmonising criminal law in other areas. it was only because of that guarantee that i could at the time agree to the challenge to the framework decision. it now appears that the european commission has its own interpretation of the judgment and wants to extend it much further and also wants to see harmonization in other areas. that is contrary to what we were told at the time. if i had known that in 2002, i would have voted against the oomen-ruijten report. the gargani report does contain some positive points, such as paragraphs 8 and 13, but as long as paragraphs 4 and 5 are also part of it, i cannot but vote against the motion for a resolution, together with my group.
the european people's party attaches great importance to common guarantees for the protection of privacy at union level. these will not only contribute to mutual trust between member states in the provision of data, but will also benefit the prosecution of criminal offences and the willingness to exchange data for the purpose of that prosecution. you are quite right to point to the availability of data, because it is important that we can make real progress with this for the safety of our citizens. before we can do this, this step should be taken to protect privacy. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has drawn a clear line with us on a number of points. we have not, for example, gone so far as to want to prohibit the exchange of information with third countries. we have collectively drawn a good line by not doing so. secondly, we have not and will not go along with those who want to include the secret services in this. thirdly, the rapporteur has not put pressure on the council to suspend the examination of the reports on fis and sis ii until this report has been completed. mrs roure has done a very good job with that. this is a balanced report, which strikes a good balance between protecting that privacy and creating the possibilities for better data exchange. the latter is our duty to our citizens if we really want the union to do its utmost to ensure security. i thank you again, mrs roure, for your cooperation.
on behalf of the pse group . – mr president, the work of the emcdda is, for me, one of the best examples of the eu having a common goal, a joint interest and an added value, because drugs and drug addiction have a damaging effect on society. they are a source not only of crime but also of social problems, instability and health hazards. the policies of various member states vis-à-vis these problems vary greatly. i believe that it is in the interests of our citizens, especially the young ones, that we europeans should be big enough to want to learn from one another, to want to ask, without any ideological bias, which policies are the most effective. questions that we could have debated in this discussion about the emcdda are, for instance: what about the option to provide heroin under medical supervision to the group that is most heavily addicted? is that something that helps? is cannabis really not dangerous to the health of our citizens? have we ever really investigated this? i am from a member state that has chosen a somewhat peculiar policy on both of those issues. i would be one of the first to welcome a very thorough inquiry. i would also be one of the first to want to do away with those policies if they are not effective. we have not discussed any of that, unfortunately. we have discussed other things, such as how much influence the member states will have on the scientific committee, how we are going to elect the chairperson of the management board, who gets to sit on the management board, and whether the european parliament will have a say on the executive committee – not to be confused with the management board, which is something completely different. i want to thank the rapporteur, because she has managed to engage in this institutional debate without jeopardising the goal of the centre, which is the benchmarking of various member states’ policies – still very much in this report. i praise the emcdda for the work it has done so far, and wish it the best of luck in its work in future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i can be very brief, because most of what needed to be said has been said. i also wish to thank the rapporteur and express my admiration for all the work she has done on a dossier which has not been easy, for the reasons that have just been outlined by my colleague, mrs mastenbroek. this is an area which is very sensitive and very heavily charged with ideology and national traditions as well. the aim of the rapporteur to come to an agreement with the other institutions has our full support, and it has had the full support of all the groups from the very start. it has not been easy, because the text before us is a compromise. let us accept that. many people in my group would have liked to go much further, like many people in mrs mastenbroek’s group, but we have all had to swallow a little bit in order to achieve this compromise. one of the things we have achieved in this compromise that was very important to us was the independence of the monitoring centre and we all know that there were very strong pressures in order to put the scientific committee effectively under national control. however, we have managed to avoid that, and that is really an achievement worth supporting. i have been hesitating until the very end, but i can tell mrs brepoels that she has our support. however, in order to keep the compromise alive, we need the support of all the groups and, therefore, i am seeking clarification from the socialist group as to whether it will support the compromise, because it is essential to know that before we go to the vote. in any case, you can count on our support.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, i am very pleased that we are discussing the excellent report by mrs ždanoka tonight, but i should like to remind you that tomorrow, unfortunately, we will be discussing a resolution on rampant racism and homophobic violence in europe. between the ždanoka report and tomorrow’s resolution, we become painfully aware that there is still a lot to be achieved. therefore i should like to make a proposal to the commissioner. we have been talking a lot about anti-discrimination measures – and there are lots of very concrete proposals in the ždanoka report. when i was preparing my remarks tonight i thought back to march 2000, when the political leaders of europe launched a very ambitious strategy to make europe the strongest sustainable knowledge-based economy in the world. they were very ambitious. perhaps they over-reached a little bit, but ambition is a good thing. why can we not be equally ambitious in the fight against discrimination and in the promotion of fundamental rights and equality in the european union? those are, after all, our shared values. what we need here is not just one measure and then another, but a comprehensive and, most of all, very ambitious strategy. we need a roadmap and we need to put fundamental rights and equality at the heart of european policies. i would like to remind you that about a year and a half ago this house gave its confidence to president barroso and his commission, because he promised us that fundamental rights and the fight against discrimination would be top priority; it would be the cornerstone of the european commission’s policies. i know that the commissioner is personally very committed to that, but i have to say that, on the whole, the track record of the european union in the last couple of years has not been very impressive. i know that the biggest stumbling-block is the member states. the speed with which they adopt measures, security measures, for example, on data retention or pnr data, is remarkable. they manage to take decisions within three or four months. but when it comes to the framework decision against racism and xenophobia, they have still not reached agreement after five years! that is an absolute disgrace. i call on the commission to form an alliance with the european parliament and come forward with a roadmap for fundamental rights and equality, based on the proposals in the ždanoka report. we urgently need concrete measures. we need legislation. it is all very well to have awareness campaigns, but people who are discriminated against need a legal tool so that they can go to court. we need this framework decision. we need a mechanism to monitor the fundamental rights situation in the member state. all of that we would qualify as better lawmaking. that is also in mrs ždanoka’s report. better lawmaking is not just about repealing legislative proposals in the internal market policies; it is also about proposing things that are good for the citizen – something that parliament has been calling for consistently. the charter of fundamental rights needs to become legally binding if it is to have any meaning. with regard to the european year of equal opportunities, it is wonderful that we pay lip service to equal opportunities but, frankly, the budget allocated for the year is pathetic. if that is any indication of the importance that the member states give to equal opportunities, we still have a long way to go. i am counting on the commission’s cooperation with the european parliament.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). i would like to say a few things about romania and bulgaria, which are being given special attention today by a resolution which parliament is going to adopt later today. last month we debated here with commissioner rehn the accession of romania and bulgaria following the european commission's progress report on the preparations of these two countries. this week, the heads of government will also be discussing this at their meeting. our group believes that the european commission has reached a balanced conclusion. the commission shares our ambition to stick to the accession of both countries on 1 january 2007, provided they tackle the outstanding reforms with diligence. we are convinced, as is the commission, that this must be possible. our group has always been consistent in its support for the accession of romania and bulgaria on the date of 1 january 2007. now these two countries must concentrate on the last things they have to do to be ready for accession in time. i think that the political impulse to do so is present in both countries. in both countries - and that was also the reaction to commissioner rehn's report - the lesson has been well learned. the reactions from sofia and bucharest to his report were very businesslike. the line was: we have noted the problem and are working on it. this approach reinforces my optimism that romania and bulgaria will take their homework seriously. moreover, considerable progress has been made in both countries over the past year, and this is encouraging. speculation about postponing accession is therefore out of the question. the two candidate countries have shown their ability to act with determination in the past and that gives me and my group confidence that the preparations will be completed in time. we therefore have no fundamental objections at this stage to the commission's proposal to wait until the next report in october to finalise our assessment. we would welcome it if the council adopted the commission's approach. in this approach, each person has a role to play. the role of romania and bulgaria is clear. we have previously asked the commission to make an extra effort to support romania and bulgaria in their preparations and to be clear about what they still expect from the applicant countries. we're going to repeat that question now. the council also has the responsibility to make a balanced assessment, but also the responsibility to ensure that the eu countries complete the ratification of the accession treaty in time. as agreed with the european commission last year, parliament will also be involved in monitoring the accession process to the end and i am confident that this will lead to a positive conclusion.
mr president, if there were no european union, there would certainly be a need for a broad cooperation of all european states to contribute to improving the living conditions of people living in border areas, to transfrontier aspects of the environment, energy supply and consumer protection, and to protecting health against dangerous substances which can be traded internationally. the people want a europe which helps to remove obstacles to peace, security, public services and international solidarity. that is different from building a world power or increasing freedom for international corporations. the people want a europe that helps them solve their problems. not a europe that causes trouble. the people of europe no longer recognize such a europe in the present phase of the union. the voters in two countries have sent the signal that things must be different. if we want to continue with the european union, it will have to be fed from below, by our citizens and their organisations. continuing with top-down constructions, which are designed from the top down, solves nothing. we will have to use the enlargement and the increased involvement of our citizens creatively to enable a new and better start.
the european council must resolutely put an end to the confusion about the status of the european constitution. while one member state declares the document dead, another ratifies the constitution as if nothing had happened. i call on the heads of government to put an end to this confusion, otherwise the confidence of the citizens in the union will continue to decline. i support the extension of the period of reflection for one year, on condition that we start working on a completely new text of the treaty. it's a treaty text, not a constitution. a handy treaty that brings together the previous treaties, one in which the union demonstrates its added value in a defined area in relation to crossborder policy challenges. i call on the austrian presidency in particular to show leadership by finally putting an end to the confusion and giving a strong impetus to the emergence of a new treaty framework. this program will feature the sound of austria, which i've been waiting for for six months.
the treaty establishing the european union was full of ambitions which the union has not yet fulfilled. the eu is failing in its strategy to make europe the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world, in its cooperation in the fight against avian influenza and in the implementation of a common foreign policy. why the ambition of a genuine constitution, if we cannot make good agreements in all those other areas, or violate the agreements that do exist, such as the stability pact, the europeans wonder, understandably. we have to be more modest. let us first carry out the institutional reforms that are really necessary. these changes, described in chapter 1 of the 2004 constitutional convention, then have the character of a normal convention and do not necessarily require a referendum in each member state. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union should eventually become a treaty text. it is precisely this that gives the constitutional weight to the current draft treaty, for which the union is not ready. i would have liked to see the direct election of the president of the european commission included. but at least we are solving the most urgent problems and strengthening both the european parliament and the national parliaments.
the strategy published by the commission is a positive sign. it shows that the commission is also concerned about a sustainable society. i can agree with the conclusion drawn by the commission in its document, namely that if we are to move towards a sustainable society, we must seize the opportunities that exist now. that should be the message to the council. if we are serious about sustainable development, there are many examples of actions we can take immediately. i would remind you that we do not own this earth, but we are commissioned to work it and to preserve it. so we really will have to change our way of life to ensure that our children and grandchildren can also build a life. that is why we need an ambitious package of measures and i would like to hear from the council and the commission how they intend to work with this parliament on this.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, unfortunately this debate is indeed still necessary. in the resolution you will find a list of names of individual victims, people who were killed only because of the colour of their skin or their sexual orientation. in the 21st century in europe that is barbaric and we should be ashamed. i am, on the other hand, proud to be a member of this house that stands up against those kinds of barbaric acts. intolerance is on the rise everywhere, and my own country is no exception in this regard. i therefore welcome all the mass demonstrations we have seen all over europe in favour of tolerance and equality and, most recently, the very successful equality march in warsaw. i was very happy to be part of that. tolerance, anti-discrimination and equality are not national, internal matters. if it is anything, the eu is a community of values, and if we are a community of values, then we should be discussing these matters at european level and we will not accept that member states hide behind the argument of subsidiarity, because that is only a pretext. as i said in the debate yesterday evening, the eu needs an ambitious strategy to become the world champion of fundamental rights. we should be just as ambitious in this area as we are when it comes to the economy and things like the lisbon strategy. we do not need to weep crocodile tears: we need action. we do not need to be timid and reluctant when it comes to intervening in matters that are going on in the member states. i am therefore very happy to hear that the council will speed up the work on the framework decision and the agency on fundamental rights. i would very personally like to address a word to the president-in-office and to call for the recognition of gay people as victims of the nazi regime. that has been mentioned before in this house. i am also happy to hear that the commission is willing to instigate infringement procedures and is considering a horizontal directive. finally, we should not hesitate to use an instrument we have at our disposal, namely article 7, in cases where a member state or a member state government fails to comply with eu principles.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. we must, however, be careful to ensure that there is sufficient democratic control over the decisions taken in the context of comitology, which are therefore largely outside the public domain and outside the control of parliament. this is sensitive and classified information. the desire that it not be made public is understandable, but it makes it all the more necessary that parliament should be able to supervise very well the implementing measures agreed in the chambers. the confederal group of the european united left therefore supports amendments nos 61 and 62, which provide for this democratic control. we think it would be a good thing if the advisory group were not limited to professional organisations but were expanded to include representatives of passenger interest groups and groups advocating the protection of civil liberties. another point of particular interest to us is the so-called sky marshals. in order to prevent future indiscrimination and accidents, it is necessary to establish common rules for the use of armed security officers on board aircraft. and with other speakers, i doubt that an armed presence on board increases safety.
in the past, only differences in track gauge were a barrier to passing and cross-border trains. since electrification, the differences in grid voltage and safety systems have also contributed to the shortening of the railway network. a common electronic security system is badly needed. it is expected that within 20 to 30 years a number of variants of ertms will become the generally applicable standard for this purpose. the first investments in ertms have been made and many more will follow. the certainty of constant growth is enormously beneficial to industry. if everyone wants to apply this system already in the development phase, there will be shortages and high prices can be calculated. moreover, there is a good chance that in the not too distant future, at least the first version of the software will have to be replaced by better ones. the people working on the railways need a lot of preparatory training to be able to use ertms safely. for the time being, it is mainly useful as a second system alongside one of the twenty old proven systems. this has already contributed to delays in the commissioning of new railway lines in the netherlands. where ertms is used without this support by another system, this will initially lead to major delays and thus to irregular implementation of the timetable. in switzerland, the average train delay was 18 minutes during the first four months and only then did it gradually decrease. such start-up problems mean that an interested public will not see it as a success for the time being. therefore, to make it a success, we must make a sharp distinction between the experimental start-up phase, in which it can be selectively tested to gain practical experience, and a full-scale phase, in which we can rely on it completely. the european union funding should be directed to that experimental phase for the purpose of making the 2.3.0 and 3.0.0 variants reliable and for any further developments without unnecessarily burdening the industry. before the full introduction can take place, we must be vigilant against the neglect of old and proven safety systems and prevent further reductions in the railway network from becoming a means of rapidly achieving a high rate of ertms in statistics. the necessary financing is probably only possible through an additional levy on road freight transport as in switzerland. that is why the earlier decision on the eurovignette has been amended.
for the ind/dem group, by mr de gucht and others there are a number of factors which are hindering the competitiveness of the railways. the lack of a uniform safety and signalling system is one of them. given the role that railways are supposed to play in the logistics process, i am pleased with the attention that is being given to ertms. i agree with the substance of mr cramer's report, which covers virtually all the relevant aspects of ertms. i agree with him that ertms is a tool that can help the railways in the future. the present service provision has barriers which impede competition with other modes of transport. some of these obstacles can certainly be attributed to the historically developed relationships within and outside the railway sector. the existence of nationally targeted security systems is undoubtedly part of this. this fragmentation is hampering the development and implementation of cross-border transport and is thus adversely affecting competition in rail freight transport. the introduction of ertms can counteract this negative aspect. it is therefore important to keep the transition period between the current systems and ertms as short as possible in order to minimise additional costs and functional inconvenience resulting from the use of dual systems. it is also important to have an adequately functioning ertms version. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the system is economically sound and technically up to date. a major topic of discussion during our discussions was the financial aspect of the introduction of ertms. there are only limited resources available in the community, in the member states and in the railway undertakings. careful consideration of its use is therefore necessary. in this context, my group has tabled a number of amendments which emphasize support for projects which are clearly promising and mature, both in political and economic terms, in order to make the best use of the resources available. i am also aware of the interest in this system outside europe. this means prospects for industry and more employment. however, at the moment it does not seem possible to make any precise statements about the effects on employment which can be expected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i am also pleased that attention is being paid to the importance of full participation of all concerned, namely the community, the member states, industry and railway undertakings. the development, introduction and implementation of ertms equipment can only be successful if all the links are working together. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cramer, for his work and the good cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs, and express the hope that all those involved will support the processes that have been launched and those that are yet to be launched.
mr president, i would like to support the remarks made by various speakers on this being a historic moment. i am not referring to the time of five minutes to midnight, but to the historic moment in which we reached this sound agreement and were able to modify the proposal. i say modify the proposal, because the commission did not like that terminology, but i think this is what has been done, through the good cooperation and professionalism of the people involved. i would also like to emphasise our adherence to the lamfalussy procedure and cooperation between the different players in the field, and to underline what mrs berès said about the role of the regulators and the importance of getting the tools to enforce the legislation and measures we have now adopted. this enforcement needs tools and instruments and it is up to member states to provide them. the last point i want to mention is something i think we have to discuss with the commissioner responsible, mr mccreevy. i hope we can invite him to the next strasbourg session and have a debate – maybe not at such a late hour as this but earlier in the day – on the developments in the stock exchanges. i was particularly surprised by something he said the day before yesterday in a speech in ireland. he compared the globalisation of the financial markets with an ocean steamer and said that the european union is on the bridge, in control and taking the lead in this process. we are not sure that this is in fact the case, because the commission is not proactive in what is happening at the moment in the market. we are keen to debate this with him.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. but what now? in 2004, there were some ten thousand irregularities in the spending of european funds, but these are of course only the known cases of fraud and incompetence. we can only guess how often european money is being misappropriated without our knowledge. i am afraid that this is only the tip of the iceberg on which the ship of the european union will eventually break. the european citizen is becoming increasingly critical of the eu and waste of money is one of the main reasons for this justified criticism. 2% of the structural funds are affected by fraud or some form of mismanagement. i think that, given the enormous sums involved, is a very worrying figure. we are talking about hundreds of millions of euros wasted, of which at least 20% is lost to direct fraud, according to the commission. self-enrichment at european, national and regional level. i think it would be desirable to have a europe-wide evaluation of the effectiveness and the fraud-sensitivity of esf funds in particular. the european anti-fraud organisation olaf should make the fight against fraud in europe its business. unfortunately, in many cases this watchdog has so far proved to be nothing more than a lap dog. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. this is in direct contradiction to the efficiency and transparency which the commission claims to pursue in its communication. it would be wrong, however, to point the finger only at brussels for failing to combat fraud, for the member states are certainly equally to blame. they either let the cheating slip by or at least do not act loudly enough. it is unacceptable that the old, relatively rich member states, such as germany and spain, are the ones where the lion's share of fraud cases occur and that these countries therefore report fraud cases on their territory incorrectly and incompletely. a clear policy of licking the pieces should be followed here. if member states do not act adequately against fraud and waste of european money, this should have an impact on the amount of subsidies they receive. this is also true of my own country, the netherlands, which refuses to name specific perpetrators in fraud cases. more important is the prevention of fraud. we can do this by simply cutting off the most fraud-prone cash flows, for example export subsidies in agriculture. it is known that there are relatively many cases of fraud in this area. in addition to all the other moral objections i have to export subsidies, this seems to me to be an excellent reason for putting an end to this ridiculous and harmful form of aid.
mr president, between ‘gay pride’ and ‘parade’, we propose to insert ‘equality’, as in the official title of the parade. so the wording would be ‘the gay pride equality parade’.
mr president, in recital b we propose to insert the words ‘and anti-gypsyism’ after the word ‘homophobia’.
mr president, i always have the privilege of driving to strasbourg through beautiful regions, the palatinate and alsace, where i collect wine. i am always impressed by the quality of the products of european winegrowers. in my own country there are now eight winegrowers, but i will not speak for them. it seems to me an important subject, since europe has asked for permission to use this technique. this is also evident from the large imports of wines to which this technique is applied and it seems to me that it is too stupid for words to deny european wine growers this possibility. at the same time, i would regret it if the quality of european wines were to be affected. i don't think this is going to happen either, because if you have real quality, you can show that there's a difference between using wood chippers and using wooden barrels. a fine aged wine, red or white, in good old barrels, has a better digestibility. that's the difference between using wood chippers and using wooden barrels. i would like to stress this point and also call on european wine growers, those who produce quality wine and can now sell their wine well, to at least continue to use wooden casks. i would also point to other developments in europe. when people switched from large wooden vessels to steel, they were not asked to put that on the label. that didn't happen. now there is a strong demand to put the use of wood chips on the label and i can go so far as to give the regions the freedom to simply introduce this obligation or not. in any case, it should not be mentioned that wine has been aged on wood if only wood chips have been used. that seems to me to be essential. in this respect i would like to join my colleague werner langen in saying that we should be cautious about bureaucracy on wine labels. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to call on the european commission, from a country where wine is consumed more than it is produced, to take this into account in the new wine policy.
author. among journalists and scientists gathering knowledge about north korea, this country came to be regarded as the most curious piece of the world. in negotiations with other states, it behaves erratically and unpredictably. inland, the people seem to live in unimaginable unity and discipline with unbounded loyalty to the mysterious leader and unparalleled grief when that leader dies. despite its almost complete isolation from the outside world, the country has built up a metropolitan living environment and developed its own nuclear industry. some people outside that country are praising the remarkable achievements publicized by the regime. according to this view, these successes have been achieved thanks to a superior system and despite the opposition of the hostile outside world since the end of the war situation in 1953. yet, these successes convince almost no one. apart from a small number of admirers, virtually no european would want to live there. after the success stories, came the food shortages. nor is it any longer completely silent about how north korea ultimately deals with people who don't seem to fit that model. despite constitutional freedom of religion and despite ratification of the international covenant on civil and political rights, arbitrariness is being applied to anyone who may be a nuisance to the regime. the death penalty is also used as a political instrument. repression and hunger have led tens of thousands to flee to china. the resolution does not choose to repeat decades of cold war rhetoric, but makes sensible proposals to the government on human rights, the death penalty, the release of prisoners, freedom of expression, the adaptation of legislation and the authorization of international inspections. it also calls on neighbouring countries not to return refugees and supports food aid. my group thinks that is the right approach.
- a writer. as a historian, i have some knowledge from my studies of the horrors of totalitarian regimes in the 20th century. but what must it have been for the citizens of these dictatorships? mr posselt has already said: it is difficult for us in the free west to imagine. this afternoon we will reflect briefly on the communist reign of terror in north korea. the combination, mr president, of north korea with the word human rights, so often used by this parliament, is essentially shocking and should silence us. but that would leave the battered north korean people to fend for themselves. of course, dear leader kim jong il has every interest in our political passivity. besides, we don't have to expose him and his cronies. terrorist regimes, creepily enough, always do it themselves in the first place. even though the coverage of and from the most hermetically sealed pyongyang is very scarce. after all, the life stories of north korean refugees speak volumes. here's the urgent question: what is the european union to do in this oppressive situation in north korea? i believe that the council and the commission should, above all, encourage china to use its growing influence in neighbouring north korea to its advantage. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process. after all, beijing is equally benefited. this may sound very pragmatic, but this message is merely intended to alleviate the material and spiritual suffering of north korean citizens. humans, co-creators of god, of the same movement as ourselves, cling to freedom of movement and not to forget, thought, speech and above all belief.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the following: on 10 july 2003, 21-year-old sibel yalvac, a physically handicapped woman from rotterdam, was arrested at the airport in the indonesian capital jakarta. on 6 april 2004, she was sentenced to 10 years in prison for drug trafficking. two independent dutch experts, a psychologist and a probation officer, examined sibel and they declare that she is less culpable. she can't tell cause and effect from each other, is gullible, has a lot of imagination and can't count to twelve. sibel has been abused by ruthless criminals for their drug trade and now faces years of hell. now every year in indonesia around the independence day of august 17th there is a chance to get amnesty. i have started a campaign with my national colleague, member of parliament harry van bommel, to ask the indonesian government to put its hand over its heart and grant sibel amnesty in view of her particular circumstances. the "help sibel" campaign, on behalf of sibel and her desperate family, asks for your support in this appeal.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, firstly i would like to thank ms wallis for her report. i agree that it is too early to draw conclusions; however, i would like to make a few observations. the first is about solvency. whether or not the company should be considered to have been solvent during the time leading up to the crisis has several consequences. that affects the policyholders’ possibilities of defending their rights and interests, but it also has an impact upon the responsibility of the uk authorities and, possibly, the commission. the uk authorities strongly emphasised that equitable life had never had any problems with solvency and always complied with eu law. the uk authorities also indicated that there are a number of different ways of valuing assurance companies. if there are several ways of calculating solvency, how is it possible to make a proper analysis? it is clear that the directive seeks to ensure that an assurance company is not managed in such a manner that it may jeopardise the undertaking’s solvency in the long term. it is also clear that the directive obliges member states to take such measures with regard to the undertaking, its directors or managers, or the persons who control as are appropriate and necessary in order to prevent or remedy any irregularities prejudicial to the interests of the assured persons. i doubt whether this has happened. the fact that the uk authorities always considered equitable life solvent also had repercussions on customers and authorities in other member states. it appears that both customers and authorities in ireland and germany were taken by surprise when the crisis broke out. another observation i have, which concerns the country of origin principle, is the question of monitoring and provision of information. the uk authorities, who were responsible for monitoring the activities of the company in other member states too, never informed those member states that there was a problem. maybe it was because they did not want to recognise this. frankly, in hindsight, it does not look as if the supervision has worked. the second problem with the home country of origin rule is the lack of redress for consumers, who have been sent back and forth by the national authorities. consumers who trusted that the european union would guarantee them an equivalent position and safeguards if they bought assurance on the internal market as they would if they had bought on the national market found themselves in a situation where nobody would accept responsibility for their efforts to obtain damages for their losses. from a consumer point of view, the home country of origin principle turned out to be a real ping-pong game. there seems to be a large vacuum in eu legislation here. the eu should take more measures to protect individual citizens.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east. but commissioner mccreevy has, of the questions we have asked about developments in the stock exchanges, actually only answered the first part of question 2, namely whether we should infer from your silence on these developments that you really think that this is only a matter for the shareholders. apparently you do. and i want to say here explicitly that that is not my view. i think you absolutely cannot say that it is a purely shareholder affair. there are many other stakeholders with vested interests: the users of the exchanges, the companies listed on them, private and institutional investors such as pension funds investing through the exchanges. but financial institutions that offer alternative ways of investing also have their interest: the investment banks that trade in-house and provide alternative platforms, and the hedge funds. i do not know whether you are familiar with the book by mr seifert, the former ceo of the deutsche börse. he describes very well how hedge funds, acting on behalf of other interests, also asserted their shareholder rights in the struggle over the proposals made by deutsche börse at the time to take over the london stock exchange. i do not know whether you read german or whether there is a translation, but it would be good to take into account that someone who has been involved in the transformation of a stock exchange owned by the users into a listed company now sees the disadvantages of this purely shareholder approach. i think you will have to look more closely at what the public interest is that is at stake. it is our duty as politicians to look at that public interest and that is clearly a duty which lies at european level and not just at national level. i am therefore not in the least interested in hearing your views on the best combination and whether it should be a european or a transatlantic fair. but i do think that it is your task to indicate what the conditions are, what is required in the interests of those other stakeholders, of the users, of the european economy, that is the commission's task. on the transatlantic dimension, you have already said that the rules of the united states should not become our rules. on that point too, there are several experts - harvey pitt, callum mccarthy - who indicate that it is not so clear at all. so what we expect from the european commission is that we get clear answers to this, what the consequences are and how to prevent that american influence from spreading to possible constellations in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to emphasize our proposal to set up a committee of experts. i think it is really very necessary and very urgent that we establish a stronger european surveillance. the stock exchanges are an example of a sector where this is very much needed. the consolidation of financial institutions elsewhere also shows that we cannot leave this to the national level alone because other interests will be involved. it is clear that in this globalising economy we urgently need a european vision and a european oversight and it would be very good if a committee of wise men could advise you on this.
the economic importance of the maritime sector is great and it also has enormous growth potential. in particular, in this era of increasingly rapid globalisation, these global transport flows and their effective management are of great importance. european industry has a strong position in this area. it is a sector which is developing to a high degree into a competitive sector and it is actually the only sector at present which is exempted from the application of the treaty's competition rules. the time is therefore ripe to put an end to this exceptional situation. we therefore also support the proposal by commissioner mccreevy to repeal the present regulation 4056/86. however, legal uncertainty about the interpretation of competition rules is undesirable and i am glad that the commissioner also recognises this, because the commission must continue to take account of the specific characteristics of this internationally operating sector in the future. that is why we must clarify the rules of the game in the future. the european parliament therefore calls for clear guidelines to be drawn up for the sector before the regulation is repealed. i am glad that the commissioner has indicated his intention to do so before the end of 2007 for liner shipping. but for parliament it is an essential pillar of this proposal and we therefore think that it should also be explicitly mentioned in the legislative text. the sector must be guaranteed legal certainty as to what is and is not allowed under the current regulation. i am glad to hear that you are in intensive consultation with the sector. but parliament also asks you, and will do so again tomorrow, to consult us on the content of the guidelines. can you promise that parliament will be consulted on this? that is often a good practice in other areas as well. i am glad that tomorrow, as it seems, we will be able to send this strong signal to the commission by a large majority. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european health insurance system. that is a must for this sector, but of course it must always fit within the text of the treaty, within article 81. it is very important to make this cooperation work efficiently. president. - as regards cabotage and free-flowing traffic, the commission proposes that the enforcement of competition rules be brought to the european level. that is a logical step because the treaty is already in force. that is also a matter for the european level, and you can count on our support in that respect. some colleagues are proposing to exclude cabotage, but i will not support that. parliament wants guidelines to be drawn up for the tramp sector too, because this sector too has the right to know what is happening to it, just as the other sectors do. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. clearness in advance avoids all kinds of costly legal procedures that the industry really does not want to wait for. there are already examples of such cases in the tramway sector in relation to pool agreements. there have been complaints and it is unclear to the industry how the european commission is going to proceed on this point. so, again, there too, the ambiguity must be addressed with guidelines. the international dimension is of course very important for this sector which operates internationally. we therefore ask you - and fortunately you are aware of this - to take this international competitive position into account when further preparing the proposals. the same applies to the repeal of the unctad code and we would like to receive a report on these international developments so that we can follow them closely. i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems which have arisen in the past.
i am a member of both the committee on economic affairs and the committee on civil liberties and i must say that i am beginning to be very concerned, with both hats on. i wonder, from the point of view of civil liberties, where we are going with a kind of permanent and general surveillance of all citizens. that just throws the whole presumption of innocence out the window! as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i am concerned about the burden on business. i think it is remarkable that the commissioner for the internal market is giving an introduction here which is only about the fight against terrorism, because we should actually be talking about business here too. because companies, commercial companies that are just doing their commercial activities, are increasingly being tasked with collecting data for law enforcement and for judicial purposes. i would also like to refer to the data retention directive and the passenger name records as examples. the effectiveness of all these measures is questionable. we seem to have a kind of blind faith in technology, and if we just collect as much data as possible from civilians, we'll fish out a terrorist sooner or later. a recent report in the united states, however, strongly suggests that terrorists do not use regular money transfers to raise their criminal funds, but have all kinds of other channels for doing so. if we adopt these kinds of measures, i wonder, frankly, whether we are still driving those money flows underground. i hope that we have at least made the proposal a little more workable for the companies that have to work with it. i am glad, for example, that the clauses on the thresholds of eur 1000 and usd 1000 are in it. i wonder if the 150 euro threshold for donations to charities is a bit low. and i would also like to emphasize in this context the importance of what we call purpose limitation, which is that the data is really only used for the purpose for which it was collected. finally, i join those who have already expressed their concern in strong terms about the recent swift scandal and i think it is really time for a much more fundamental debate about how we want to combat terrorism effectively here in europe without undermining fundamental rights.
i would also like to congratulate mr szejna on his report. in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy we had no difficulty in adding a lot of things to that. we have confined ourselves to a few points, particularly those which were also indicated by mr lehne, and i should like to thank him for his willingness to compromise. but i think, like mrs berès, that what we add to the amendments for the plenary does not contradict that compromise. i'll get back to you on that in a moment. mr szejna has taken a broad approach in his report, and that appeals to me. unlike mrs cederschiöld, i think it is important - and it was also discussed earlier in the debate this evening - that companies are not simply owned by shareholders. shareholders have shares, but companies are more than just a piece of paper, an investment object. companies operate in the real economy and there are interests beyond those of shareholders. i would therefore like to stress in particular recital f and general point 3, the role of employee participation in the decision-making process of companies and the view expressed in this report that this should also be an integral part of corporate governance and company law. i hope that mr mccreevy will agree with parliament on that point and will ensure that it does indeed play an important part in the future of the files. it is very important that this cannot be circumvented by means of, for example, the european company and the change of establishment, and we have therefore tabled a number of amendments on this point. i hope that mr lehne will look at it again - even if he is not listening at the moment - to see if he can support it.
the committee on transport and tourism has adopted a number of opinions. president, first of all, i would like to thank commissioner dimas for his realistic contribution just now. i very much support his remarks to the committee on the environment. a communication from the european commission does indeed examine various possibilities and also briefly discusses the need for more consistent application of energy taxes. at the same time, the commission recognises that the latter cannot be seen as a cornerstone of a strategy to combat climate change effectively. finally, the commission concludes in its communication that market-based instruments are by far the most effective. it has reached a conclusion on emissions trading, and i wholeheartedly support that conclusion. it's environmentally and economically efficient. the further interpretation of this, the scope, etc... has been worked on hard over the past months and is still being worked on. i have tried to reach a realistic opinion on behalf of the committee on transport. the aim is to develop as soon as possible a workable model that can be extended worldwide. apart from all the appreciation i have for mrs lucas herself, i was surprised to see the final version of her report. there is no realistic and workable line. the resolution is covered with the well-known christmas balls. the c02 multiplier is one such ball, and the ec study shows that it is very difficult to measure the non-c02 effects. furthermore, there is endless drumming on kerosene as a salvation solution to all environmental problems and more. now , with all due respect , the tax is nice for the treasury, but the environmental impact is by no means certain. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be able to take account of the interests of the community and its citizens. moreover, this debate distracts from the real issue, namely the rapid integration of aviation into the eu ets and, as commissioner dimas has just rightly pointed out, there is a directive in force which allows member states to levy fuel taxes on domestic flights and so far only the netherlands has done so. i would therefore urge you to concentrate on this. i have, and i am closing, mr president, i have taken the liberty of requesting a series of separate votes and votes in parts in the hope of getting rid of all the christmas balls in the resolution. if the vote proves that this is not possible, i will ask that my name be removed from this resolution.
i would like to thank mrs lucas for her very clear report. i am in favour of the commission's proposal to put a stop to the rapidly increasing contribution of aviation to climate change. the report by mrs caroline lucas is a good complement to the proposal and we agree with her that the inclusion of the aviation sector in emissions trading should not be the only instrument but should be part of a package of measures such as the introduction of kerosene tax, vat on airline tickets and congestion tax for airports. i agree with the rapporteur that the emission allowances to be issued should be auctioned to avoid the large companies getting rich off free allowances without any benefit to the environment. although my group considers the commission proposal to be a step in the right direction, we should not blindly focus on emissions trading, the environmental benefits of which are not clear. and co2 is not the only problem in aviation. the emission of nitrogen oxides (nox) is also of great importance, not only for the climate, but also for air quality. that is why we are in favour of including nox in emissions trading, as is already being done in the netherlands. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. a system that runs on co2 alone doesn't achieve maximum effect. it is better to tackle the nox at the same time. we agree with the rapporteur that research into cleaner engines is desirable, but this should not lead to the postponement of targeted measures against these emissions. if nox is not included in emissions trading as it now appears, airports should be encouraged to implement local emission levies as part of the package of measures mentioned by the rapporteur. my party supports the commission's intention to end the tax advantages enjoyed by the international aviation industry. this has for years been leading to unfair competition between the different modes of transport. we therefore support the rapporteur's proposal that the eu itself should start by introducing a kerosene tax on all domestic flights. this could be a good brake on the tremendous growth of a number of low-cost flights with which the railways can hardly compete. the low-cost airlines already account for a quarter of european air traffic, which has led to the growth of regional airports. it is important that member states provide insight into subsidies that go to these airports to bring in airlines. we must get rid of the idea that the increase in air traffic within the eu is an engine of regional growth. for many of these medium-distance routes, rail links are a much more environmentally friendly alternative, but they must be fairly competitive. the railways have been paying a much higher price for electricity since the introduction of emissions trading, but the airlines still do not pay a penny of excise duty despite their constant complaints about high fuel prices.
president. - the consequences of our climate change are becoming more acute every year. the winters are coming later and milder, and the summers are coming earlier and warmer. is this a process that is inevitable? i hope not. but we must do everything we can to ensure that change is slowed down. that is why i agree with the european commission's communication. if we are to take the fight against climate change seriously, all sectors must contribute. the aviation sector in particular, which emits at high altitudes and therefore has an extraordinary impact. i can support the plan to introduce an emissions trading system for aviation too. however, this must satisfy a number of conditions. firstly, it must cover as many airlines and routes as possible to prevent unfair competition, i.e. all flights to and from all airports in the union. secondly, account should be taken of the efforts already made by airlines to reduce their emissions. i would therefore prefer to allocate the rights by auction. thirdly, it should be possible to include substances other than c02 if scientific evidence is available. i would also like to point out that the vat exemption for kerosene and air tickets should be mentioned, but that should be done in a comprehensive plan which also takes account of the vat exemptions for other forms of transport. the commission has promised, in the context of the eurovignette debate, to carry out a study on the internalisation of external costs for all modes of transport. i would like to call for its rapid completion so that the results are available as soon as possible and we can adopt legislation which takes account of the outcome.
president. - i would like to begin by congratulating caroline lucas. it has produced an excellent report which well reflects the problems of aviation and the dilemmas involved. what are the problems of aviation? firstly, aviation is a major contributor to climate change: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of air transport. the environmental burden is certainly high for short distances, and it is precisely at short distances that alternatives exist and are now underused. the second problem is that few people are aware of the large environmental burden of aviation. that is why it would be good if the co2 emissions per kilometre were shown on the tickets and on the cars. commissioner, i would like to see some initiatives on this. it would be useful for us as parliamentarians to know exactly what the co2 emissions are when we travel by car, train or plane to brussels or strasbourg. the third problem is that the environmental burden is not reflected in the cost in any way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport sector is not subject to vat. this is to the detriment of the more environmentally friendly mode of transport such as trains or buses. this can and must end soon. however, it is of the utmost importance that aviation be brought under a system of tradable allowances as soon as possible. that puts a price tag on co2 and that encourages innovation, especially more efficient engines and more fuel-efficient and better fuel economy. i think it is obvious that we should try to join the existing system of emissions trading, but we must avoid the mistakes of this system. not free allocation, but auction. no open end, but a clear ceiling. and of course we have to tax kerosene. the fourth problem is that it is not easy to tackle the aviation sector. aviation is a source of employment and a source of pleasure for the consumer and the tourist. it is therefore important to act in a european manner and at the same time to invest in comfortable hsl connections between european cities. this will also ensure public support for an ambitious policy.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, the time has finally come. on 3 may 2006, more than two and a half years after the commission presented a proposal for the revision of the battery directive, the council and parliament reached a mediated agreement on the final text. first of all, i would like to thank the austrian presidency for the constructive way in which this dossier has been brought to a successful conclusion. the presidency, and consequently the council, has given parliament a very good welcome in the 23 amendments adopted at second reading. i also thank all my colleagues, especially those who were in the delegation and the conciliation secretariat, for their commitment and support. this is part of the reason why we have achieved a good result. i am also grateful to the european commission for thinking of compromises and proposing new texts. this has been a very good help in the process of reaching an agreement. what have we accomplished? i would like to mention a few important points. first of all: the directive will make it easier for consumers to choose the most cost-effective battery. the cheapest battery is not always the most profitable. the directive requires manufacturers to indicate the capacity of batteries, which allows consumers to assess the price/quality ratio and choose the most advantageous battery for each application. secondly: the commission has also agreed that batteries should be easy to remove from appliances. replacing the battery prevents consumers from having to throw away a good device because the battery is dead. thirdly: the manufacturer must take back the batteries after use and ensure that the battery is recycled. this also applies to the historical stock. fourthly: the directive requires all member states to establish an efficient system of inward processing. this is a significant improvement as currently only six member states have a national battery collection system. the differences in collection rates between these member states are still very high, ranging from 59% in belgium to 16% in france. fifth: all producers of batteries in the european union are registered, so that all producers are responsible for financing the collection and treatment of waste batteries. finally, i would like to mention the most important part of the directive on which we had already reached agreement at first reading, namely the ban on cadmium in portable batteries, which will come into force in 2008. this will eventually remove this harmful metal from household waste. this is of course good for the environment and good for public health. in addition, the alternatives to nickel-cadmium batteries are found to be much better. mr president, in view of the good result of the negotiations, i can warmly recommend to my colleagues in parliament that they approve the new battery directive tomorrow. i would ask the council to do the same as soon as possible so that the new legislation can be published. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. i hope and wish that this will be started quickly, so that we do not have to make all sorts of compromises at the last minute. i think that in the future there will be a need for a review of the applications which are exempted from the cadmium ban. i assume that the european commission is also aware of this and will come to parliament with a proposal in due course.
president. - the unemployment rate in the eurozone is lower than ever, but still at 8.8%. that is why the structural funds and also the social fund must be used to improve the employability of our people in europe. i am grateful for the amendments, and i also thank the rapporteur, mr josé silva peneda, who has been very active and very energetic in the debate. the social fund is now focusing on globalisation and improving people's employability. the fund can help to promote access to employment, prevent unemployment, prolong working life and increase the participation of women and older people in particular.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97) for a regulation amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the community (rapporteur: mr de gucht) for example, the competition rules - objective 2 - together with the research and development budgets, also provide the basis for a development in cohesion policy up to 2013, but i am thinking beyond that. we heard it today: transparency and the demonstration of results will be at the heart of the debate over the coming years, including the 2010 mid-term review. but the european citizen lacks the identity and the tangible nature of europe. here today is plan d, the plan for development, for development. it is more than the pumping of funds that the national member states are talking about. they're putting the money back in the books and they're not willing to answer to anybody. europe promotion is lagging behind. i have a question for mrs hübner: can you suggest additional citizen actions in this context? regions and cities have already taken this direction. the citizen and the partners in regional policy ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am very much in favour of the rapid integration of the aviation sector into the eu ets, but i cannot support the final version of this resolution, particularly because of the paragraphs which refer to equal treatment of the different modes of transport and the introduction of the kerosene tax. i would therefore ask that my name be withdrawn as rapporteur for an opinion on this resolution.
the commission's vice-president mr president, madam rapporteur, whose heroism i commend to you for being here at this hour, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that there is a broad consensus today on the commission's proposal, thanks to the political will of all parties and the cooperation of technical experts. i want to thank you, mrs sommer, for your personal and important contribution to the establishment of this consensus. community legislation harmonizing the technical requirements for inland waterway vessels dates back to 1982. this legislation establishes a certificate with which an inland waterway vessel may operate on all community waterways except the rhine. two thirds of europe's water transport is carried on the rhine! our proposal, which dates from 1997, therefore has three objectives: firstly, to update technical requirements to adapt the safety of ships to technological developments; secondly, to allow the recognition of the community certificate for rhine navigation in the future; thirdly, to establish a comitology procedure to be adapted in the future, on a regular basis, in line with technological developments and the development of the rules in force on the rhine. this matter has been blocked for a long time in the council because of the question of access to the rhine waterways for vessels with community certificates. but once this point was resolved, the council was able to reach a political agreement. the adoption of this directive will be a real step forward in the harmonization of the rules, as we want in the naiade action plan. it will make it possible to establish a single system for all the waterways of the european union. the technical requirements will be harmonised to a high level of safety, particularly for passenger boats. the future validity of the community certificate on the rhine will promote competition and create a genuine level playing field for inland waterway transport within the internal market. and we will maintain this level in future, in cooperation with the central commission for navigation on the rhine. as regards the amendment adopted by the committee on transport, we support it and i am glad that a compromise has been reached between the three institutions. i would like to take this opportunity to assure you that the commission is aware of the concerns expressed by some owners of large pleasure craft in some member states. the text you adopt will take account of most of these concerns. unlike directive 94/25/ec, which concerns market access for pleasure craft in the community, the new directive on technical requirements for inland waterway vessels is concerned with the safety of navigation on all waterways. a vessel of 20 metres in length requires additional requirements to those required for placing on the market. moreover, the exclusion of pleasure boats, with a length of less than 24 metres and not 20 metres from the scope of the directive, would make the rules applicable to the rhine different from those applicable to other community waterways. this could create difficulties for the recognition of the community certificate for navigation on the rhine and could create an obstacle to the prospect of having a single certificate for vessels in the community, namely the community certificate. finally, the directive allows a number of derogations for existing pleasure boats. i am replying to mr graham watson, who drew my attention to the fact that existing pleasure boats can continue to operate as long as their failure to meet the requirements does not represent a clear danger. i would add that article 7 allows member states whose inland waterways are not connected to the waterways of other member states to derogate from all or part of this directive. ladies and gentlemen, i can assure you that the commission will, in any event, take care in the comitology procedure to pay particular attention to the chapter on pleasure boats, either to avoid any contradiction or incompatibility with directive 94/25/ec or to clarify and clarify any perceived inaccuracies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not distorted. we in parliament should applaud this substantial contribution to sustainable, safe and competitive transport across europe. however, such transport is not a matter of course. it is important to create the right conditions for this. the report by mr sommer is one of the building blocks of this, because harmonized technical rules for inland navigation mean a level playing field for everyone, with the result that the fleet is clean, reliable and safe. this report is all the more welcome because it marks the completion of a process which has lasted over 10 years. i am particularly pleased that the institutional relations in the inland waterway sector have not been an obstacle to this agreement. i believe that this apparently fruitful cooperation will continue in other areas as well. we shall discuss that at a later stage. as far as the content is concerned, i am satisfied with the level at which the requirements for vessels have been set. although the sector would have to make the necessary efforts to meet these requirements, it does mean that the quality of the fleet is beyond doubt. given the potential of water transport, this is a very welcome and essential element. i am also satisfied with the procedure for further adaptation and improvement of the directive. surely it is not wrong to leave such a technical subject to specialists. i understand that there are a number of amendments on the table at the moment. i hope that the specialists will also find a solution to the possible discrepancy between this directive and directive 94/25/ec. i wholeheartedly support the amendment tabled to that effect. finally, i would like to thank mrs sommer for her efforts. i hope that this step will make a positive contribution to the quality of inland navigation.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr seppänen, for his excellent report. it rightly emphasizes that member states have a responsibility in the first place when it comes to the storage or treatment of nuclear waste. that certainly applies to the right to refuse outside waste. this fundamental right must not be undermined by european legislation, but in my view the responsibility of individual countries goes further. the producer of nuclear waste has a continuing responsibility to ensure that it is properly processed and stored, even if this happens in another country. the way in which eu countries now ship their rubbish to, say, russia, where it is then stored under miserable conditions, is absolutely outrageous. the local population and the environment are the victims of european nuclear laxity. if countries choose to use a dangerous and environmentally unfriendly energy source as nuclear energy, they should clean up their own mess instead of saddling the population of poor countries outside the eu with it. but if we really want to tackle the problem of nuclear waste in europe, we must first of all address the source, otherwise we will be left with the faucet on. it is particularly disturbing to see nuclear energy, after having been rightly marginalized for some time in the energy debate, slipping back onto the european agenda. but nuclear energy is not an environmentally friendly, safe, cheap and therefore acceptable alternative. the waste problem is a good example of this.
the debate on the future of europe calls for an ambitious and effective presidency in the second half of 2006. however, your presentation this morning gives me the worst suspicion. i'll start with ambition, or at least the lack of it. i blame you for clinging to the rejected european constitution. in doing so, you, as the finnish presidency, are blocking a new ambitious debate on the future of the european union. but that's not all. the finnish presidency, which is committed to transparency, maintains europe's painful spaceship. while you know that the text of the twice rejected constitution must at least be amended, you intend to ratify this european constitution during your presidency. how can this be explained to the citizen, to the dutch citizen? i'm also concerned about your lack of agency. are you really going to be on the shop floor alone waiting for chancellor merkel? how effective is a presidency which, through its foreign minister, has already indicated in an interview with the süddeutsche zeitung of 1 july that it does not expect much from the round of consultations with the member states. i do not often have the pleasure of agreeing with the analysis of the chairman of our committee on constitutional affairs, mr leinen. i do not think that the council is going to be able to do that. the finnish presidency must make a clear choice between the rejected constitution and a new treaty framework. i prefer the more ambitious second option. i therefore call on the finnish presidency to show the necessary ambition and real action.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the situation in syria, and the council has been asked to take a decision on the situation in syria. peretz referred to the hamas terror command operating in damascus under the leadership of khaled meshal. does the council and the commission share this view and, if so, what consequences does it have for european relations with syria? a second question to the council and the commission concerns the functioning of the european monitoring on the border between egypt and gaza at rafah. a leading israeli analyst calls this eu mission a complete failure. weapons and terrorists are pouring into the gaza strip under the noses of europeans and egyptians alike, and perhaps literally under their very eyes. what is your reaction, council and commission? an urgent matter, given the palestinian rocket attack last night in the center of the israeli city of ashkelon.
mr president, i hear from that side of the house that there is still a lot of doubt about the evidence. to me, this is like a puzzle that's almost complete. there are still a few pieces missing, but the image is clear. the missing pieces must be supplied by the member states and it is a complete mystery to me why the member states are so reluctant to provide the additional evidence. this is a matter of moral leadership for europe. security and human rights are the reason for the existence of the european union. if we allow these things to happen on european soil, we are betraying those who started european integration. moreover, the american method is not effective, because terrorism looks like a seven-headed monster. every time you cut off one head, another one grows on it. we must therefore have our own security policy here in europe, with our own standards, our own methods and on our own terms. finally, i think it is essential that we quickly start a parliamentary dialogue with the americans to talk about security and human rights and about how we can fight together, with shared values, the monster of terrorism.
president. - this debate is part of a wider discussion on the best way to combat international terrorism. one thing is clear, and that is clearly stated in the report by mr claudio fava, where he says that we can never win the fight against international terrorism if we sacrifice the principles that we want to defend in the fight against terrorism. that's what we've been focusing on. what evidence is there that the cia or other intelligence agencies have, with or without the knowledge of our governments, taken actions that violate fundamental rights and freedoms? and to what extent has this been a violation of national and international law? these are very serious questions which fully justify the inquiry. we cannot ignore the questions that have been raised because this would seriously damage the citizens' confidence, at a time when we need their full confidence in order to fight terrorism effectively, but also, of course, justly. the preliminary results of the study show the need to continue the study beyond the summer. it is clear that extraordinary rendition has taken place through european airports. it is very likely that several european governments were aware of this and it is likely that european and international human rights agreements were violated. moreover, the investigation has clearly revealed serious gaps in our regulatory and control practices. the twilight zone we left open has allowed these activities to take place. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. firstly, to what extent have the member states and the candidate countries been involved? and secondly, what do we need to do to close the loopholes in law and regulation to prevent a repeat?
mr president, the matter we are discussing here is of vital importance. because the proper treatment of suspects is at the very foundation of the european union's community of values. it is therefore necessary to clarify what has happened and what has not, in the interests of our citizens and in the interests of the european union itself. i therefore commend all those who have worked hard on this research and will continue to do so. but i am glad to say that so far there have been more hypotheses than proofs. that is partly understandable, because we are in a difficult position. if this makes any sense, it is that europe is not finished. there must be more powers of inquiry for a commissioner, who must be able to go to the member states and find out the truth. there must also be more powers of inquiry for this parliament, which is very powerless when compared with the inquiry methods of national parliaments. but we must now row with the belts we have. the vote in committee was not satisfactory to us because a number of good amendments which we had tabled were not adopted. this is about finding the truth, this is about regaining trust. i call on everyone to give their full support to those amendments which narrow the gap between what has been proved and what is claimed. i am referring in particular to a more realistic account of the number of cases on which information has been collected so far, the comments of the terrorism coordinator de vries, mr solana and mr bellinger and also the clear statement that no evidence has been found so far of the existence of secret prisons in member states. i think that this will increase the credibility of the commission's work and that this will increase the support in the plenary. it is up to our committee to continue the work and then there are two ways of going about it. either more evidence will come to light and firm conclusions can be drawn. either there is no evidence, and then credibility also requires that the tone of the conclusions be tempered. and that in itself is not necessarily a bad conclusion.
it is important, mr president, that we respond to the swift case with this debate today. the present resolution raises a number of pertinent questions which must be asked, because citizens are quick to become concerned when they read such stories in the newspapers. it is again, as in earlier debates today, about the balance between security interests on the one hand and the interests of the civil liberties of privacy of citizens and businesses on the other. this is also a matter of activities in the fight against international terrorism, which may be carried out out out of sight of the monitoring bodies and may be contrary to international agreements on guarantees of fundamental rights and freedoms. i don't want to immediately compare this case to the cia flight issue. the swift case is not an isolated case, however, but an example of the way in which the americans in particular are trying to combat terrorism. today's debate is yet another example of the necessary discussion on the nature of the struggle we are waging. in this case too, it is necessary to ask whether all the rules have been respected. it is suspected, and it has been confirmed, that the european institutions were aware of this. we want to know exactly what their responsibility is in this case and to what extent they have already been involved in monitoring the implementation of existing rules. but above all we want to avoid operating as a group in a kind of grey area and creating a legal vacuum where citizens are no longer aware of what is happening to them. the motion for a resolution also makes a number of pertinent comments on this. we also want - the commissioner has already said something about this - clarification of the role of the european institutions. we also want to close any legal loopholes so that if such an exchange of data is necessary in the future, it will only take place on a sound basis and in full compliance with certain guarantees and minimum standards. we want to be able to call on national member states to implement the agreed rules. again, we really need to prevent people from feeling that they're dealing with a legal vacuum. all regulatory gaps need to be closed.
mr president, whether this is legal or not, i find that the citizens of europe have never been informed that the details of their bank accounts are being monitored. that is a first condition as far as i am concerned. i wonder how we would react if this were not the united states but another country looking at our bank accounts, and if we would be as tolerant. the question of effectiveness is also raised. the council has just said that this is necessary in the fight against terrorism. i point out that stuart levey, the united states under secretary of the treasury, pointed out two weeks ago that they are very successful in tracing financial transactions. but they did drive the terrorist transactions underground and thus out of our reach, out of our sight. we urgently need a coherent, efficient and common policy in the european union with democratic decision-making and good protection of personal data. it's really urgent. finally, i also join those who say that this is not an isolated incident. we also see in the extradition flights and in the passenger data that the united states is not keeping its promises. we must speak with one voice as the european union and ensure that we fight terrorism legally with our ally.
mr president, all the fine words of the council as laid down in the tampere programme and reaffirmed in the hague programme have so far achieved very little. the council is taking very small steps now and then, with a certain amount of restraint and on the basis of the lowest common denominator. i am very sorry that the council is absent even now from this mini-debate. it is clear that the national agendas are seriously undermining the european agenda on this point. but, please note, member states have indeed committed themselves to this european agenda. the need for a commission proposal to improve cooperation between member states in the exchange of information is indicative of the passivity of the member states in the establishment of a common asylum and immigration policy. this exchange of information is, as patrick gaubert has just said, of great importance and is simply necessary. the immigration issue is one of the main challenges in 2006 and will remain so for the time being. we cannot do it by strengthening the external borders alone, and that should not be our intention. commissioner frattini has already said this and presented a comprehensive package of measures. the council and the commission will therefore have to work on all these ambitious proposals in full and at a rapid pace. the common asylum policy, the uniform asylum procedure and the uniform status of asylum, which will also provide protection for those who are entitled to it, should be established by 2010 at the latest. the european union must therefore quickly establish a common european return policy, while recognizing that everyone, whether legal or illegal, has the right to be treated with respect and dignity. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of immigration, by means of information and awareness-raising campaigns in the countries of origin and transit, by concluding association and cooperation agreements with those countries, by establishing a clear link between immigration policy and the development policy to be implemented and, very importantly, by rapidly introducing a european green card. my questions are on paper. i shall not repeat it here for the sake of time. i do expect a clear answer, particularly in connection with the footbridge provision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's right to vote is respected. that was also shown on dutch television recently. journalist sorious samura travelled with illegal immigrants from morocco to ceuta, then to mainland spain and then via france to london. the image the viewer received was delightful. as difficult as the living conditions were, the border crossing was often taken for granted. with the help of paid smugglers, almost anything was possible, and once released from the shelter, the immigrant can also leave the country of arrival. the prospect, however, is a life in the underground. that is highly undesirable. that is why the smugglers must be dealt with. their actions must be punishable and they must be prosecuted. i have two questions for commissioner frattini. we're inundated with information about immigrants arriving on the spanish islands. however, information on the approaches of the smugglers involved and the captains of the boats is scarce. this is in contrast to the approach to trafficking in human beings by land, which has now been condemned. what opportunities do you see for starting to tackle trafficking of human beings by sea to the european union in the short term? and is it possible to use the expertise of frontex to actively tackle the organisations that transport people to, for example, the canary islands and spain?
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. in europe, it is about visas, coastguard, customs police, the fight against human trafficking, labour market policy, integration. that is the policy of commissioner frattini and aeneas, broadly speaking. we believe that the security measures, which are often directed against migrants or to control migration, should be paid for from an independent budget, not stolen from development funds. so today we're actually talking about the other side, about the evolutionary aspects of migration: south-south migration, migration as a cause of underdevelopment and instability. it is about education, health care, mrs carlotti's concrete and good proposals, migrants moving from one country to another, internal refugees, echo, the coordination of the unhcr, ngos, regional organisations, the avoidance of ethnic persecution or the isolation of groups, whether in asia, latin america or africa, uprooted populations, vulnerable groups, women and children in particular. the commissioner has rightly said that these issues fit perfectly into development policy, which is typical of official development aid expenditure. but anything that has to do with migration policy, in the legitimate interest of european security, is clearly not part of official development assistance and is not primarily aimed at poverty. we must look after our own interests, but not organise or finance them at the expense of poor countries in unstable regions, because that is going to hit the root causes of poverty. the carlotti report seeks to tackle the root causes of the new geographical and thematic development instrument. from india to bangladesh, from bolivia to ecuador, we can make europe a good partner through the new development instrument. so it's relevant that we spend at least 50% of the 17 billion that we're going to spend on development aid over the next six years on those famous millennium development goals and double our efforts on basic education and health care to 20%. put your money where your mouth is, bono would say, make poverty history. i think the commissioner would like nothing else.
in writing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the european parliament's role in the european union. some governments subordinate the rights of people to freedom to the fight against anyone who deviates and who might therefore be suspected of terrorism. those who think this way have the illusion that freedom and democracy can be protected by restricting or even abolishing them. this trend feels closely linked to the united states, and especially to the current us government policy, which has led to the occupation of iran and afghanistan and to the toleration of the unlivable situation in the palestinian territories occupied by israel. i strongly disagree with that approach. we cannot fight terrorism if we only increase the soil on which it grows, instead of removing as much of it as possible. such an approach only breeds more and more new desperate people who may become sympathetic to terrorist hotheads who say they know the best solution to improve the living situation. it is a gross violation of human rights that is taking place right here before our eyes. individual freedoms of people no longer seem to count in the fight against terrorism. the eu member states must acknowledge their complicity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the crisis within the wto increases the risk that this institution can only act as an arbiter and can no longer take the initiative for new regulation. in this way, there is a danger that world trade will again be dominated by numerous bilateral agreements. i have three questions for commissioner mandelson. firstly, have all the parties involved in the trade negotiations understood the urgency of the successful conclusion of the doha round? my second question is a continuation of my first question: what is the commissioner's view of the role of the united states and the g20 and how do you assess their willingness to act? my third question is the most urgent: does the european commission have an agenda in place in the event of the doha round failing, and what does this agenda look like? i would like to make two proposals to the european commission for this trade agenda. first of all, the road to multilateral agreements must be kept open as long as possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by bilateral agreements. the commission has already made a number of proposals. my second proposal concerns the role of developing countries, which should not be the victims of any bilateral agreements. the european commission should provide technical assistance to these countries so that they do not fall behind in the negotiations with major partners.
the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country where it is transmitted. it is understandable that they do, because if there is one vehicle for freedom of expression, for opposition and for developing opposition in totalitarian states, it is of course the internet. and it's the internet companies that have also always been the ones that have held the freedom of the internet, the freedom of information, so high in the flag. yet it is not uncommon for us and european internet companies to facilitate this violation of freedom of expression by, for example, agreeing to censorship of their services. american companies, companies like google, microsoft and especially yahoo, are in a wasp's nest in china. of course, there are a number of other companies involved: secure computing and fortinet in tunisia and burma, cisco systems as well, but also european companies, such as telecom italia in cuba and wanadoo, a company of france telecom in tunisia. we simply cannot have western companies helping repressive governments to violate human rights. the european institutions must first establish a code of conduct to commit themselves not to participate in online repressive actions. it should also be emphasised that companies providing search, chat, publishing or other services on the internet should make every effort to ensure that they fully respect consumers' rights to use the internet. in china, 48 cyber-dissidents are now behind bars, simply for deviating from the official internet path. i find it unthinkable that western companies are assisting these repressive and authoritarian regimes and playing an active role in the commission of censorship. this cooperation is contrary to the fundamental european values of freedom of expression and information. the freedom of expression must remain a priority on the internet, or rather, especially on the internet. lawmakers in the united states are working on a global online freedom act. europe cannot be left behind, of course. if we want to have legislation, i would rather try to draw up a code of conduct to see if we can work it out with these companies. but we must make clear what we stand for. after all, the problem is not primarily with the internet companies but with the oppressive regimes themselves. often trade and communication with those countries will have a positive impact and i am generally in favour of that, but of course not if we allow ourselves to be manipulated by these regimes in terms of the content of that trade and communication.
mr president, mr barroso, the president of the commission, often speaks of a europe of results, but he seems to be referring exclusively to economic policies. i would like to ask the commission to be equally ambitious when it comes to fundamental rights. i am thinking of a number of incidents in particular that took place this summer, when gay people wanted to go out on the streets and demonstrate for gay rights. in a number of cases, those gay pride marches were banned and the authorities failed to protect the marchers’ rights. there have been other cases of homophobia, for example, involving the minister for education in poland. i am very surprised to see how reluctant and timid the commission is when it comes to such incidents, which are clear violations of fundamental rights. i would like to ask the commission to make use of article 7 of the eu treaty, which makes it possible to start an investigation into such incidents – i am not even talking about sanctions – but i would like there to be an investigation to see if these ministers can be held responsible for violations of fundamental rights.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism . mr president, i think we are discussing an important subject today. a significant proportion of the co2 we all blow into the air comes from the exhaust pipes of our cars. road transport is responsible for around 25% of european co2 emissions, half of which comes from passenger cars. the reduction of co2 emissions from our fleet can therefore make a significant contribution to the kyoto objectives to which the european union has committed itself. last year, in its report on climate change, the european parliament highlighted the need to make major improvements in energy efficiency in the transport sector. in addition, technological innovation is crucial to achieving our climate goals. fiscal measures can be particularly effective in this respect. by differentiating taxes according to their environmental impact, we can discourage harmful practices, promote economy and stimulate technological innovation. we therefore welcome the commission's proposal to differentiate the annual road tax according to co2 emissions. part of the annual road tax is then calculated on the basis of the amount of co2 emitted per kilometre by the vehicle. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. it is important, however, that we apply a progressive basis of calculation. this means that heavier engines, which use more fuel and contribute more to climate change, are relatively more heavily taxed. in this way there are no high barriers to driving in modest models, whereas there is a price to be paid for touring in the most expensive and largest cars, which cause the most damage to the environment. we do not support the proposal of the greens to bring the directive into force sooner. we believe that member states should be given time to prepare properly. a second and, i think, most controversial part of the proposal is to abolish the registration tax on new cars in parallel with the differentiation of the car tax. while this will solve some internal market problems, the commission believes it will also speed up the renewal of the fleet, so that old and environmentally unfriendly cars will be replaced more quickly by new and clean cars. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. i think that, and i look at the experience in my own country, that registration tax can also be used to promote the use of environmentally friendly cars. in the netherlands, for example, these cars are no longer taxed, and this has given a huge boost to the sale of such cars. my group will therefore be voting on this in a variety of ways, but it is important for the commissioner to know that there may be different views on this. finally, the commissioner said something about the council and mixed reactions. i wish him a lot of strength, because in part this is an important debate, but we also know that it is a bit of a debate that is enjoyable in parliament, but in the council a proposal like this will probably quickly be vetoed by one of the member states, which absolutely do not want to talk about taxation at european level, but i hope that the commissioner will manage to achieve a breakthrough in principle on that point. a lot of strength.
the number of cars has increased alarmingly in recent decades, while the use of trams, trains, metros and buses has lagged behind the growth in mobility. the result is a huge amount of space for parking lots and motorways, with noise pollution, air pollution and unsafe traffic. the car is the most widely used means of transport and the road infrastructure has become very extensive, complicated and expensive, so we cannot avoid the question of who pays for it. the tax on passenger cars is now being increased in several member states to take account of the pollution they cause. unfortunately, the proposal for a directive has become a half-hearted one, because it seems to be pursuing other aims. without contributing to reducing pollution, the aim is to harmonise taxes in the member states and to open up new growth opportunities for the car market by reducing prices from 2016. the draft directive, which aims to gradually and partially offset car emissions in the motor vehicle tax, would have to have a quarter of the tax based on co2 emissions by the end of 2008 and half by 2010, but why are we stopping at half? why has the commission not proposed that nox and particulate matter emissions and fuel efficiency be taken as the basis for the motor vehicle tax, rather than waiting for amendments? why has the commission not supported greenpeace germany's initiative to develop a car that uses half as much petrol in ten years? instead, the commission wants to phase out the registration tax on cars across the european union, making cars cheaper in 16 member states. so far, taxation and its variations have been a matter of national autonomy and national considerations. if the union goes beyond the fight against tax havens and other forms of large-scale tax evasion, it is overstepping its powers. the aim should be to reduce harmful emissions rather than to provide the car industry with customers who want to buy the latest model car every year even after the market is saturated. my group rejects a ban on registration taxes. meanwhile, car emissions have increased by 30% over the past decade. despite the kyoto protocol and despite technical improvements. the increase in the number of cars and the average mileage of those vehicles, in turn, has largely offset the technological gains. that is why my group does not think that half-time is an option any longer. in our view, the tax on cars is not based on half of their co2 emissions, but entirely on the pollution they cause. the easiest way to do this is to convert the motor vehicle tax into a fuel tax, depending on emissions. this is the way the polluter pays, not the car owner. new cars will have to meet strict fuel efficiency requirements and soot filters will soon be mandatory for diesel cars. in addition, the number of car kilometres driven will have to be reduced, and this can only be achieved by strong, healthy and affordable public transport. the european union has been supporting the sector's austerity and privatization efforts, but so far the opposite has been the case.
mr president, the tax on car purchases is being evaded on a massive scale in the netherlands. a dutch newspaper reported this summer. escaping is particularly lucrative because the burden is high and the chance of capture is small. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this evasion, not so much by abolishing the levy as by taking action on the part of the competent authorities. in the debate of 5 november 2003, i called for a transparent system of charges with clear objectives. linking the level of charges to environmental impacts is a transparent and clear objective. further research and discussion on the environmental effects of car taxes therefore deserve all support. the member states can then, on the basis of the results of the investigations, adjust their charges to take account of environmental damage. but to impose this measure from brussels is going too far. the commission proposal falls outside the scope of article 93 of the treaty. registration and motor vehicle taxes are not included in the harmonised taxes. it is not the differences in, for example, motor vehicle taxation that are hampering the functioning of the internal market, but above all the inadequate system of reimbursement of taxes on the import and export of cars. the commission proposal is therefore contrary to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i shall therefore withhold my support for this report and the committee's proposal.
the suspension of the negotiations on the doha development agenda is a blow not only to the wto but also to all the negotiating partners. the wto has lost some of its credibility, while global trade has benefited from the creation and enforcement of international trade rules. i fear that the developing countries will have to pay the price for this suspension. i call on commissioner mandelson to take account of the interests of these countries both multilaterally and bilaterally. the absolute lack of economic prospects in africa, for example, is forcing more and more people to seek safety in europe. i personally have my questions on the g20's composition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i also voted in favour of the call by the us trade envoy, susan schwab, for china to show this new responsibility. in your interview with the german magazine internationale politik, commissioner, you said that you wanted to continue working to get doha back on track. i would ask you to clarify the basis for your optimism, especially since you yourself say that you do not expect the negotiations to be concluded before the end of the year. do you have any concrete reason to believe that the americans will move? i would also like to ask you once again to give serious thought to the european agenda after doha, which may be more desirable than we think.
president. - it is extremely disappointing that the wto negotiations have been suspended indefinitely and i am particularly concerned about the position of the developing countries. the negotiations of the world trade organization were aimed at improving the position of the developing countries, as we know, and all those involved should do something about it: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community, such as the introduction of a common system of import duties for agricultural products, the united states of america's internal support for farmers, developing countries such as brazil and india's access to their markets for industrial products, etc. and unfortunately, unfortunately, there has been no progress and further negotiations may now take a long time to come. i do not want to put a finger on either side, mr president, which is also difficult when so many parties are sitting around the table, but it must be said that the way the commissioner has acted has unfortunately not led to the desired results and that it is now becoming more difficult for developing countries to gain a stronger position in the world economy. i am glad that the commissioner has expressed his commitment to the developing countries from time to time, and i would like to keep him in that position. we cannot change the facts, and that is why it is important to look to the future, especially the future of the developing countries. the negotiations reached agreement in principle on a number of points which are of great importance to developing countries. they 've been discussed before . aid for trade, no tariffs for the poorest countries, trade facilitation, special and differential treatment and so on. that would have been a big step forward, but it's on the rocks now. i understand that the commissioner would like to see these agreements continue as long as possible, and that is good, but my question is: how does the commissioner think that is possible in these areas? can the plans still be implemented and if so, how? a final point concerns the epas, which are linked to the wto. we have not yet seen any concrete proposals, and that is why i ask: what impact does the commissioner think the suspension of the wto negotiations will have on developments in the epas? does the commissioner think that there is room for the acp countries to take an extra step in the epo negotiations?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in bananas. it was agreed that all export subsidies for agricultural products would be abolished in 2013 and that, after the eu, the us and japan would also guarantee free market access for 97% of all products to the least developed countries, there was agreement on a comprehensive package of aid for trade and finally the americans had said that they wanted to start to reduce their support for the cotton sector. after five years of hard work, that was the result. but of course the signature is missing and in my view, ladies and gentlemen, as i have said here, the poorest countries should not be the victims. implementation of these measures is absolutely essential to achieve the mdgs by 2015. now the commissioner has said, in response to a written question from me, that he is prepared to propose a frontloading of this package to the poorest countries. commissioner, can you confirm that again in this debate? can you also confirm that the eu is prepared to unilaterally end its export subsidies in 2013 if necessary? at the same time, do you not think that such a frontloading approach for the least developed countries could help to get things moving again? i am convinced that the european union must be able to take action in the field of human rights and democracy, and that the european union must be able to take action in the field of human rights. you yourself have said that several times. you are right to say: they will pay the price for that, and that should not happen, so we have to commit to that multilateral trade agreement. let the fight against poverty not become the victim of deadlocked negotiations. if the world trade round cannot be saved, at least save the millennium goals.
first of all, mr president, i should like to congratulate mrs gröner on her report. it contains a number of very positive proposals. and by that i mean, first of all, the removal of all drug-related subjects. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat drug abuse. the emphasis on combating trafficking in human beings in this programme is, in my view, the other major point of gain. i would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of real action. the efforts of many to take measures against forced prostitution and human trafficking around the world cup have not been rewarded with constructive action by those concerned. i hope that the coalition of parliament and the commission, member states, ngos and citizens can mobilize and perhaps force respect for the rights of fellow human beings, and thus reduce abuses. i am less positive about the attitudes towards the division of responsibilities. i am firmly convinced that it is not the role of the government to interfere in the private sphere of individual people without good reason. only when criminal law has been violated is there a reason to do so. these limits are set by member state and it is therefore up to the member states to ensure that they are respected. there is no justification for an active role for europe in this respect, which is why my group has asked for separate votes on a number of such amendments. and when those elements are removed, i will support them.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the transport of dangerous chemicals and pesticides. in the parliament there was a large majority in favour of changing the legal basis, and in the council there was even unanimity. the fact that the commission has challenged this amendment before the court of justice has created years of uncertainty for the sector and, moreover, the court's ruling has only complicated matters. the legal basis for article 175 was the european parliament and the council. the commission wanted article 133. the court has decided to recognise both articles as the legal basis, to the surprise of all parties concerned. mr president, this is not an isolated incident. in several cases there is a battle between the commission, parliament and the council over the choice of the legal basis. finally, the matter of the transport of waste, for which i am also rapporteur. i would urge that in future the three parties should not fight these kinds of choices in the court but should come to a solution together. the most important thing is that there should be a clear policy on the choice of legal bases. we have now had three similar cases before the court, all of which have led to different rulings. that is not conducive to the coherence of legislation and also leads to a whole procedure of reparation legislation, such as that which will be voted on shortly. i would therefore call on the commission and the council to agree with this house on a clear procedure for the choice of legal bases. that can only improve the quality of legislation.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women 's rights and gender equality . president, i thank mr de rossa and mr silva peneda for their work on the report on the european social model. i am glad that the input of the committee on women's rights has been taken seriously and is also reflected in the report. women are indispensable to the social model, just as they are indispensable to the labour market. it is not for nothing that we in europe have set out to increase the participation of women in the labour force. yet women are still far too often missing from the labour market and from the social model. women are often the first victims of a malfunctioning social system. when there is no money for shelters or for sick, old or disabled people, it is often the women, wives and mothers who stay at home to take care of them. that is why i am in favour of a model which takes women into account. i am in favour of a model where the government provides help where it is needed, in an affordable way. i am not in favour of a model devised by brussels which should be introduced throughout europe as such. i am in favour of social solidarity in europe under the motto 'one for all and all for one'. that is what i find in the report we are discussing today. i therefore support the report by mr de rossa and mr silva peneda.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. the negative effects of demographic change are apparent, and this is making people very reluctant, also in the debate on the european social model. they wonder how sustainable everything we have right now is. can we maintain that pension, that unemployment benefit, if necessary, can we maintain that level of welfare at the present level? i mean, that reluctance. the central question is whether the social security systems, which are very diverse but all based on certain values, can deliver what was promised when they were set up. i am very pleased that the two colleagues, mr de rossa and mr silva peneda, have managed to produce a good report from various political disciplines, which can provide a basis for future discussion. i thank them sincerely for that. the european social model is essentially about building the economy and expanding the economy, otherwise we cannot provide and guarantee social security. we want to guarantee people basic social needs, but of course we have to earn some things first. this means that we need a continuous process of reforming social security so that it gives the citizen what he is entitled to expect. there are different models, and our model is different because it is based on a social market economy and is in fact also based on christian social doctrine. i thank the president for the many good recommendations in this report.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward this report. i am also pleased to hear that the system of tradable emission allowances is working well in the eyes of the commissioner and the council. our group has given its wholehearted support to the drafting of this directive and it is therefore important that things work well. i have a few comments, however, and, like mrs doyle, i have some doubts. first of all, it is regrettable that only nine countries have now submitted their plans. it is good to know that the commission is behind this, but it is disappointing that only nine countries are in time. secondly, i think that the allocations made by the member states in the past have been too generous and that the directive on tradable emission allowances has had too little effect. another politically salient problem is the windfall profits made by the electricity companies. the electricity companies have been given free allowances and have been able to sell them on to the energy-intensive industry, but also to consumers, and that is of course unacceptable at a time when the profits of the electricity companies are already increasing. i would like to see a full evaluation of this directive, commissioner, and i think we should also ask ourselves, given the generous allocation and the windfall profits of the electricity companies, whether it is not much better to move to an auction system instead of the grandfathering system we have now.
i would like to express my concern about the problems of counterfeit medicines. counterfeit medicines are manufactured without any form of supervision and are illegally traded. their effects are uncontrollable and therefore pose a potential danger to public health. this is why we must fight against piracy. mr cornillet has already raised this, the commissioner has also spoken about it and i welcome any action the commission is taking to combat this problem. the problems are particularly in the developing countries, the poor countries. i therefore foresee the greatest difficulties in dealing with this piracy efficiently and adequately. in these countries, the supply of reliable, legal medicines is often less well organised than in europe. this gives dealers in counterfeit medicines a relatively wide margin for marketing their medicines, the effects of which cannot be controlled and can even be dangerous to public health. in addition, there is often a lack of legal framework in developing countries. there is simply not enough legislation to deal with this problem effectively. and even if these laws are in place, they leave a lot to be desired. in the developing countries there is a need for affordable, effective and, of course, legal medicines, and i would therefore like to refer to the possibilities offered by generic medicines. they do not eliminate the problem, but they can alleviate the need that exists. unfortunately, it is still little used. maybe there's more to it. the commissioner says that an international convention or standard is not adequate. i imagine that a convention or a standard can do something, and if this is not adequate enough, there must be more. i think that a clear and universal approach is extremely important. europe will have to help, and i am thinking here of the transfer of knowledge, to tackle counterfeit medicines more effectively. i would like to ask the commissioner, but he has already said something about this in his explanatory statement: what are the new plans to further tackle counterfeit medicines and the organisation in this area, particularly where criminal activities are concerned?
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, europe has little power in the field of public health and it must remain so, because health is first and foremost a responsibility of the member states. europe has a very important complementary role: a common research policy with a strong emphasis on health and a public health action programme aimed at improving the quality of care and treatment methods, by exchanging data, pooling expertise and encouraging countries to learn from each other. it is precisely in the field of mental health that this approach shows promise, and that is why, commissioner, i am also pleased with the green paper. i also thank john bowis for his commitment and involvement in this. he gave an excellent report. ladies and gentlemen, as has been said several times this evening, one in four europeans, or 100 million europeans, will experience at least one period of serious health problems in their lifetime. that is tragic and on top of that it also costs 3 to 4% of the gnp. mental health problems can be anything: eating disorders in girls or young women, alcoholism, drug addiction, behavioural problems, depression or any other psychiatric condition. successful treatment methods for these conditions are difficult to develop. take drug addiction, for example. what is the best approach to recovering from addiction? medication, methadone, talk therapy or a narconon approach with saunas and vitamins? a serious comparison of the success of the different methods of withdrawal would be useful. or take eating disorders and depression: there are success stories, but there are just as many failures. what i'm interested in is bringing expertise together, that therapists learn from each other, that patients or addicts gain insight into successful treatment methods. it is also useful to set up a european coordination group of experts. involve patients, addicts and health care providers. make it a kind of coordination point with a website where one in four europeans and their family circle can go if they have mental health problems. then, mr president, european cooperation is a very valuable thing.
europe is facing major threats to public health: i've been told that there's a lot of things that can happen to you. however, mental illness also belongs in this category. after all, why are people with mental illness treated differently from people with heart disease, aids, or cancer? in an age when patients are increasingly seen as consumers, better informed and more involved in decision-making, a change in attitudes towards mental health is also appropriate. at present, the eu shares responsibility for public health and healthcare with the member states. member states are responsible for national health services and systems. the eu is only given a complementary role. i am in favour of a greater role for the eu in public health matters, precisely because they are so important for citizens. in order to promote and support cooperation between member states in the field of mental health and to eliminate disparities between member states, it is appropriate for the union to take action in this area, for example through cooperation, the promotion of cohesion and the creation of a platform. in this way, the eu can be of service to citizens and change the negative image of bureaucracy and unnecessary rules that many citizens have.
- a writer. president. - i call the enlarged bureau. is it not the intention that the council, the minister, should first answer the question that has already been asked? the question is clear, it has already been sent to the council. the council's reply will then be submitted to the members for comment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the impression we got during that visit was that the european union is indeed present and preparing for its task, which, as we all know, will be quite crucial for the future of kosovo, but that the energy and attention being put into the matter leaves a lot to be desired. this concerns a number of issues. firstly, it is clear that the european union is preparing well in the field of security and justice to take over the tasks of the un, unmic, but in our view it is not in the field of security and justice, important as it is, that the eu will play a major role. it is also a matter of coordinating all the efforts of the international community, of continuing to help build up a civil administration and, very importantly, of monitoring respect for human rights. these are crucial tasks which will be entrusted to the eu when the un has left and preparations for its departure are well under way. our question to the council and the european union is: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments which have been tabled by the committee on budgets. we believe that this preparation should be carried out in good harmony and in close cooperation with the commission. i would also like to ask, out of interest and not out of criticism, whether the member states and the commission are able to set up a well-equipped commission delegation in time, for example. the last point, which is of very great symbolic importance, is that we believe the eu should do everything possible to break the gap between the unmic regime and the eu regime. it must not be that the eu is seen as a kind of eu-mic, as they say. it must be clear in the symbols, the buildings, the way of presenting it that there is a new beginning with the eu, in a different kosovo than during the presence of the united nations since '99. these are the questions on which we would like to know what the commission and in particular the council think.
i would like to add my support to the comments made by my colleagues in the first round of this debate. i was also a member of the delegation that visited kosovo and then belgrade in serbia. it is clear that this part of serbia, which is still formally kosovo, is aiming for some form of independence. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. some form of independence, as they call it, or limited sovereignty is inevitable, whether we like it or not. i think that the facts are there, that we must therefore prepare for it, and that the security council will probably make a statement on this at the end of the year. everyone you talk to in kosovo is convinced that the international community will have to remain for a good number of years, first of all, of course, nato. it's supposed to be about military security. the european union is also expected to play an important role, and there are a few priorities. firstly, as others have said, the protection and rights of the serb minority in kosovo. an important point here, and i confirm what has been said before, is that we can expect cooperation and openness from both the kosovo albanians and the serbs living in kosovo, and belgrade is of course playing an important role in this, as is also shown in the talks. we must also ensure that we continue to exert pressure on serbia on this point. i would add that if we assume that independence for kosovo, as i have described it, is probably inevitable, we will have to take into account the sensitivities of serbia and the serbs in some way and also look at what we can offer serbia in the course of the year. there too, a more flexible visa system may play a role, as a signal from the european union that we are serious about the european future of the country. of course, the international mission will also play an important role in the further economic development and the creation of political stability in a possible independent kosovo. economic development, as you can see when you walk around, is obviously a major priority. i think that all this must be seen in the light of the european perspective which, in fact, if you look at the statements, for example at the thessaloniki summit a few years ago, was also offered to kosovo. the eu, as everyone knows, will play a greater role in kosovo in the future. everyone expects us to take over the role of the un after the status is established, but i agree with what has been said by everyone: it will be a different form, things will have to be filled in differently. after all, when you talk to people in kosovo, you find that many are critical of the role of the un. what they no longer want is an international organization that dictates how the country should be run. they want to finally be in control of their region, their country, and we must prepare for that. a lot has been said about that, because the un has made it clear that they want to leave next year. that is a heavy responsibility for the european union. the european union will have to play a role in the development of the police force, but it will also have to monitor the development of the judiciary, and i think it is also important to invest heavily in the administrative apparatus and, as i said, in economic development. in the future, the european union may also be able to take over nato's military role there, as we have done in bosnia. i would like to make one last remark to the commissioner. what we noticed and what we wondered is whether the eu is sufficiently prepared and whether we have enough people there to take on this important and heavy responsibility next year. i would like to join in the plea you have just made to the finnish presidency. i hope that this will show finnish tenacity in its efforts to get as many people as possible to work there in a good way.
president. - everyone expects that within a year the independence long sought by the vast majority of the people of kosovo will be recognised by many states. the discussions on this are about the conditions for independence and how the minorities of serbs, roma and others are protected. the question of the northern part of the city, which wants to return to serbia, and the possibility of creating new municipalities specifically for serbs are still uncertain. my group has bad memories of the european union's attitude to kosovo between 1989 and 1999. nobody seemed interested in the non-violent mass resistance led by the later president ibrahim rugova, who boycotted all serbian state institutions and organized their own administration and education in albanian. the war in 1999 was not aimed at the liberation of kosovo, but at the subjugation of serbia to meet other european and american desires. the now inevitable independence of kosovo is unfortunately not a choice motivated by a desire for democracy and equality but the result of an industrial accident. after seven years, it is clear to almost everyone that continued occupation will not solve anything, while return to serbia would lead to guerrilla war and huge flows of refugees. i agree with the questioners from four other groups that the european union is now obliged to play a positive role in the peaceful and correct separation of serbia and the building of democracy and economy in kosovo.
president, commissioner, but above all president of the council, let me try to clarify the main points again at the end of the debate. i think you have seen, and i am addressing the minister in particular, that most of the questions and comments that have been made here stem from genuine concern that the eu, despite - i do not doubt your sincerity and the fact that you know what needs to be done, but i am afraid that the eu will not be able to carry out all the difficult tasks that will be placed on its plate within the time available, and we are talking about three to six months, not years. i think, as many colleagues have said, that failure, non-permanence, failure of the eu is not an option. that is bad for the region, that is bad for the eu, we cannot afford that. if you say, and the commissioner repeats it, that the eu's job is to monitor and delegate, i agree with that and i think most colleagues agree with that, but that is not as easy as it sounds. it's a new kind of role, where we have to let go of things on the one hand and on the other hand maintain control in a divided society and that will show that after independence not all problems have been solved. now it is still the case that everyone in kosovo thinks that independence will solve everything. this will not be the case, for example, with regard to the economic problems. as regards the military presence, i really hope that all the proper attention to lebanon and the congo will not lead us to think that we will be able to cope in kosovo and that we will be able to cope with fewer troops, fewer soldiers. that will not be the case in the coming years. i cannot but support the commissioner in his request to the council not to ask more of the commission and to put less money and people at its disposal. it is not possible that we and you are asking the commission to play a crucial role in kosovo and that it should do so with fewer people. i really hope that the finnish president, the finnish commissioner and the finnish negotiator will come out and to promote that i am willing and i accept to pay a visit on behalf of the whole parliament to a place where most finns get valuable insights, the sauna.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr toomas ilves, for his work, also on behalf of my group. albania is a difficult, complicated country and i think that the analysis and conclusions he draws with regard to albania are correct. we too welcome the signing of the stabilisation and association treaty and will vote in favour of it in parliament today. the treaty reflects the achievements of the past few years and opens the way to candidate membership of the european union on the basis of the agreements reached in thessaloniki. our group will continue to support albania in the steps it still has to take on the road to european integration. until the early 1990s, albania was the most closed country on the european continent. with this signature, it joins several other countries in the balkans which have taken bold steps in the past year. croatia is now negotiating eu membership, macedonia has been granted candidate status and bosnia-herzegovina has also made clear progress. we as a group have for a moment considered asking for a postponement of the vote on this agreement, because of the upcoming local elections in albania, to put a little pressure on the authorities there to ensure that the elections are conducted in an orderly manner, but we think that you can also turn the argument around, by saying that the signing of this agreement, the approval of this parliament, is a positive incentive for all parties in albania to behave decently and to continue on the road of political and economic reforms, whereby we can work with the criteria that we have used in other countries working on a future within the european union, in particular, of course, the first copenhagen criterion. at the same time, however, we must not lose sight of the fact that we still have a long way to go. this signature does not mean that the albanian government, which has presented the conclusion of this treaty as a major victory, can rest on its laurels, and i hope that this is being recognized in albania. if we look at the copenhagen criteria, the ultimate benchmark for eu membership, there are a number of warnings to be addressed to the albanian government. i've already said something about the local elections. we expect everyone to do their best to ensure that it is free and fair. we will be watching this and we hope that the commission and the council will also be watching how things are going. a second point i would like to make is the situation in the media. free and independent media are essential for a transparent and robust democracy. the country's government clearly has a responsibility to provide this, but we must note that the media are under pressure in part, including through the proposed amendment to the law on electronic media. the independence of the judiciary also raises questions. these are all issues which the european union will have to keep a close eye on, even after the ratification of the stabilisation and association agreement. finally, we see a degree of political polarization in the country that is of concern to us. that's not new, but we still don't see the end. we therefore call on the government and the opposition to act in a pragmatic and constructive manner, because only then can albania fully exploit the opportunities offered by this agreement.
the albanian part of europe is the most forgotten part of europe. the albanians were backward farmers and herders whom no one wanted to take into account. when the ottoman empire collapsed nearly a century ago, both serbia and italy tried to gain a lasting hold on the albanian territory. it is a miracle that in the most inhospitable part of the albanian residential area an independent state could still be formed in 1913. that state has not been a success so far. after a right-wing dictatorship, a foreign occupation and a left-wing dictatorship, what is particularly striking is the chaos and intolerance between the political parties. the north of the country in particular is unsafe and backward. the millions of albanians living around albania on the southern edge of montenegro, in most of kosovo and in northwestern macedonia, do aspire to language rights and self-government, but expect little positive from joining albania as it is. the public opinion in the european union also prefers to keep albania out of the way. the country is now known for child trafficking, pyramid schemes, energy waste, mistreatment of prisoners, and international crime. the problems seem intractable. the preparatory discussions have shown that other groups are more optimistic about the situation in albania than my group and that they have less need to invite albania to change. despite this difference of opinion, my group also believes that continued isolation and exclusion from european cooperation will not solve albania's enormous problems. the promise of a prospect of accession to the european union must be fulfilled. in the long run, before it can get that far, it needs support for democracy, education, the environment and the economy. i regret that the proposed decision seems to be more concerned with guarantees for foreign companies than with the environment, food safety and good governance. we believe that the neighbourhood policy and association agreements should not serve the interests of the present eu member states unilaterally, but should above all help the potential future members of the union to progress.
the german press reports today that there are serious objections within the bundeswehr to the conditions imposed by the lebanese government on foreign aid to protect its 225 km long maritime border against illegal arms transfers. beirut itself would like to control a six-nautical-mile strip of the coast and beyond that, the control of the navies of various eu member states is desired, including my country, the netherlands. the president of the bundeswehr association does not accept these conditions, and i think he is right, mr president, because what navy of an eu member state would want to watch helplessly as hezbollah is being rearmed? the decision on this specific mandate now rests with the united nations. i would like to hear from this council and commission what action they are taking on this issue at the un, secretary-general annan, and how they are reacting to it, what position they are taking on this controversy, because it has a direct bearing on european involvement in stabilizing the situation around lebanon. it is significant, mr president, that even the two representatives of hezbollah in the lebanese government voted against this dangerous compromise proposal. it is logical, in short, that israel is maintaining its naval blockade against lebanon for the time being.
mr president, i wish to begin by saying that i fully endorse the speech made by my colleague, mr howitt. it has already been said that violence cannot be an answer to the problems of the middle east and neither can unilateralism. history proves this: israel withdrew from the sinai in the context of a negotiated peace agreement and from the arava in a negotiated peace with jordan. israel withdrew from south lebanon and gaza unilaterally without agreements. enough said. this is the eu’s chance to prove that our approach is right, but it will be a difficult sell. i could share with you many personal stories of palestinian friends and their suffering living under violent israeli occupation, but i want to share the story of a friend of mine in israel. his name is renan. he is a dj. he does not want to fight, he only wants to dance. he is dead set against occupation and walks at the front of every peace demonstration in israel. however, i was there when he received the call from the idf to tell him to prepare for the fight. he was shocked and afraid, but he said, ‘what do you expect us to do? hizbollah has been bombing haifa and natanya for years now. how are we supposed to trust europe if you are not even willing to call that terrorism?’ our resolution speaks of root causes that need to be addressed. let me try to define these root causes in the words of daniel levy, co-author of the geneva peace initiative. he said that the palestinian cause, the injustice of occupation, the hypocrisy of the united states and the west are a grievance for millions worldwide. some abuse and use that and will continue to do so with effect until this conflict is resolved. in order to be effective in the region we need the trust of ordinary citizens. we can earn this trust only by consistently addressing these root causes, but we can earn my friend renan’s trust only if we are willing to say out loud that hizbollah is a radical militant group that abuses the palestinian cause to strengthen its position as a threat to democracy in lebanon and as a threat to ordinary israelis.
yesterday we had a debate on the daphne programme, especially as regards women and children. we are hearing a lot about the abuse of the elderly and it might be possible to take this question on board, because it covers a similar area. two months ago there was a large meeting with eight european organisations of elderly people. could this question be taken on board within the framework of daphne?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and the european parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the present report provides brussels and beijing with benchmarks for all aspects of their relations: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's financial interests are protected. as rapporteur on the european side, i have found it extremely important to listen carefully to the chinese discussions on the impressive peaceful development of the people's republic over the past three decades. the eu is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the environment. logically, they will be included in the motion for a resolution. a large majority of the foreign affairs committee supports this targeted approach by its indispensable and valuable contribution, for which i also warmly thank all the colleagues involved. the public reactions of the chinese embassy in brussels at various stages of my reporting, prompt me to make a brief statement on three essential points: the commission has also been asked to submit a report on the situation in the democratic people's republic of korea. in a letter dated 25 april, the chinese embassy flatly denies the forced psychiatric treatment of political and social dissidents. this hideous method of torture is officially called ankang, which means: from rest and peace to health. well, on november 3, 2005, the german weekly die zeit recorded the testimonies of three victims of this ankang system under the telling headline "electric shocks against the freedom virus". on 14 december 2005, the "neuzüricher zeitung" also published a damning article about ankang. as if nothing were wrong, the chinese embassy is urging the european parliament to delete paragraph 24 of the motion for a resolution on ankang as being totally unfounded. as if nothing were wrong, the socialist group did indeed table an amendment to that effect. i asked her twice in the committee on foreign affairs to withdraw the amendment, but to no avail. the ankang system, ladies and gentlemen, is totally at odds with basic human rights, which we all wholeheartedly support. i can hear mrs de keyser saying it now. so i'm puzzled by her attitude. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. we are well informed to this day of the many violations of the basic fundamental right of freedom of religion in china. this is equally true of critical internal discussions about this government action, even in the offices of the state office for religious affairs. how i would have liked to have spoken to such open officials when i visited this governmental institution last autumn. the chinese people enjoy extensive freedom of religion, the chinese mission to the european union said in its news bulletin of 31 august. i hereby publicly invite her to translate and publish the full text of the recent interview with china's supreme "religious leader" to clarify the party's leash, because what is positive or negative in religions is the exclusive judgment of the chinese communist party. the vast majority of the taiwanese people do not wish to be on the same leash. i heard this from european diplomats on the ground, and i heard it from many taiwanese citizens themselves. one of them indicated why beijing's doctrine of peaceful reunification, especially the ominous one-child policy, which the socialist group is particularly concerned about, currently has no chance with the population: "we are not concerned with ideology or nationalism, no, it is about the difference in political system and respect for all human rights as a way of life. it has no chance as long as china does not give up its authoritarian rule, and it is not likely to do so in the foreseeable future". i think that this is a satisfactory answer to the socialist amendments, which, curiously and unofficially, in view of the usual use of words in eu documents, refer to two systems in relation to china and taiwan. it's a matter of self-disclosure. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this report the european parliament is committed to a solid partnership between the european union and china. it is therefore fair to point out the obstacles to this political endeavour, especially now that they are equally recognised on the chinese side - read the report, you will see chinese statements, chinese academies - but which are not recognised and removed politically as obstacles. helping china on the path to rule of law. encourage china's political modernization as a necessary social parallel to its astonishing economic development. that must be our message to the council and the commission on the eve of the summit with the chinese leadership.
i am glad to have a few more minutes to respond. i have a few comments to make to my colleagues. first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner very much for her substantive response to my report. i can see her commitment, i am not against the people's republic of china, much less the chinese. i'm gonna keep doing what i've been doing all along: i'm listening carefully to the chinese discussions themselves. you said a developing country. there is a great deal of discussion at the moment, and there is talk of multiple economies in one country, while striving for a harmonious society. the chinese scientists who are doing this talk about the need for social valves. i think it would be a good thing if we were to intervene in the debate in a reserved but committed manner, for the sake of the partnership and also for the sake of internal stability. we are thinking along, not from the outside, but from the inside, for the good of the chinese people, but also for the partnership. so i thank you very much for your approach and i hope that you will be able to bring it forward at the summit. i was struck again by the socialist group's refusal to answer my question on the ankang system, even though they claim to be human rights defenders. mrs dobolyi, you are not answering a pertinent question which i have asked for the third time. if there are factual errors, as mr ford says, then i would like an amendment. the text has been given a few things in the opinion of mr hoppenstedt. i have tabled an amendment to delete that too. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs carmen fraga, on her report on the commission communication, and also the rapporteur, mr ries, on the environment committee. what pleases me and also shows that the committee on fisheries is dealing with matters in a mature way is that there is a certain degree of agreement on how to introduce an eco-label in the fisheries sector. you might say that in the fishing industry, every free fish caught at sea or in inland waters deserves an eco-label: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and in that sense i must say that i agree with the report by my colleague, mrs carmen fraga. if you choose to get a european eco-label, you have to do it right. this means that the fish that will be covered must comply with all the rules relating to the enforcement of the quotas. the rules of environmental legislation must also be respected, and this also requires the necessary action on the part of the member states, but it could be a good guarantee. if you do not do this, then you better leave some things to the corporate world and make sure that by guiding the consumer, a good label comes about. i would like to see the commission's proposal to the council and the commission to the council, and i would like to see the commission's proposal to the council and the commission to the council. the commission then facilitates and the industry requests, which seems to me to be the right way. a word about small-scale coastal fishing. i think it's good to pay attention to that. i come from an area where small shrimp fishermen fish. the commission has also recently introduced an ecolabel, which i think is a very good thing, especially when it also explicitly includes sustainable fishing and a number of other issues. in this sense i welcome this report and the fact that the european parliament, with the report by mr fraga, can take a good step towards a well-qualified european eco-label.
rapporteur. – mr president, today we are discussing the pnr agreement with the united states. however, we are all fully aware of the fact that this issue can only be debated in a wider context, particularly in the light of the information received last night to the effect that president bush has finally admitted that secret cia detention camps actually exist. we should look at this issue in the wider context of the methods used to combat terrorism – the methods that we in europe want to use in the fight against terrorism and the methods that are used by our friend and ally, the united states. the case of the cia detention camps and rendition flights and the case of the pnr agreement demonstrate very clearly the urgent need for europe to speak with a single voice. we urgently need a single european policy in this area. i welcome what commissioner frattini has said, because in my view a common eu policy is not one designed by a handful of ministers that meet behind closed doors, in informal meetings. an eu policy is one made following a proper democratic procedure that involves parliamentary scrutiny, i.e. in codecision with parliament. you therefore have my wholehearted support for the proposal on the bridging clause. i hope that the governments too will now realise how urgent that is. with regard to the pnr issue itself, we should distinguish three phases. one is the short-term renegotiation of the current agreement, which is very urgent and needs to be concluded by the end of the month. i have heard rumours which seem to indicate that the us is in no great hurry to conclude the agreement and might actually ultimately prefer bilateral agreements. it is therefore very important that all european countries and the eu institutions close ranks and adopt a united stance. i very much welcome the much more forthcoming attitude adopted by the council and commission this week. that is the best way forward. were there to be no agreement it would be absolutely catastrophic for the european union and for the protection of our citizens’ personal data. with regard to this agreement, we all seem to agree that the substance of the agreement should preferably be left untouched. we would have preferred to improve the agreement, but the us would like to move in another direction. i therefore feel that the best we can achieve at the moment is to have the same agreement but on a new legal basis. during the negotiations, however, you should insist that the undertakings made in the current agreement be implemented without delay, because assessments have shown that even if there is an agreement it is not being fully and correctly implemented. i would notably point to: the switch from the ‘pull’ to the ‘push’ system, which is long overdue; information to passengers, which is key but which is apparently still not happening; and purpose limitation – which is a more difficult issue, but an absolutely crucial one. i hope you can see to it that the undertakings are integrated into the agreement rather than being a sort of appendix that is not legally binding. with regard to the medium and long term – i.e. the post-2007 review – we very much hope that by then the passerelle clause will have been adopted, that parliament will have secured codecision and that everything will be dealt with as part of a proper democratic procedure. at that point, parliament will insist on proportionality, which is to say that there should be data-sharing, because we all want a safer world and to fight the scourge of terrorism, but that this should be proportional. we should not share more data than is strictly needed to achieve our purpose. it goes without saying that there should be adequate protection of personal data and procedural safeguards. that is quite clear. one of the proposals in the report, which fortunately received the support of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, is that we start a parliamentary transatlantic dialogue. i feel that this rift with the us needs to be healed. we must fight terrorism together. it cannot be that while we call the americans ‘cowboys’ they call us ‘cowards’, and we are deeply divided. at the same time, there are proposals circulating on a european pnr policy. i am rather unhappy that we only learned about this through the media. we have heard that this idea was presented at an informal meeting in london a couple of weeks ago. that is not the way forward. if there is to be such a policy then we would prefer that it were presented here in parliament. finally, i should like to make a very urgent appeal to the council to adopt proper arrangements for data protection under the third pillar, along the lines set out by our rapporteur, mrs roure. (applause)
mr president, i fully endorse the approach of our rapporteur, mrs in ‘t veld. it is only normal that we, as members of the european parliament, seek the protection of our citizens’ rights as we fight against terrorism. these two things do not exclude each other; on the contrary, they are complementary. but i also endorse our other criticisms. of course, we need full parliamentary involvement and a free, open and transparent debate. if we cannot even honour the principles of democracy when we decide on the fundamental rights of our citizens, then when can we? but let us face it, even though all these things are, as we say in holland, ‘completely open doors that do not need to be kicked in’, the pnr case is becoming a bit of a farce. it somehow seems incredibly difficult to solve the problems and make sure that the rights of our citizens are adequately protected. why is this? is it mr frattini’s fault? is it due to the council? after pnr, swift, the cia scandal and various other recent problems, i believe that it is highly unlikely that the current united states government can be persuaded to be sensitive to our very simple and logical demands. maybe we, as a parliament, should change our tactics. maybe we should take up the issue directly with the united states congress – i have much more faith in our democratic counterparts on the other side of the pond. i hope for a joint session of the european parliament and the united states congress, as i am sure that american parliamentarians are more subject to reason than the bush government.
author. - mr president, after decades of war and intensive norwegian mediation, successive sri lankan governments have declared their intention to reach an agreement with the rebellious tamil tigers. it could even be a confederation in which the central government cannot interfere with the democratically elected administration of the autonomous north-east of javna. unfortunately, this good promise has become the subject of political struggle within the sinhalese population, some of whom feel that the tamil rebels should settle for less. this division within the majority group undermines confidence in a peaceful solution within the minority. as long as the tamil minority is not yet certain of political agreement within the sinhalese majority group or of previous promises, we cannot expect them to wait in good faith for an offer. meanwhile, both sides have resumed violence. europe must not consistently take sides but do everything possible to promote peace and harmony. the ltte rebel group is not banned in sri lanka, but unfortunately has been listed as a terrorist organisation in the european union since may 2006. that makes negotiations difficult and invites endless violence. the fact that an organisation is put on the terrorist list means that no negotiations can be held with that organisation and that all attention is focused on its destruction. we have known for many years that this organization cannot be destroyed and shut down, even if we wanted to. that's why it's been talked about for many years. we need the ltte to achieve harmony and peace. we must therefore do everything we can to put an end to the despair that has led her to resort to violent means again.
author. mr president, over 60 years of isolation has developed in north korea a model of government and a way of life that is very different from anything else you find anywhere else in the world. moreover, it seems that more attention is being given to missiles and atomic bombs than to adequate food production. people who feel uncomfortable living in such conditions are trapped. the border with south korea is still closed. neighboring china is not a solution either, as long as it sends some refugees back to a country that is likely to punish deviants severely. the people who are sent back, we never hear from them again. therefore, an alternative must be provided for those who wish to flee. these people are now being sent to poor countries like vietnam and cambodia, but increasingly to the much more prosperous thailand. thailand could easily accommodate this relatively small number of people for the time being. although the united nations refugee agency recognizes them as refugees, the thai government unfortunately sees them primarily as illegal border crossers. this means that after all the misery they have already suffered, they are sentenced to another 30 days in prison plus a fine that is high by their standards. instead, thailand should welcome them or allow them to travel on to south korea or another country that welcomes them if they so wish. we hope that thailand will also adopt the standards which have been common in europe, which are not followed very consistently today, but which were a tradition. if thailand is to be a democracy, with problems attached to it, it should treat these refugees in the same way.
mr president, i oppose this proposal for two reasons. firstly, why would we not say something about asem? for the first time in years, there has been a successful asem summit. we used to complain about things going wrong but, finally, we have done something well. let us speak out about the improvement in economic ties with asia. it is an important issue and it gives us the opportunity to discuss the promotion of democracy and speak out against the continued use of capital punishment in asian countries. there is another reason. this is our only opportunity this week to speak out about the military coup in thailand. that event should be on all our minds. a military coup is the wrong way to get rid of even such an unsavoury character as prime minister thaksin: it is not the way to go about it, and this parliament cannot remain silent. we have to speak out on this issue, whether it is you as president, the conference of presidents or, preferably, this house as a whole. i therefore oppose having the debate without a resolution.
- i'm the reporter. president. - i think that generosity also applies to the second speaker of the house today, but i will try to keep it short. i would also like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs on this subject, holger krahmer, anja weisgerber and anders wijkman, and all the other shadow rapporteurs who contributed to a good result. air quality is a major health problem, and when i started looking seriously at air quality problems more than six months ago, i was shocked by the seriousness of it. europeans die about nine months earlier because of air quality. 350,000 people die ten years earlier because of air quality. millions of people struggle with asthmatic conditions. not everyone is equally affected by poor air quality. the people who live in the big cities, along the highways, children and the elderly are the hardest hit. air pollution and the acid rain it causes are also a major environmental problem in large parts of europe, especially in scandinavia. we therefore expect a firm policy to reduce air pollution, commissioner, and we are therefore disappointed in the proposals you have put forward. the reports by krahmer and myself are first and foremost an indictment of the indifferent attitude towards air pollution. we are asking for three political changes. firstly, stricter standards, secondly, more attention to implementation and thirdly, source measures to tackle air pollution. i'll start with the standards. the commission's report on the environment calls for a higher level of ambition in both reports, and this is badly needed. the thematic strategy shall choose between the a, b and c levels of ambition and the maximum feasible scenario. all impact assessment studies indicate that even the maximum scenario is still cost-effective and that the optimal scenario is between b and c. the commission nevertheless opts for the a-plus level of ambition, without any further explanation. in the interests of public health, this is an incomprehensible choice. a higher level of ambition can be achieved - as the united states has shown - and is also very cost-effective, as is shown by all the studies which underpin it. the proposals in my report are a few billion more expensive, but they bring substantial health benefits. they are also a strong driver of innovation. the directive sets a new standard for the smaller particulate matter, pm2.5. the smallest particles are the most harmful to health, and the standard is also more precise because the smallest particles contain fewer natural resources such as sea salt and desert sand. pm2.5 is therefore a better measure, but the commission's interpretation is very disappointing. parliament calls for a target and limit value of 20 μg/m3 for pm2.5. this is considerably better than the 25 μg that the commission and the council want, but it is still worse than the 15 μg in the united states and the 10 μg recommended by the world health organization. i am also very curious to see how the commission will incorporate the level of ambition chosen by parliament in the strategy into future legislation and the nec directive. can you comment on that, commissioner? do you now also follow parliament's example and opt for a level of ambition between b and c? i said that we need better standards, but that is only one of the three pillars. our second pillar is focus on implementation. so far, the efforts of the member states have not been very convincing. only four member states now fully comply with the limit values as set out in the current directive. the commission has a duty to ensure that this is done properly, and it needs to do so, because air pollution is a transnational problem. half of the air pollution in the netherlands comes from abroad. the netherlands cannot therefore clean up the air on its own and must rely on the governments in belgium, england and germany to make every effort to tackle air pollution. but the netherlands exports a lot of pollution and therefore the scandinavian countries, germany and belgium too must be able to count on the netherlands to do everything possible to clean up the air. so far the commission has not responded very convincingly to member states that exceed the standards. the committee on the environment wants to see new provisions in the directive to encourage the commission to take a more active stance. the member states will be clearly obliged to make an effort. some countries need more time to reach the limit values. i can agree with that as long as they make every effort, but without effort, no exception. adequate efforts are the condition for exception. exceptions are not, as in the commission proposal, a premium for doing nothing, and amendment no 66 makes that clear once again. the third pillar, ladies and gentlemen, is an ambitious resource policy. without a source policy, without a policy to make cars, freight traffic, shipping and industry run cleaner, it is very difficult for member states, and especially for the densely populated member states, to make the air cleaner. the only way to improve air quality is to stop traffic and industry. these are draconian measures and at the same time ineffective. the bill is being passed unilaterally to the lower levels of government, and that is of course unacceptable. a serious resource policy is good for the air, for the environment and for public health, but ultimately it is also good for energy savings and for the climate because of the reduced co2 emissions. and it's also good for innovation: for example, cleaner and more fuel-efficient cars sell better. the commission is therefore proposing to include article 30a in the directive, which calls for a source policy for 2010. the strategy therefore proposes an interinstitutional agreement to establish a source policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat air pollution, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. i think that the environment committee has laid a solid foundation with these three pillars. we have made a new compromise which has made things a little bit more clear and i thank once again all those who have contributed to this, and in particular holger krahmer, anja weisgerber and anders wijkman. we have made some important political changes with stricter standards, more attention to implementation and source policy. this approach is a new europe, close to the people, with a view to the implementation of legislation by national and local authorities and focused on innovation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that this is done. the purpose of the legislation - and i am concentrating particularly on the draft directive - is therefore very good and i particularly support the efforts of rapporteur holger krahmer to make the legislation as workable as possible. we must ask ourselves whether we are on the right track here as the european union and whether we are not in the process of creating symbol legislation. why do i say that? we want to impose strict requirements on member states when they are already unable to meet the old air quality standards. since the entry into force of the air quality directive in 2005, which sets limits for pm10 particles, 10 member states have failed to comply with the requirements. and already in the run-up to 2005, it should have been clear to the commission that member states would not meet the limit values without a systematic source policy, i.e. limiting exhaust gases from cars, lorries and ships. between 2002 and 2004, around 96% of cities exceeded daily standards and annual standards were exceeded in several areas in southern europe, in the benelux and in germany, as well as in central and eastern europe, totalling around 73% of cities. without source measures, which have often been announced by the commission years ago, a little more or less stringent values for pm10 or pm2.5 are of no use, let alone nitrogen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are trying to get all these resources in, but they are not there yet. the opposition to this policy in the commission (and indeed in this parliament) is enormous. local short-term measures are ineffective. effective policies must focus on long-term measures and thus also on resource policies. that's not the case here. the aim of the legislation is good, but the route chosen to achieve it is questionable.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the air quality in the member states is not affected by pollution. my analysis is that the problems that exist in the netherlands must also exist in almost all the other member states, especially in urban areas. the agreement now reached between the political groups therefore very rightly gives a possibility of delay before the limit values for pm10 become applicable. i shall advise my group to accept this agreement. i would also like to draw particular attention to amendment no 76, because in my view the position of nitrous oxide has been wrongly excluded from the agreement. i would ask members to support that amendment. i would like to address commissioner dimas. we have heard you say, commissioner, that the commission cannot accept that any delay should be linked to the commission proposing new measures. you will see tomorrow that you have a large majority against you. you have no doubt also read the report drawn up by the european environmental policy institute last week. it says that such a link is an extraordinary good thing. you really don't see any way to meet us? finally, of course, a word of thanks to the two rapporteurs. i know it can be very difficult to sift through such a sensitive file between the rocks. i think you have done a very good job, and for that we should thank you both. jonas sjöstedt, thank you for the good collegial cooperation, you're doing well.
i would like to thank mrs anja weisgerber in particular. - why? - why? because she's been so understanding, so listening, and also worked on a good compromise with holger krahmer and also with dorette corbey. i thank them all. mrs corbey, you are in favour of a strict and new source policy. in order to achieve the air quality standards, mrs breyer and mrs hassi, we can put strict standards on paper. but if we don't have the ability to achieve it technically, then it's not going to do you any good. no, moreover, the netherlands is being condemned for wanting to speed up the introduction of soot filters. now, if all that is not allowed, then we shouldn't set strict standards either, because we can't meet them. i also know, and i say this again to mrs hassi - because mr blokland and mr maaten have already said many things with which i fully agree - i also know why the netherlands voted for this legislation. they did so because it gave them the opportunity to get some relief on a number of points. that is precisely why they voted for it. but what do you see when you compare the council's position with that of parliament? the environment ministers can sleep well at night, because they have set strict standards. but then they come home and they're confronted with an investigation by the environmental protection agency that says that everything they've put on that patient paper is not going to make it home anyway. this policy must be stopped. i can't explain that at home anymore. that is why i support the compromise reached here in parliament on all points. we in parliament say 'strictly' but in a feasible way.
in the past, the countryside dominated and the cities were the exception. this has changed considerably over the last century, as a result of population growth and the emergence of urban occupations, with the vast majority of europeans now living in real cities, in urban suburbs and in former rural areas heavily urbanised by industry, ports or mining. in the third world, but also in parts of europe, we see that such urban areas can become totally uninhabitable through traffic chaos, squatting, pollution and land speculation. lacking clean drinking water, a dense network of frequent public transportation, good waste disposal, and affordable, good housing, or lacking health, welfare, and education, the city becomes hell. once the city is in trouble, people with high incomes and high education can move away from the area, but workers and migrants have no choice but to stay. national and european policies are still based on the growth of the number of cars and on cuts in public services. it threatens the future of our cities. the european union, which was originally focused mainly on agricultural production and the countryside, has rightly shifted its attention in recent years to the cities. unfortunately, that was also the case in a negative sense. if the european commission's 2000 proposal for a public procurement obligation for urban transport had been adopted unchanged, it would have slowed down the expansion of tram networks, free public transport and the maintenance of a dense and frequent transport network. urban transport, urban planning, urban planning, green areas and cycle paths should be managed by the city and the region as much as possible. the european union can contribute to research, exchange and transfer of knowledge. this will help to combat risks and abuses, to promote initiatives for improvement and to strengthen the development and enforcement of better environmental standards. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i support the rapporteur, mr hegyi, in his efforts to promote clean transport, the protection of historic urban centres, careful water management, energy conservation and the protection of natural areas.
mr president, i shall not be addressing you today in my capacity as the official pse group shadow, so i shall not be taking my three minutes’ speaking time. i only wish to say that i support the conclusions of the ferber report. this report argues that there is in fact a breach of faith between the city of strasbourg and this institution. this is something i can wholeheartedly support. two public institutions dealing with public money should behave in a way that is not only legally just but also ethically and morally acceptable. after having participated in this working party, i find that in the tripartite negotiations one party has consistently acted according to those ethically just principles, and one party, namely the city of strasbourg, has not. i have become known in my short time in this parliament as one of the leaders of the anti-strasbourg campaign. i am not used to using words like ‘anti-’ because basically i do not like the way it rings. i have tried my utmost to avoid mixing up the discussions on parliament’s seat with the discussions on whether tax money has been well spent. i would like to put it to parliament today that the only people who have consistently mixed up these two debates have been, firstly, the mayor of strasbourg, who, when she addressed us during her hearing, reminded us that having such a debate was in fact quite dangerous because the alsace region has a very symbolic meaning. i am absolutely convinced that this is true and i totally agree. that is why i should like to use this short time in the sitting today to ask the city of strasbourg – if what it says is really true and if it really believes that this is a region that deserves to be honoured – why is it that since 1979 it has consistently acted in a way that, to put it mildly, is inconsistent with that aim? these are two public institutions that are trying to do the best for their citizens. i stand here because i wish to ensure that the money that dutch citizens pay into the account of the european union is well spent. i should just like to point out that, according to the auditors’ report, it has not been well spent and that this has in fact been, to put it mildly, ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the european parliament's discharge for 2004 certainly took an unusual course. if it were not for a newspaper article just before the discharge date which drew attention to the fact that the purchase of two new buildings in strasbourg had involved a compensation amount, we would probably have simply discharged in april. once that message was received, the administration responded, and rightly so, by canceling the purchase of those two buildings. i should also like to say that the committee on budgets has responded very adequately by immediately setting up an internal committee of inquiry to examine all aspects of the matter. i can only say that mr ferber has played a brilliant role in this process and in that committee of inquiry. he deserves all the credit for this. the committee of inquiry itself has also done a good job and has done it quickly. the conclusion for me is also - and it has already been said, so it is starting to get a little boring -: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not fair that two public institutions profit from each other because it is always about tax money. but legally, everything is watertight and we can therefore not talk about it much more. i think the ferber report rightly concludes that the purchase of buildings is still the best option for the taxpayer under certain conditions (if the price is right and if we buy land and buildings at the same time). i am in favour of this and i think it will happen soon. i would also point out that this purchase of the buildings has absolutely nothing to do with the seat issue. mr ferber has already said that a decision by the heads of government could change that. parliament itself can have an opinion on this, but it can do little to change it. it's all about what's in the best interest of the taxpayer. i think if the price is right then it's cheaper in the long run, and even in a fairly short run, than continuing to pay rent. a discharge is always about the past. apart from the buildings, the report also contains a lot of useful information and recommendations for the future. it contains useful recommendations on the contracts to be given to parliamentary assistants. there are also all kinds of useful recommendations on the new possibilities of communication techniques. i try to control them myself every day. as regards the general conclusions: i can confirm that my group broadly supports mr ferber's line.
i would like to congratulate mr ferber on the way he presented the discharge and the report and also on the way he worked. i would also like to thank my colleagues from the group of the european people's party - because i am only a substitute member of the committee on budgetary control - busuttil, stubb and grässle for the excellent cooperation we had with markus ferber, also in the preparation of the epp working group. mr ferber has presented a report which is critical (critical of the buildings, critical of some services) but fair. it gives some good recommendations on how to improve. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course he has paid attention to the question of the buildings, the problem we had with the strasbourg municipality. he has sometimes made it clear, in a very strong but fair way, that parliament too has some blame on this point and not just the other parties to the conflict. the cda therefore endorses the main conclusions of the ferber report on the implementation of the parliament's budget in 2004, as prepared and also adopted by the committee on budgetary control. i have a few comments to make, but i do not see them as being related to the ferber report, also because he has done an excellent job on strasbourg. tomorrow we'll be in the budget committee discussing possible purchases. it is clear that my party has objections to this, partly because the debate on this - i have only to refer to the words of mr stubb, whom i would also like to support on this point - should in fact be held before any building is purchased. moreover, parliament cannot actually speak about this until two years from now, at the time of the discharge for 2006, and that does not seem to me to be the right course of action. i also have a substantive comment on that purchase and that concerns the possible presence of asbestos. the environmental aspects of this have not been satisfactorily answered. once again, i pay tribute to mr ferber's report, but we cannot agree to the purchase of the building at this time because of the issues i have already mentioned.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i wish to begin by paying tribute to the rapporteur for a magnificent job. even if we did not always agree, he was extremely patient and open to cooperation, for which i am very grateful. it is very important that we make our position clear once and for all. i am concerned that the report we adopted in committee has been interpreted in so many different ways. there have been jubilant press releases stating that the european parliament has finally called for a framework directive, whereas others state that the european parliament has finally rejected the framework directive once and for all. we need to get away from a situation in which we have watered-down compromises that can be interpreted in various ways. i can state, on behalf of my group, that we do not want a framework directive. we do not want a one-size-fits-all solution for europe, precisely because we want subsidiarity. but what is subsidiarity? subsidiarity means that the national and local authorities can define their services of general interest and decide on how they are organised and financed. subsidiarity does not mean automatic exemption from the market rules. we are therefore talking about two kinds of subsidiarity here. i listened very carefully to what mr barroso said and again he left some room for interpretation. i would like to interpret his remarks as meaning that he also wants targeted and concrete solutions for real problems. because another recommendation i should like to make to this house is: if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it! in that case, it is not legislation we need, but solutions to real problems. i have worked for a local authority, so i know what the real problems are. local authorities have very legitimate concerns. however, we have to acknowledge that there is also a tendency towards protectionism. we will have to find the right balance here. we also need to get away from the ideological debate, or at least be honest and admit that there is a certain degree of ideology involved. some people very legitimately feel that the public authority should also be the provider of services. i agree with my colleague, mr hökmark, that the market can provide excellent services. some sectors have been liberalised and that did not mean that more people were excluded from access to those services, but quite the contrary: many services have come within reach of many more people, which is extremely social. a market is not a jungle; it has rules, because if there are no rules it is not a market. any market – even the simplest market on the market square – has rules and that is exactly what we mean by the social market economy we have in europe. we need to recognise the diversity of the member states and allow them to decide for themselves what they call ‘services of general interest’. finally, we should not try to define what services of general interest and services of general economic interest are, because the word ‘economic’ applies not to the nature of the service itself but to the way in which it is provided. to take an example: everybody will recognise that water is of general interest, but it may be provided in a purely commercial way. so we must not lose ourselves in a senseless debate on the differences between ‘of general interest’ and ‘general economic interest’. the only interest we should be looking at here is the interest of our citizens and consumers.
the exclusion of services of general interest from the scope of the controversial services directive was seen as a victory at the time. the public sector would be spared bolkestein, but that may have been a pyrrhic victory. the definition of services of general interest is only now being defined. the fight for a directive on such services should be a battle over what is and is not marketable and, above all, who can best judge that. we will defend tooth and nail what we understand by the public interest against liberalization. market effects in e.g. education, health care, culture: we have experience and we've had enough! we know europe as a 'never enough' place when it comes to liberalizing things that do not belong to the market but actually belong to society. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the community. the latter is already happening with a new onslaught on health care by the commission. we believe that this directive will be a means for citizens, pupils, patients and consumers to defend themselves against the 'never enough' of the union which is becoming more and more liberal. the directive should make clear that it is the member states and their citizens who determine what services are in the public interest, and that brings politics closer to the citizen, where it belongs.
mr president, in the 19th century the government took on many tasks which were not originally governmental. education, access to health care and the regulation of working hours are examples of tasks which were not previously primarily its responsibility. it was and is necessary for the government to regulate tasks where the market fails. the distinction between services of general interest and services of general economic interest is theoretical. the purpose of this distinction is therefore to free services from the market and to limit government intervention. the limitation of government intervention is a good aim in areas where citizens can be expected to be self-sufficient and responsible. however, making this distinction should not mean restricting access for citizens. i therefore call for restraint in the release of services of general economic interest to the market. society is served by a government that gives justice to the weak and ensures access to services essential to daily life.
mr president, as the coordinator of the pse members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs i asked to be the last speaker on the pse group side, precisely in order to remove some of the prejudices and misunderstandings about this debate. so i hope i can eliminate some of those misunderstandings. firstly, i want to thank mr barroso for his speech and to say that we in the pse group fully understand his four principles and his view that it is necessary to create more legal certainty for the service providers, whether they are public or private or something in between, for the member states and the decentralised public authorities, and for the citizens. as mr harbour rightly said, that is the crucial element. i think mr barroso has correctly interpreted the report that mr rapkay prepared on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and that we voted for by a large majority in the committee. we have not expressed a preference for any particular form of legal instrument, but have made it clear that legislative initiatives are needed and that we should have a full political process of decision-making on this, in which parliament and the council can participate fully. codecision is the right way to deal with these political issues. that is the message of the report. the report does not say that there should be a horizontal instrument or sector-specific instruments only; it leaves the options open and says that both methods can be used in parallel. it will be clear from the debates that preferences differ, but also that there are a lot of prejudices about the options and preferences we promote. in my political group, i chaired a group of legal experts who drafted a text. unfortunately i have the impression that many did not read this text, because if mr harbour had read it he would see that it is not a political statement but a clear attempt to reconcile the rules of the market, of competition, the subsidiarity that we want to guarantee for local authorities, the quality aspects and the importance of public service and services of general interest and economic interest for the citizens of europe. this is not ideological; it is a concrete attempt to reconcile these. the draft is open for debate and we hope you will participate in discussing it. but it is up to the commission to come up with real proposals and then we can set to work on the legislative methods and formulations. for the vote on this report, again i state that we have agreed to disagree on the issue of which instruments would be preferable. there are amendments now from both sides, from the alde group and from the verts/ale group, to try again to force a decision on the preference. i do not think that is wise. i agree fully with mrs thyssen that it is wiser to stick to the agreement that we had and to leave this issue open. it is the commission that has to decide and if one of those amendments is adopted the only result will be that whole report would fall. that would be a pity because, as everyone has said, mr rapkay and the committee on economic and monetary affairs have produced a good report.
the text of the resolution, mr president, strikes a good balance between the freedom which member states must retain in the future in organising and defining their public tasks and the respect for the rules of the internal market. the focus of europe - and the text of the resolution is clear on this too - must be on legal clarification and a sectoral approach where there are problems and uncertainties. we are asking for legal certainty, but legal certainty does not mean restricting competition and protectionism. we also ask for legal certainty to help local and regional authorities, but we must be well aware that these same local authorities want to retain their own margin of choice and do not want additional rules imposed. we must above all make room for diversity and not freeze it in a horizontal regulatory framework. the dynamic must be maintained for a europe that is capable of fighting. president barroso, i very much appreciate your presence in person in this debate. we ask you for clarity, but you can expect clarity from us. the epp will therefore vote against the amendment by the socialists calling for a framework law. mr van den burg spoke of the prejudices and misunderstandings of the socialist group's intentions. but your group's chairman, mr schulz, is even feeding those prejudices, because he says that we must guarantee social standards at european level, that we must also guarantee quality standards and the quality of service at european level. i 'm not going to do that . the commission has no framework law and no horizontal regulatory framework.
in writing. this report is more than just the approval of the 2004 accounts. without amendment no 9 it would also mean an authorization for the bureau of this parliament to spend the reserve on the acquisition of buildings in strasbourg. we do not object to the calculation that shows that in the long run buying is more advantageous than continuing a lease. if that were the only way, we would vote in favour. more importantly, it is an important contribution to the sustainability of the monthly strasbourg weeks. they cost €200,000,000 a year or more now. in september 1999 the dutch parliament unanimously voted against the continuation of the european parliament's meetings in two different cities. the dutch representatives in all eu bodies were therefore called upon to put an end to this as soon as possible. this is in line with what the media and public opinion in the netherlands have been saying for many years. the purchase of buildings in strasbourg is seen in the netherlands as one of the most important decisions of this parliament, but it is not discussed separately after the purchase authorization hidden in this item. we shall therefore vote against.
in 2004, romania and bulgaria were considered less mature than the ten new member states. there was no doubt that with some delay they would receive equal treatment. the group of the european united left has always supported this approach. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. we emphasize in our opinion human rights, proper democratic governance and good environmental policy. when i voted in 2005, i voted in principle for the future accession of bulgaria and romania. the question then remained open as to when and how this enlargement could take place in a good way. this parliament has provided for the right to decide on the postponement of the vote in respect of romania, while the application of this option in respect of bulgaria has been left entirely to the council. this was at a time when the concern about the shortcomings in romania was the greatest and bulgaria was expected to cause the least problems. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. in both countries, the situation of the roma population is worse than in most other new member states. in a number of cases, the place where they have long resided is declared illegal and they are expelled. the hungarian minority in romania and the turkish minority in bulgaria are also facing problems, although they are less severe than in the recent past. it is no longer a deliberate governmental disadvantage but a laxity in the face of the discrimination that ultra-nationalists exercise against these groups. anti-semitism has not disappeared either. in previous debates on this subject, my group has put forward proposals to demand improvements, including in relation to the illegal payments being demanded in bulgaria from transit european union citizens of turkish origin. unfortunately, a majority of this parliament has not supported our demands. this was the case with rosia montana, where mining is prepared with the aid of dangerous poison. a communication circulated by romania on 23 september reports that an environmental impact assessment has been launched and that consultations are under way with neighbouring hungary on the danger of toxic waste water flowing into the country. unfortunately, as there is no final result yet, it cannot be involved in the final judgment of this parliament on romanian membership on 11 october. my group fears that after accession many problems will have to be solved and that, in the event of setbacks, further enlargement of the european union will become increasingly controversial in public opinion in the present member states. nevertheless, after the preparatory debate, it seems that a majority of my group will vote in favour of accession on 1 january 2007. a major argument for this is that other member states have joined earlier despite their unresolved problems and that a year's delay will not bring about significant improvements. finally, i should also like to inform you that my party, the socialist party, has spoken out against the 2007 accession date together with the christian democrats, on the basis of the many problems in the dutch parliament. we think that there are still a lot of problems to be solved, but the real vote will take place on 11 october.
the second report is due to be submitted in the autumn. mr president, i am replacing my colleague pierre moscovici, our rapporteur for romania, who unfortunately could not be present at this important moment. let me begin by warmly congratulating both countries on the conclusions presented by the commission today on the date of accession of romania and bulgaria. i warmly welcome both countries and romania in particular. after all that has happened, the history of that country, 50 years of dictatorship, 15 years of hard work, the price is now being paid by the european union in the form of membership. my group has consistently supported the accession of both countries, bulgaria and romania. it was the various governments, not only the present but also the previous ones, which made it possible for romania to develop the dynamic which now leads to the conclusion which the european commission has put forward. it is a huge achievement for both countries and an important day in bucharest and in sofia, in bulgaria and in romania. i also welcome the remark made by the president of the commission that, on the basis of the continuing progress of these two countries, it can be decided not to use this deferral option now, but simply to start on 1 january next year. the commission has indicated that there are sufficient possibilities, including for the commission in cooperation with these two new member states, to ensure that the remaining open issues are carefully cleared up in the coming years in a process of verification and cooperation between the european commission and these two countries, and this on the basis of clearly and concretely formulated objectives to which both the commission and the two governments will commit themselves. the treaty provides sufficient guarantees for the commission to ensure that the interests of the union are safeguarded in that process. a one-year delay would probably have meant that both sides would no longer make efforts and would have led to a kind of automatic membership. the progress and dynamism of both countries are now being used to eliminate the last remnants of the accession process in a thorough manner and to clear the desk as quickly as possible. in short, congratulations, thank you to the commission, thank you to commissioner rehn for all the work he has done over the past few years and once again my congratulations to romania and bulgaria.
rapporteur. – mr president, we are bringing to the final debate this report on turkey at a special moment. this report is preceding the european commission’s progress report, and therefore provides a unique opportunity to influence and enrich the stance of the european commission. this does not mean, however, that there would be so much need to influence the commission on this point, because the report as i have presented it to the committee on foreign affairs, and as i present it now here in this sitting, has been prepared in very good cooperation with the european commission and with commissioner rehn himself. i also think of mr rehn’s words when i presented the report in the committee on foreign affairs, words of welcome which were very clear. the committee on foreign affairs adopted the report by a large majority: 54 votes to 6. the report has been described as fair but tough: fair because it is based on facts and is constructive; tough because, unfortunately, there is reason for criticism of at least a strong push from parliament. the basic conclusion of the report is that we, as the european parliament, regret that there is a slowdown in reforms. we had expected at the start of the negotiations in 2004, when we made a decision, that the impressive reforms of 2002-2004 would continue. unfortunately they have slowed down. that is not to say that nothing has happened. i compliment the turkish politicians on their ninth package of legislative reforms and the many proposals that were adopted by parliament. i also compliment the turkish officials for their professional work in the negotiations so that the first chapter could be provisionally closed. so why then is there criticism? because we would have liked to have seen more progress in the mainstream of further political reforms. i will mention a few vital areas. firstly, on freedom of expression, we as a parliament have already criticised some parts of the new penal code. although it was a big improvement, some articles raised doubts – article 301, first and foremost. some people have been set free. however, the reconfirmation of the sentence of mr hrant dink proves, as ali birand, the famous journalist, also stated so clearly, that article 301 has to be changed or repealed. i ask the turkish government and the turkish people to see the need for this. it is important for the freedom of the turkish people, it is important for the image of turkey in europe and the wider world. second, a lot needs to be done as regards freedom of religion. i was in turkey a few weeks ago. until recently, monasteries and churches have been taken away, and the new proposed law on foundation, as the commissioner said, is not good enough. so please let this stop. give back the properties to the religious minorities and change the proposal of the law on foundation so that if they cannot be given back, then at least there is a good compensation for the minority churches. also, the training of clergy must resume. since 1971 seminaries are closed, and for a country that wants to be european, it is very important that it should be as easy to build a christian church in turkey as it is to build a turkish mosque in the rest of the european union. we said we want priority for these reforms because that is the european spirit. we ask it as a parliament, and turkey signed, in the revised accession partnership, a commitment to achieve the short-term priorities before the end of 2007, and then we as a parliament asked turkey to do what was agreed. a third situation that worries us is the situation in the south-east. we strongly condemn the pkk and any terrorism. we strongly condemn it – there is never any excuse for terrorism; but at the same time we ask turkey to try to find peaceful interlocutors, try to find a political way and invest in the social and economic development of the south-east. a last major point: cyprus. it was agreed at the start of negotiations that there would be no formal recognition ceremony by turkey of cyprus but that there would be an ankara protocol as a kind of normalisation of relations. the protocol was signed, the council asked for it to be implemented before the end of 2006, and it is now a matter of credibility – also for the credibility of our institutions – that turkey fulfils its commitments and implements a protocol before the end of 2006. as a parliament, we also make it very clear that we want to see more efforts in the northern part of the island in terms of trade regulation. but once again, turkey cannot just sign up to this: it should do what it promised to do. i shall finish with one last point – i shall try to make it short. there was a vast majority in the committee for the basic line of the report and i thank the members for it because with it we are giving an important signal. there was unease, however, because of an amendment on the armenian genocide. allow me in two sentences to make my position clear. in paragraph 50 of the report, as rapporteur i tried to put forward a position that is both strong but also realistic. it says that recognition as such is formally not a criterion, but for a country on its road to europe it is indispensable to come to terms with its past and therefore we want committees, research, open discussion. i think that is a line that is strong but fair and beyond criticism. i know that, with an amendment from mrs de keyser, another text has been voted in as well. it is of course the responsibility of every member of parliament to vote as he or she pleases, but if you ask for my opinion, the text in paragraph 50 is the best text and the one that takes us the furthest. i have been speaking for too long. i want to thank members once again for their support up till now and i just want to say that i hope, as the rapporteur for turkish accession, that this signal – a tough but fair signal – will be perceived by turkish politicians and the turkish public as an encouragement to restart the reform process, to vigorously support those people who want it, so that i as rapporteur can be more positive in my next report than i have been here today. (applause)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women 's rights and equal opportunities . mr president, i would like to begin by thanking mr eurlings for his hard work, which has not always been easy. unfortunately, the present version of the report has been a disappointment to many of us, a disappointment to reform-minded turks, a disappointment to europeans who want turkey as an ally and, last but not least, a disappointment to the women of turkey, because of the opposition to turkish accession to the eu. as rapporteur on women's rights, i have seen that turkey is making real progress on women's rights, partly as a result of pressure from the eu in general and the european parliament in particular. the enlargement strategy to encourage reforms in the applicant countries is working. but it only works if those reforms are also recognized. as mr eurlings' party in the netherlands likes to say, after the sour must come the sweet. the eurlings report does not recognise the things that turkey has already done. it is negative, not only in content but also in tone. this is the way to thwart reforms in turkey, by undermining public support for them and giving turkish eurosceptics a powerful weapon in the upcoming turkish elections. what we really want is for the criticisms in that report to be translated into action, and that will be good for everyone. there 's another way . the european union is also calling on the turkish authorities to take all necessary steps to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the obligations of the european union. this is not part of the copenhagen criteria and has therefore never been asked of a member state. delete all references to the privileged partnership. the aim of the negotiations is membership of a reformed turkey. implement these changes and we can keep the turks for europe. implement these changes and we can welcome this secular state with its muslim population as an ally in the fight against terrorism and fundamentalism. if you do not change this, you will simply be leaving the reformers in turkey, millions of men and women, in the cold.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, today we are having an important debate on a matter which concerns us all: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. turkey is a key partner in a crucial region. it is clearer than ever that we must bind turkey to the european union and that we must support the reformers in the country. turkey has committed itself to a unifil operation in lebanon. we must help turkey to play a positive and constructive role in this area in the region. we definitely need a partner there. the negotiation process is the best way to develop a better and stronger relationship with turkey. the negotiations will take a long time, we all know that. but we remain of the view that a critical but constructive dialogue is the best way to bring that process to a successful conclusion. the european parliament's reports must therefore be balanced and must not lose sight of the ultimate goal of membership. building on the progress made in recent years, but also acknowledging that delays have occurred in recent years. we are trying to balance a number of points in that report through a series of amendments from our group and, in response to what mr brok said, our group does not necessarily accept automatically what comes out of the committee on foreign affairs. speculation about alternative forms of association is not good for the process, and that is our continuing objection to article 71 in the report. we must not allow any confusion about that. the negotiations are being conducted with a view to full membership. fortunately, the eurlings report makes this clear, and we agree with it, and i have no doubt that mr eurlings is committed to this. it is clear, however, and i agree with what mr brok said on this, that the current institutional framework is not sufficient for the accession of new member states beyond the two we have discussed earlier today. and fortunately, this is also stated clearly in the eurling report: we are not going to accept any further decisions on enlargement without the necessary reforms in the institutional process. the two points which are really our concern in the report. firstly, as regards the armenian genocide, i agree with the position taken by mr eurlings on this. the compromise we reached in the negotiations is exactly what we need: the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the conflict, and it is a party to the conflict. i hope that we will be able to remove that part from the report tomorrow. the whole thing is not formally part of the copenhagen criteria and should remain so. finally, as regards cyprus, we agree that the ankara protocol should be ratified. at the same time, we also feel that we must do something to help the turkish cypriots in cyprus more. our group will discuss the list of votes again tonight and on the basis of that and the vote tomorrow we will make our final judgment.
i have a great problem with the eurlings report as it stands. the problem is not to be found in the many critical paragraphs calling on the turkish government to do more and to speed up reforms. the turkish government is rightly called upon to abolish the infamous article 301, which has already led to dozens of trials against writers and journalists, as soon as possible. my problem with the report is that there are a few paragraphs in the report which are completely out of line, in particular the paragraph which mentions the recognition of the armenian genocide as a kind of condition for accession and the cyprus paragraphs which make it seem as if turkey is the only one to blame for the current problem. the original report, as presented by the rapporteur, was critical but fair and good agreements were made during our discussion in the committee on foreign affairs to improve the report by many amendments. the mistake was that, during that debate, wording was added to the report at the last minute by means of all kinds of oral amendments, which threw the balance of the report out of balance. that was a great success for a number of lobby groups, but it has worsened the report drastically. and what we want, what my group wants by introducing a number of amendments, is actually to go back to the original eurlings report because we thought it was both critical and fair. i am therefore pleased to hear today, and also to read in the interviews of the rapporteur in the turkish press, that under the motto 'better half-turned than completely lost' he is prepared to support the efforts to restore the report to its original form. i therefore count on his support in the votes tomorrow. why is it so important that the report be critical but at the same time fair? i would very much like the european parliament to continue to play a role in the reform debate in turkey by supporting those groups and those people who, like us, are fighting for the same thing in their daily work. it is precisely these people who have approached us in the last few weeks and said: this report in its present form is not helping us. it is only giving wind in the back to those in turkey who are against the reforms and i do not want the european parliament to help those who do not want to help turkey to move forward. if that report does not change, if it remains in its present form, then that means that we are putting ourselves out of the debate. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. that is why the changes are necessary, and i count on your support, i count on the support of the rapporteur. i really hope that the majority of this house is prepared to go that way: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
president. - mr eurlings, you have written a very good report. the council and the commission have two questions to ask. they concern the phenomenon of the so-called 'deep state' (derin devlet) and the acute lack of religious freedom in the republic of turkey. the anti-european forces in turkey are gathering in opaque state structures, nationalist circles in the army, police, gendarmerie and security services. to what extent do these forces, collectively known as the 'deep state', block the current accession negotiations? persistent speculation links that same ominous "deep state" directly to the murder of italian clergyman andrea santoro in trabzon in february of this year. that brings me to the downright humiliating position of the christian church in turkey. their pastors and members are considered foreigners. contacts between churches and the government are handled through the ministry of foreign affairs. i would like to see action on this point from the council and the commission. or does fear of an islamic advance into turkey make you reluctant to press for complete religious freedom in the land of ataturk?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). the extension of the programme to member states not participating in the euro is also necessary and desirable. it is of the utmost importance that confidence in the euro is not undermined by counterfeiting. there are two issues that are raising questions about the euro at the moment. firstly, the use of the euro as a means of payment in countries outside the euro zone. in particular, montenegro and turkey are widely accepting the euro as a means of payment. can commissioner kallas indicate how these countries are involved in the programme to combat counterfeiting and the circulation of counterfeit euro coins? in 2004, the european parliament adopted the report on medals and coins resembling euro coins. there has been a sharp increase in fraud involving coins resembling euro coins. commissioner, can you tell us whether the council regulation has had any effect on this point?
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr krehl, for his report and for the results which have now been incorporated into the directive. this is also true of the results achieved by mrs hübner in the debate at european level over the last two and a half years. i'm all for earmarking. that may be said in this chamber, but i have not heard it. but it also means that we can avoid the uncertainty and the left-right split in policy. we are hereby updating cohesion policy to a new agenda: the european union is not a party to the lisbon agenda. the emphasis is shifting from less concrete and less asphalt to educating our people in the knowledge society. we must emphasize the need for a strong competition on a world scale over the next 20 years. the role of parliament in the new period, in the 2009-2010 interim review, is therefore central. then it gets exciting . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the focus will then be even more on the added value of the policy. it is for that reason that i also supported the green amendment in committee, which calls for a greater role for parliament in the re-election process. i also ask the european commission, the commissioner, whether we will receive enough information to be able to debate the financial re-prioritization for 2013-2020 properly here. i ask you to give us information on what the national states are doing now. i feel a reluctance on the part of our member states to report adequately, and i find that a real shame. the means are given and the response must be adequate. the new synthesis for the new period and the new financial relations, which indeed requires a strong reorientation of policy and a lasting role for the regions and cities in cohesion policy.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. president. - i am very pleased that we are now discussing this matter, although it is late, because we really do need to speed up. we must also keep up the pace because of global competition. mrs barsi-pataky has already outlined the framework very well with regard to the possible delay, the legal framework, and so on. can i talk about the public-private partnership again tonight? it has been calculated that such a forward-looking project could create 150,000 additional jobs. i know the business community is eager to get involved in the project. in addition, there are also regions in europe, such as bavaria and the northern netherlands, which are willing to invest structural fund funds in this further development. this has already been done in the past with a lofar radio telescope project in the northern netherlands. the structural funds - and you know that, mr barrot, you were for a time the commissioner for regional policy - must be used more than ever on technologies and information. i ask you: are you prepared to take over this development of decentralized involvement and financing? you're talking about a green paper. could this be the bridge to bring about that acceleration? i am also thinking of the new state aid rules. mrs kroes has just created opportunities for projects of this kind. i think we are not using the other instruments sufficiently in this parliament and in the european union. galileo is still leading the world. europe is still ahead. but galileo must not slip into the implementation phase. galileo cannot stay afloat, it has to land.
the informal summit in tampere in recent weeks has made one thing clear: the member states are fundamentally divided on how to deal with illegal immigration. the need for a solution is clear, but there is disagreement about the means. the member states are therefore eager to bring the immigration problem to the european conference tables. and with that, history repeats itself. in the late 1990s, the netherlands and germany had major problems with the influx of asylum seekers. they called for solidarity and burden-sharing. however, france, spain, italy and portugal blocked any solution at european level. now the northern member states do not respond to the call for help. the solution, however, must be found at european level. a common market with a shared area in which citizens can move freely requires consistent security of the external borders and regulated access to that area. the european policy on illegal immigration is necessary, but it must be such that countries do not continue to act independently. the legalization of 700 000 illegal immigrants by the spanish authorities without the knowledge of other member states cannot be reconciled with the desire for help from other member states. finally, president bush has admitted that there were secret cia prisons. the countries in which these prisons were located and whether there were any in the european union are still unclear. i would like to hear what the council and commission are doing to put an end to this ambiguity.
the immigration problem is one of the greatest challenges in 2006 and you would think that the urgency of this problem has now been felt in all the member states, but nothing could be further from the truth! the report on the tampere meeting last week was a toothache. the lack of agency was rampant. a real humanitarian tragedy is taking place at the external borders of the union, thanks in part to the failed policies of the european member states, and i have to tell you, i am truly ashamed. if there is any focus, it is on strengthening the external borders. frontex is the key word. but frontex depends on the resources and manpower provided by the member states, and these resources remain extremely limited to this day. it is an illusion to think that the flow of migrants can be contained by strengthening the external borders alone. we shouldn't want that either. the reasons why migrants leave their countries en masse must be examined. the link between migration and development is of paramount importance. large and strategic investments in the countries of origin are necessary. call it what you will, a modern marshall plan. mr president-in-office of the council, take the example of commissioner frattini, who has repeatedly called for a comprehensive package of measures. only then will the union be able to have any effect. the commission's proposals are not only a means of achieving the objectives of the treaty, but also a means of ensuring that the community's objectives are met. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report. provide for such cooperation agreements with the countries of origin and transit. ensure the early establishment of a european return policy in which everyone is entitled to respectful treatment. you're gonna have to make do with those information campaigns. get that european green card. take on your own black market. advice, to stay in your metaphor, i'd ask you to ride as fast as you can.
mr president, we urgently need the bridging clause for more efficient and democratic decision-making. the eu must speak with one voice and not allow the united states to determine unilaterally the conditions of our joint counter-terrorism efforts. this applies, for example, to the negotiations on the post-2007 pnr agreement, but also to cia activities. last week the member states issued a very feeble condemnation of secret cia detention camps, but i would like to know whether the europeans will continue to use the information obtained in these secret and illegal prisons. on fundamental rights, which are conspicuously absent from this debate, in 2004 the commission obtained the approval of the european parliament on condition that the commission become the champion of fundamental rights; but so far the commission has been fairly timid. for example, you condemn homophobia with words, but will you also take action, commissioner frattini, for example on the basis of article 7 against homophobic actions and statements by eu governments and ministers? will you finally end the unacceptable discrimination against married gay couples? commissioner and council, will you be tough on terrorism, but also tough on intolerance in europe?
europe is a bicycle. this quote, of course, invites all sorts of vague comparisons, because with the schengen information system, a tool which allows us to identify illegal immigrants, among others, we are engaged in a kind of political tour de france. we're all racing down the same road with a dead-end. among other challenges, preventing migration is only one, mr frattini makes a solitary attempt to move the case forward on a tricycle. the green card, a nice idea, but so far, unfortunately, air cycling. is the council prepared, commissioner frattini, to give a quick mountain bike to these files too? what also remains is the presidency's remark that majority decisionmaking works. that is true, but i am all the more surprised that the council wants to restrict the co-decision rights of this parliament when it comes to biometrics. are we not cycling around the schengen information system fast enough? and what do you think of it, mr frattini? i look forward to the answers.
rapporteur. – it does not make a big difference, but we prefer the original sequence, and therefore we oppose this shifting of paragraph 30. (el parlamento rechaza este cambio)
rapporteur. – mr president, i do not want to hold up the vote any longer, but here too we prefer the original sequence because we think it is better.
mr president, i have a simple oral amendment to correct the text. it suggests that a committee of experts should be set up by the turkish government to look into the issue of the genocide, ‘under the auspices of the united nations’. this is our idea not their idea, so to make it clear that it is our proposal that this committee should also work under the auspices of the united nations, we want to improve the text by replacing ‘under the auspices of the united nations’ with ‘which should be under the auspices of the united nations’. we are therefore adding the words ‘which should be’.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, i wanted to make a correction to the voting list for the sake of clarity for the members of my delegation. the vote on the original text of paragraph 72 was split into parts, with the first and second parts incorrectly marked 'no'. that must be both positive, that there can be no misunderstanding. we shall vote for the first and second parts by a majority.
rapporteur. – mr president, i see that the oral amendments have been distributed. they merely update the text of this amendment, so i do not think we need to have much discussion on them.
the vote on this report will put an end to an intensive process which has lasted for several months. the vote, as this parliament has voted on the amendments, brings the text of the report very close to the original text, as i have proposed it as rapporteur to the committee on foreign affairs. the report is rigorous but fair. just because we as a parliament are expressing our seriousness and commitment, but also because we are asking turkey to show its commitment, both in terms of implementing the ankara protocol by the end of this year and in terms of carrying out political reforms in the area of freedom of expression and freedom of religion by the end of 2007. i would also like to make it clear that there is no misunderstanding about the text on the armenian genocide. although it is not a formal condition, we believe that it is essential for a country on its way to europe to come to terms with its past. i hope that turkey will also see this paragraph 50 as an additional incentive to face the facts with its neighbour armenia. mr president, i come to the conclusion that the report is fair but tough. the european parliament is fulfilling its responsibility for safeguarding european values and the accession criteria with this report. i therefore ask all members to support the report as broadly as possible. i hope that turkey will see it as an incentive to speed up its reforms. (applause from the centre)
in writing. negotiations with turkey are in the interests of the kurds, armenians, religious minorities and political prisoners. they are also important for the millions of europeans of turkish origin, who feel affirmed as equal eu citizens. i hope that these negotiations will eventually lead to a democratic, multi-ethnic and multi-religious turkey living in peace with all its neighbours. it doesn't look like it for a while. the negotiations are likely to quickly come to a standstill because of the delay in the federalisation of cyprus and the resulting continuing tensions between turkey and cyprus. in addition, there are forces within turkey which are constantly opposed to equal rights for different cultures and opinions and which regard any accommodation of the kurds and armenians as an attack on turkish honour. turkey's eventual entry into the eu is likely to be preceded by 30 years of negotiations with many interruptions. anyone who wants to speed up this process in order to provide europe with a larger army or more cheap labour is failing the democratic forces and the underprivileged in turkey. acceptance of an unchanged turkey will lower the level of democracy and human rights in europe and make the eu even more controversial in public opinion.
mr president, the economic and trade relations between the european union and india are of the utmost importance to both partners. therefore, both the eu and india must make every effort to remove unnecessary barriers. first of all, this must be done within the framework of the world trade organization. india must do its utmost in the g20 to ensure that the doha development agenda is implemented smoothly. the multilateral trading system also offers enormous opportunities to a country like india. the country will therefore have to make a reasonable offer in the form of a reduction in its import tariffs. the question of import tariffs must also be discussed at bilateral level. the european commission has repeatedly stressed the importance of good bilateral agreements, and i do too. both tariff and non-tariff barriers constitute a major obstacle to european companies. i call on the indian authorities to put an end to this protectionist policy.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, i thank the commissioner for opening this debate, because i see that he agrees with parliament on a number of points. i share his concern about the development of the north sea stocks of herring and sole, but at the same time it is also clear that this is not related to fishing effort but perhaps to climate change, which sometimes cannot be fully explained. but for the record, i share his concern on that point. i am glad that in some respects it is still moving in the direction of parliament. a major criticism i had of the european commission's approach was that the proposal was already there before there was a proper opinion from the regional advisory council for the north sea. i don't think that's the way to go about it. i think it is essential if we are to maintain a strong voice for fisheries that we give these regional advisory councils a full say in the debate and that we also allow them to make a contribution beforehand. i say this with all the more emphasis because these regional advisory councils include not only fisheries organisations but also the world wildlife fund and other nature organisations. and that is what gives stability and a basis for policy in a given region. as regards the application of the msy objectives, i am glad that the commission has now made the communication on this subject. this was still missing prior to the management plan for sole and shoal, although the msy objectives had in fact already been presented by the commission. my criticism is mainly that this has been done for the sole and the sole, but not for a number of other control plans, for example the bay of biscay. it also seems to me that the right order is for us in parliament to have a principled discussion on the application of msy objectives before they are introduced for a particular fish species. i welcome the commissioner's taking some steps in the right direction, but there are a number of other points which may require further consultation. i also hope that the council will make some further progress towards parliament to ensure that there is at least a balanced approach. the commissioner has said that he thinks that setting three-year quotas is a problem anyway because it would not allow you to adjust quickly enough. i doubt that, not least because the sole and plaice fishery is perhaps the best controlled fishery in europe and also because of the way in which it is handled by the fisheries organizations. i would point out, among other things, the producer organisations in a number of ports which work closely together and where there is very good cooperation between the member states, the authorities, the control authorities and the fisheries organisations themselves. it would be attractive, even for the european commission, to switch to a three-year tac in the long term. perhaps i am already anticipating the discussion on the commission's communication on msy objectives - but the essential point in my view is that regional advisory councils should be given a dominant role in european decision-making, be consulted on any commission proposal beforehand, and that their views be taken into account in the reasoning of the proposals. we shall also be faced with discussions within the fisheries sector in europe which are clearly of little interest to a large number of member states. we are not six or 15 member states anymore, we are 25. and what is a hungarian minister for fisheries to say about the shrimp in the north sea or a dutch minister for fisheries about the fisheries around cyprus? of course there are general guidelines, but it is essential that these regional advisory councils continue to play an important role in the future, also in the implementation of the plans, in order to maintain a support for fisheries. that is why this point is also given a lot of attention in my report. it can provide a basis for fisheries decisions. but more importantly, here's what i'm gonna do. we are often in a convulsion with scientific advice on setting quotas and then - let us be honest - it is a political handshake in the council. scientific advice is therefore drafted in such a conservative way that the outcome in the council is already taken into account. we have to get out of this situation! we must ensure that there is cooperation between the sector and the scientific institutes much sooner and much sooner, so that plans can be properly weighed. i would like to thank the commissioner again for having accommodated us on a number of points. the vote tomorrow will show what parliament's position is. i am firmly convinced that the commissioner will also give parliament's input a dominant position in the council's discussion.
i would like to add that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a commissioner who is always there and regularly attends committee meetings is being hammered to death after five minutes tonight! we had to wait 10 minutes in the vote this afternoon for mrs frattini, who will have 15 minutes to speak. this commissioner is always present at all times. the fact that we are debating agricultural policy at 12:30 or 12 o'clock in the evening is linked to your agenda. (the president interrupts) i join that protest and i shall also report it to the chairman of the committee on agriculture tomorrow. i shall now come to the subject, but i repeat my strong criticism that a commissioner for agriculture has been hammered here who did not ask for this time, but is here and is seriously debating with us. the time she's here is not her choice but your office's choice. the commissioner has said that she understands what parliament wants. the essence of the subject we are discussing today is that imported products must meet the requirements of production in the european union. that is essential and that is clearly stated in the report. my group, the epp, is satisfied with the outcome of the agriculture committee and what was discussed there has been reflected in amendments. i would like to add a political comment. in the future trade agreements, the world trade agreements, it is essential that imported products meet the same requirements as european products. this is true not only of organic farming but of agriculture as a whole. i hope that we in parliament will give the commissioner for agriculture sufficient backing on this point, including in the discussion in the european commission with her colleague mr mandelson. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and i will recommend to my group tomorrow to vote for the report as amended in the committee on agriculture.
mr president, there is a great need for reflection on nanotechnologies. the design of materials at the molecular level creates new properties whose effects on human health and the environment are still unknown. the european commission is proposing an action plan for the period up to 2009. the action plan expresses high expectations of benefits for the economy and society. however, the commission sees ethical considerations and public concerns as obstacles in the first place. in this respect, the action plan is certainly unbalanced, commissioner. unfortunately, this is also true of the ransdorf report, although it does offer some counterbalance. what's missing? first, openness to concerns other than safety risks, including the desirability of new technologies and philosophical questions. the benefits and possible harmful effects must first be identified. this should prevent choices being made early in the development of technology solely on the basis of technical-economic value judgments. secondly, we need to focus more on international coordination in the european union, not only in the area of toxicity testing and life cycle risk assessment, but also in legislation on standardisation, labelling and liability. the person who places the nanoparticles on the market is liable for any damage. finally, the desirability of patenting nanotechnologies and materials, particularly basic and general engineering and materials with a large number of different applications. can the commission provide a critical analysis of this? it is therefore necessary to consider the extent to which patents and licences are putting poor countries further behind and how this can be prevented.
mr president, innovation accounts for some 30% of competitiveness in the highly developed countries, according to the latest survey by the world economic forum. this is particularly true of nanotechnology. for example, nanomedicine is creating opportunities for better treatment of cancer, heart disease, diabetes, alzheimer's and parkinson's. in sum, these diseases account for two thirds of european mortality. european research institutions and companies are among the world leaders in this field. in the netherlands alone, the nano-industry has a turnover of 20 billion euros. in my country, for example, the government is investing a record amount in the centre for molecular medicine in eindhoven. companies are also adding a lot to that, and that's an example of an offensive strategy. the world's development, competition, demands such an attitude. the commission's proposal is to make choices, invest and support europe's core infrastructure, and that is now well expressed in the ransdorf report. it is then the task of the european commission, the member states, regional authorities, industry and smes: i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the seventh framework programme for research and development, the european technology platforms and the knowledge regions have provided a good basis, together with the structural funds, also in terms of finances. and then there are the risks. of course, the risks must be considered, especially on a global scale within unesco/oecd. and finally, this autumn, commissioner potočnik is launching a roadmap for research infrastructure. it will then be possible to identify areas, regions or clusters which have the real potential to compete globally. investing is not a global brain drain, but it must become a brain drain in this area, a win for the european economy and the well-being of our citizens.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade . mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr hutchinson for this important report. effective development assistance requires coherence between the eu's aid approach and the eu's trade approach. if we are to achieve the mdgs by 2015, aid and trade can and must complement each other. unfortunately, the reality is often different. aid and trade policies, including agriculture, still too often work in tandem. in this way, it will certainly take another hundred years in africa before we make poverty history. at the moment there is little coherence in our european policy. the trade negotiators of commissioner mandelson preach free trade with global rules, the developers of commissioner michel work on the millennium development goals and the agricultural subsidy policy is against the objectives of both camps. i would like to compare the different policy areas to 'ships that pass in the night'. unfortunately, the development side is all too often compromised. for example, in the economic partnership agreements, the famous or sometimes notorious epas, the commercial side is far too dominant. the development side is too often referred to as the existing aid funds. a truly integrated approach, with real extra money and new development plans, is often far too little. this is the case, in particular, where the aid effectiveness could be increased by the aid provided by the epas, thanks to the increased local cooperation which they provide. we must assume that the weak parties to the negotiations will of course be given the necessary facilities in the area of development, that fair agreements and a realistic timetable will emerge from the epas. the replacement of fiscal transition revenues with a reformed tax system, for example, and the institutional strengthening of public services and social sectors, education, health care, are prerequisites for a real trade take-off. the current lack of coordination and coherence is not only ineffective but also contrary to article 178 of the treaty and therefore unacceptable. one of the reasons is that the trade experts, or the developers, often lack knowledge and expertise of each other's fields of work. the lack of willingness to put the real costs and benefits of integrated development on a par with each other and to seek new funds jointly - and therefore also jointly in the council - also plays a role. in fact, various european policies - agriculture, trade, development and others - often run directly counter to each other. agriculture is dumping its products in north africa with export subsidies because unemployment is rising there. migration complains about the flow of economic refugees from that region and then sends them back with aid money instead of working on good agreements on the regional labour market. only a european agenda for coherence by the commission and the council would substantially improve the situation. global trade is important and very useful in getting developing countries out of their vicious circle of poverty. that process should not stand in the way of their development and therefore there is much to be gained from the right combination of aid and trade. this is the way to achieve the millennium development goals. i call for the european agenda of coherence. let the new development cooperation instrument provide the new framework for this.
mr president, i would like to raise a point of order. there is a very ugly racist action going on right now by e-mail against lívia járóka, a colleague of ours who is very much involved in roma rights and who has been nominated for the mep award. there's also some women-friendly language. i think that this is totally out of the scope of the european parliament. i would like to see this noted, because this cannot be done. (applause from the left)
in writing. the vvd group voted in favour of the guerreiro report because we, the vvd, are in favour of improving the economic situation in the fisheries sector. we realise that a large part of the fisheries sector has been affected by economic uncertainty in recent years, particularly as a result of the increase in fuel prices. but we are also in favour of a sustainable fisheries sector. we are therefore against renewal and modernisation of the fishing fleet if it is not sustainable innovation. we are also against compensation because you are artificially maintaining the fishing industry in this way.
president. - the importance of the political, economic and cultural dialogue between europe and asia cannot be underestimated, and i am still surprised that the two major groups in this house have decided not to draw up a resolution on the occasion of the asem summit in helsinki on 10 and 11 september. what the socialist group has just put forward is actually very sensible language and it is a pity that we have not been able to express that in a resolution. economic cooperation is of course at the forefront of this dialogue and i am a strong supporter of further strengthening the strongly growing economic ties, both in trade and investment, between the european union and asia. there is a huge economic potential in asia. south korea, for example, has made impressive progress. fifty years ago it was a developing country, but today 97 percent of 25- to 34-year-olds have completed at least a secondary education, the highest percentage in the industrialized world. that investment in education is being amply repaid by a growing and thriving economy. our economic thematic programmes must be extended: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. i am also pleased that the commission is now seriously considering concluding bilateral trade agreements with asian countries, at least with singapore, perhaps also thailand. of course, you can also think of countries like malaysia and indonesia in the absence of a global trade agreement. i think that's a good way forward. but when you talk about asia, of course, you can't just look at the economy. there are other matters and it is inconceivable to me that this parliament would not take a position on the recent coup d'état in thailand. the so-called military council for democratic reform overthrew the democratically elected government on 19 september. a government we may have great doubts about, but if you want to get rid of such a government, a military coup is obviously not the answer. thailand, a country that was really on its way to being a stable democracy and an example in the world and especially in asia, has taken a step backwards. the parliament and court buildings are closed, foreign television channels are no longer allowed to broadcast, and local channels are broadcasting patriotic songs under military control. even weblogs of people in thailand are blocked and subject to censorship. clearly, great concern is warranted. the european union must also put democratic values first in this kind of contact. i therefore also think that the way we are dealing with taiwan is very wrong. finally, human rights must also be part of this dialogue. there are indeed disturbing developments in the philippines and myanmar, and i am glad that they have been raised. i would like to congratulate the commission and, in this case, the council, on the success of this asem summit. in the past we have been very critical, particularly of the council's attitude and its absence from this summit. this time it was much better and i hope it will continue to be that way. i wish the commission every success in its efforts to do so.
president, commissioner, thank you for your efforts to get this slow ship moving again. patents, we have been talking about them for over 30 years and it is particularly strange that so many colleagues are critical of your ideas, when almost all the member states of the european union have also signed the munich convention. so we are saying implicitly that we have no confidence in our member states. i think that is a very strange impasse in itself and i also think it is strange that a community patent is still unchallengeable in the council. at the moment the eu does not have democratic control over the european patent office, and that is of course very unfortunate. it would be good - and we agree with your proposals - if the eu participated as a political and economic organisation, as it did at the hague conference, so that we as the eu could have an influence on what happens. it is not just intergovernmental, no, it is community. we would like to see the eu participate in the same way in the munich convention so that the commission and perhaps parliament too have permanent democratic control over what happens there. we have therefore tabled a resolution with the epp and the liberals - and i hope the socialist group will support this - to support you, to examine where the possibilities lie. we think that is the only solution because it has been stuck in the council for so long. and then we are not talking about the language regime, we are not talking about the cost, we are absolutely not wanting to abolish the national courts. but eventually there must be a special chamber at the european court of justice with specialised judges who can decide how patents should be treated at european level in the event of legal proceedings. we also do not want to open up the pandora's box again with regard to computer-implemented inventions, as mr rocard has said. i agree with him, if we did it would be very annoying. on the other hand, we see that errors may still be made within the epo. we cannot correct it, and for that reason alone it is important that we follow it. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. "stop saying those nice things about lisbon, we're going to do something". and i hope you will do so, because you were the commissioner who said that.
the destabilising effects of pyongyang's nuclear test last monday are evident. first in the northeast asian region, but equally global. two nuclear crises are now brewing: the acute north korean to the urgent iranian. will both be manageable without military means? the attitude of two members of the un security council is particularly crucial to this: china and russia. what is the non-proliferation treaty worth to beijing and moscow? their performance in the security council will show that. i expect the member states of the european union with seats in this highest un body to emphasize the crucial responsibility of china and russia in this regard. in the meantime, the international community must begin to monitor pyongyang's commercial activities closely, especially its sea lanes. the north korean regime announced last week that it would supply nuclear technology, equipment and weapons to other countries at will. such open provocation calls for a determined response from the international community. the european union's member states also have a duty to: the european union is also committed to the development of a strong sanctions policy against the north korean leadership, which will spare as much as possible the suffering and brainwashing of the civilian population. the council and the commission can imagine the great anxiety in israel over the north korean nuclear test. yet a huge encouragement for the islamic republic of iran to follow the nuclear path of pyongyang, perhaps with actual technical and material assistance from kim jong-il's reign of terror. the council and the commission, you say you are committed to israel's political survival; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, i have the feeling that i have ended up in the wrong theatre play and i have the wrong script in front of me. the president-in-office and the commissioner were talking about the agreement and you completely ignored the side letter from the department of homeland security, which gives an interpretation of the agreement that goes in a completely different direction from what you have just said. so i am afraid that i am unable to share the joy just expressed by the presidency and the commission. i sent a letter – to which the president-in-office just referred – with a number of questions. i would very much like to get an answer to those questions, preferably during this sitting, or otherwise in writing. for example, you said that there is no change in the number and the nature of the data and there is no change in the level of protection, but how do you then explain the part in the side letter from the americans that says that, in addition to the purpose of fighting terrorism and related crimes, we will also collect the data to fight infectious disease and other risks? i call that a considerable widening of the scope. the sharing of data has been widened to include agencies which have not all been specified. the americans now say that they may not apply the agreed data-retention periods even to the data collected under the old agreement. you said that we have agreed to move to a ‘push system’: i am sorry, but that is not what i read. i read that the americans will move to the ‘push system’ as soon as it is technically feasible. well, congratulations! that was also part of the old agreement. it has been technically feasible for more than a year and the americans have simply refused to do it. so how can you present it this way in a press conference? i would also like to get an answer on the impact on other categories – the precedent that this agreement sets – for example, the bank account details as in the case of swift, and the telecoms records, to which the americans also have access. could somebody please reply to that? i think we should look to the future, because unfortunately we need this agreement. the only other option would have been no agreement, in which case the member states would not have stood together in solidarity and would have moved ahead and concluded bilateral agreements with the americans. i think that for the future we need a strong and clear mandate. such a strong mandate requires the approval of the european parliament for reasons of democratic legitimacy. that is the only basis on which a new agreement can be concluded. therefore, i hope that the bridging clause will be adopted as soon as possible. i know that you are our ally at least on that one. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. southern europe considers the measures insufficient to protect their footwear sector from unfair competition. the eu is growing more divided and mistrustful. dumping is different from fair competition or lower costs. dumping is unfair competition, whether because the dumping companies receive state aid or because they use child labour to reduce their wage costs. if it is a question of dumping, we must close ranks. we cannot simply wipe out unfair competition if the benefits to the whole community seem a little bit bigger for once. unfortunately, my dutch government also uses this argument against the adoption of anti-dumping measures. what a randomness! but who are the benefits for? not for the european consumer. last year, import prices of shoes from outside the eu fell by 25%, while consumer prices remained stable. does the commissioner agree with me that we must work towards a new anti-dumping policy which excludes arbitrariness and brings unity to the eu? we must protect ourselves against unfair competition. we must not only protect our producers, but also our consumers. they don't want to buy products made by children, do they? clean clothes, clean shoes, clean hands.
president, the accession of newcomers to the european union is best achieved when democracy, human rights, environmental protection and prosperity are at about the same level as in the other member states. the european agency for reconstruction can help to overcome some of the differences that are still delaying the arrival of seven states in the western balkans. in recent years, there has been disagreement about the emphasis that this agency should place on education and infrastructure, which are in great need in those countries, or on reforms. the reforms in the areas of administration, justice, police and the market are mainly desired from outside. on the other hand, budgetary support from within is expected for small projects which can be carried out independently without much bureaucracy, supervision and control, and for the repair of railways, bridges, dams and drinking water basins damaged by war or neglect. the transfer of the tasks of this office to commission delegations and offices in 2009 is a radical move. i ask the commission whether it is only helping to simplify the intervention of the european union itself or also to make it easier to accommodate local needs.
i would like to draw your attention, mr president, to the tragedy of the probo koala poisoning that took place in côte d'ivoire a few weeks ago, the consequences of which are still unknown. the ship has or will shortly be allowed to leave estonia. much uncertainty remains as to what will happen to the poison and the infected crew members. my observer, who went to estonia for me, can agree with commissioner dimas that this is just the tip of the iceberg. such poison should never have left the eu. european and international regulations have been violated. after being repeatedly denied permission to speak to the crew of the probo koala despite having been given permission to do so before, i can only say that a very dark game is being played with human lives by various officials. the game's not over yet. the probo emoe is already appearing on the horizon.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report. what i regret very much, however, is that such a thing is necessary. the way humans treat animals often reveals the true nature of man. that image of people still doesn't always look as beautiful. too often animals are treated as commodities and economic gain is put before animal welfare. i think that this report can at least put an end to some of the terrible things that animals have to endure. the report contains a cause for which i have been campaigning for a long time, namely to put an end at european level to the unstopped castration of pigs, an act which is not welcomed by pigs or farmers. the fact that more active support is being called for for research to replace animal testing with alternative testing methods is a very encouraging thing for a large group of animals. of course, i myself have many more far-reaching ideas on animal protection, such as much more free movement of cattle, the prevention of bullfighting, the stopping of stuffing geese with food for a large liver, the banning of leaf batteries and much shorter transport times for animals, and i can go on and on. it is very regrettable that a number of good amendments tabled by the envi committee have been voted down in the agri committee. i would like to point out that animal welfare is certainly not only related to farm animals, but also pets and wild animals should be covered by the action plan. i call on everyone to speak their human heart to our fellow men tomorrow and to give full support to further amendments for the welfare of animals. let us show that we are not animals in the ep and vote in favour of animals.
before i respond, mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur very much for her excellent report and the good balance it strikes between what is possible and what is not possible and what we want for animal welfare in europe. i would also like to reply to my colleague mr titford, who said that the european bureaucracy had slaughtered 7 million animals in britain during the sme crisis. i have to wake him up from his dream . europe was forced to adapt its legislation when britain joined the european union. we were not allowed to vaccinate preventively. we were not allowed to vaccinate for ms. we owe that to the british government at the time and do not let me now say that europe is the cause of the slaughter of 7 million cows in britain. it has everything to do with the british position at the time. i'd like to get that out of my head. i say this because my colleague mr jeggle's report makes it very clear that vaccination must once again be a real means of improving animal welfare in the european union. when we look at all the outbreaks of infectious animal diseases, it is good that we take another step forward and at least use those scientific techniques to fight animal diseases. that is the best form of animal welfare in europe. the second point i would like to make in the report concerns the transport of animals. we have said in this parliament: limit the transport time for animals intended for slaughter. unfortunately, the council has not adopted this position, but parliament's position is clear. i would therefore urge mr titford, if he really wants to protect animal welfare in his own country, to vote in favour of the jeggle report. that is essential, then you are really doing something for the people of britain and also for the people of europe. the third point on which i am pleased with this report is that it specifically calls for attention to be paid to imports of products from outside the european union. because we may have wonderful rules, but if we can't control anything at the external border, then those will remain paper rules; it is essential that the european parliament, with the jeggle report, put this back on the agenda.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we also learn from experience. in the netherlands, for example, the fixed fees for notarial services have been abolished, but many other rules remain in force. these rules are necessary to ensure quality. i was approached very recently by an orthopaedic educator who wanted to establish himself freely without the usual registration of the ministry of health. the government rightly imposed additional training requirements for enrolment and reimbursement. this is of course very important for services in the field of public health. the registration requirements for various occupational groups continue to be a barrier to freedom of establishment. that is to a large extent justified. the guarantee of professional services cannot be guaranteed when freedom of establishment is unrestricted. the rapporteur's amendment to incorporate this nuance into the report is therefore necessary.
the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the convention. the assembly of the council of europe also has serious reservations. the president of that parliamentary assembly called for a review of the proposal last week. there are two main arguments against the creation of a fundamental rights office. unfortunately, the compromise reached by mr gál does not sufficiently refute these arguments. that is why i am tabled an amendment to reject the proposal which is being put to the vote today. the proposed office will unnecessarily duplicate the work of the council of europe, the court of human rights and the osce. it also makes an unwanted distinction between the 25 eu member states and the other 21 european countries. secondly, the fundamental rights office is hindering a good relationship with the countries around us on this issue. the dialogue and the continuing dialogue between the european union and third countries take place in the context of international relations. in these relations there are more points of discussion than just criticism of fundamental rights. very recently the dutch senate unanimously prohibited the government from voting in favour of this proposal. a dutch veto can only be avoided if the criticisms mentioned are taken into account. so it is obvious that the vote will be postponed.
mr president, human rights are a worldwide issue. despite our huge deficits, we are ahead of europe. the council of europe has reached agreement on the minimum level of human rights to be guaranteed in europe. the european convention on human rights binds 47 member states, 20 more than the 27 that will be part of the european union from 2007. the 2000 charter of fundamental rights is the main common denominator of existing provisions from national constitutions and that european treaty. this charter was later incorporated as chapter ii in the draft constitution. the european union is not a party to the convention on human rights, but it is a party to the convention on the rights of the child. it would be nice if the proposed human rights office could serve as a signal that the european union gives more importance to human rights than to the common market. some in my group see this proposal as a very different signal, namely the attempt to compete with the council of europe and to promote the constitutional text rejected in two referendums. we do not agree with that.
i have seen on the agenda that there would be an oral question on gambling policy and infringement procedures. the question was removed from the agenda of the conference of presidents on thursday for obscure reasons, for reasons which were precisely contained in the compromise and which required us to remove the reference to infringement procedures. but now the question is off. i would suggest that the conference of presidents be made public in the future so that we can know the reasons and arguments exchanged there; we also demand that the council's meetings be open to the public. i therefore hope that the meetings of the conference of presidents will be open to the public in future, so that there is no shakiness as is happening now.
the european union is today busy strengthening the surveillance of the external borders, and that is important, but we also have our internal borders and incidents involving the crossing of suspects raise questions about the control of those internal borders. i think schengen is a romantic concept. in the european union, not only innocent citizens benefit from the free movement of persons, but also 27-year-old hussein osman, one of the suspects in the london attacks, was able to travel unhindered by train to rome, and that cannot be the purpose of schengen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. a well-functioning information system such as sis ii can help in this. back to the pre-schengen days is not an option. the free movement of persons is an inherent feature of the european union and a prerequisite for its proper functioning.
mr president, let me take this opportunity to thank mr coelho for his outstanding performance on this file. it is, after all, thanks to him and his negotiating skills that the decision-making procedure on this important and complex package of legislation has been finished in time. mr coelho was confronted with some tough choices during this process. producing law at record speed is efficient, but it cannot be denied that this efficiency comes at the expense of transparency. my group is worried about the lack of data protection concerning the second generation of the schengen information system. the council finally agreed to refer to the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar. a referral like that is the least we can do to protect our citizens’ rights and we are not there yet – far from it. the council initially refused the referral because the decision had not yet been taken. that is true, but why? is it not the council that is putting the brakes on this issue? and is it not the council that is aiming to water down the decision, almost to the point that there is hardly anything left to protect? i cannot help but mention here the german government’s offer to make data protection in the third pillar a priority during its presidency, provided we agree to make some fundamental changes at the last minute in situ. well, that leaves a bitter taste indeed, after the british government promised to deliver if parliament agreed with data retention and did not; after both the austrian and finnish presidencies did not seem too keen on pushing the issue forward, but are nevertheless watering down the proposal. yes, german government, you will have to make this one of your priorities, but not in exchange for a favour. you will have to do it because citizens deserve it and they deserve it now. the lack of data protection makes it all the more worrisome that the parliament is asked to give up its decision-making rights concerning biometrics. again, this is all in the spirit of efficiency, but at the expense of transparency, and therefore democracy. so why am i proposing to vote in favour, in spite of all this criticism? for many reasons. i will mention just a few. the citizens of europe do not appear to be particularly worried about co- or framework decisions; they are, however, worried about the increasing number of stolen cars finding their way to eastern european member states and would like us to take the necessary steps to fight that growing area of crime. in an area without internal borders, we also need to have a joint approach to illegal immigration. no matter how difficult this issue is for many of us, we need a common tool to deal with the presence of illegal immigrants. also, the schengen information system will add more meaning and substance to the european arrest warrant and strengthen the role of europol and eurojust with the increasing cooperation of our police and security forces.
mr president, after months of heavy negotiating, two and a half minutes is simply not enough time in which to enlighten this parliament with my vision. i am going to finish my speech if that is ok with you. it is now up to the european commission and the relevant organisations within the member states to make this new system perform in the best interest of our citizens. i want to call on the european parliament here, however, to do some serious soul-searching about why we so often insist on having codecision, only to give it up again as soon as we can actually use it, and about our flip-flopping attitude concerning data protection. we will not prove the added value of the european parliament to citizens by fighting for rights alone. we will prove that only by using them to society’s benefit.
president. - as a group, immigrant women are not a problem but an opportunity, a group that is vulnerable, that is true. vulnerable because they may be discriminated against not only as women but also as muslims, somalis or moroccans. vulnerable also to domestic violence, vulnerable because they may not speak the local language, or financially dependent on a husband or father. so we need to support them by not letting domestic violence and honor killings go unpunished, but strict legislation alone isn't going to get you there. it is not enough for women to have rights on paper, they must also be able to claim them in practice, because a woman who is dependent on the perpetrator of domestic violence will not have much of the rights she has on paper in practice. we must therefore promote the financial independence of migrant women by combating discrimination in the labour market, for example. more participation of migrant women in the labour market is good for the economy. another opportunity that we should not miss is the positive impact that migrant women can have on the integration of their children into the new society. as a host community, we must therefore be open to supporting and connecting with migrant women. they are also part of it and i am glad that mrs kratsa has taken these points into account in her report and i would like to thank her for her good report.
president. - mr president, we are today commemorating in the european parliament a dramatic political event that took place in hungary 50 years ago. the uprising that erupted then and was brutally crushed by soviet troops a few days later has opened the eyes of many in western europe to the dangers of communist ideology as dictated by moscow. the historical significance of budapest 1956 thus goes far beyond the local or national level. as a 13-year-old schoolboy, i only realized that my mother's beloved homeland was fighting a heroic battle for the freedom so passionately desired. the images of prime minister imre nagy and general pál maléter and the fight against the russian tanks are etched on my retina. what we were hoping for in the west was support against all odds. what we lived with the victims and with the refugees. my parents taught me then that hungary was not an eastern european country but a central european country with strong religious and cultural ties to western europe. fifty years later, the soviet bloc has been dismantled and eight, and soon 10, of its former satellite states have joined the european union. what did we do with that freedom we had? national socialist ideology was defeated in 1945 and communist ideology 45 years later. but did anything good come of it? can we build on the ruins of these ideologies a society of tolerance, responsibility and love of neighbor? patience and perseverance are needed. 5 years of occupation in the netherlands required at least 15 years of reconstruction. a period of 50 years of oppression may take several generations to heal all the wounds inflicted. may the hungarian people have the courage and strength to overcome the past together and work together for a future of peace and freedom.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, it has already been said: breast cancer is a major and growing health problem. after lung cancer, breast cancer is the most common cancer. in lung cancer, some of the causes are known. smoking and asbestos are major causes, and air pollution is a risk factor. there is something you can do to prevent lung cancer. quitting smoking, for example. breast cancer is actually a little known disease, but there are statistics. the netherlands has the highest relative incidence of breast cancer. there are also statistical links, and i thank the commissioner for the comprehensive and concise answer to my written question. commissioner, you're arguing that there's a link between obesity and breast cancer. there's a link between having children late in life and breast cancer. there is a socioeconomic factor: low-income groups are less likely to participate in screening and therefore are at greater risk of mortality. and finally, and perhaps most importantly, hormones, particularly estrogen, are considered by the commission to be a determinant of breast cancer risk. it could be estrogens from different sources. chemical pollution, i.e. exposure to environmental factors, but also drug or pill use. commissioner, this is important information. in all my contacts with women's groups, these two factors come up again and again. many breast cancer patients themselves suspect that their disease is related to the environment, to medication, or to the use of the pill. can you therefore give us an incentive to continue the investigation as a matter of urgency? there is a need for more clarity on the effects of endocrine disruptors in the environment and on the use of hormones as medicines or contraceptives. colleagues, i would like to thank karin jöns in particular for her continued commitment and dedication to women with breast cancer. her work is truly an inspiration to many women. i also want to express my appreciation for europa donna. i would like to thank europa donna for the excellent work they are doing and because of europa donna european countries can learn from each other; that's exactly what we should do!
mr president, roaming charges, particularly in border areas, amount to some eur 5 billion a year. this is unacceptable and unnecessary for businesses and citizens. i thank mrs reding for her very strong intervention in recent months and today, but a voluntary solution between companies in the border regions of that roaming, of which you are barely aware, where you are pushed from one network to another several times a day, that is a great problem; i think that the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would ask the commissioner, the commission, if she would report on this progress. i know that the organization of the border regions would like to be involved in this, and i think we should intensify our efforts.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr takkula, for his excellent report and for the excellent cooperation. how good it is that this program is coming! good for the citizens, good for us in parliament and good for the european union as a whole. the europe of the citizens programme is finally showing that citizens should not be for europe, but the other way round. europe is for the people. only if the european union achieves concrete results for its citizens can we count on support for that european union. of course, we can try to engage our citizens in the eu through exchange programmes and events, but it always works better if the citizens themselves take the initiative. it's possible under this program. i thank mr takkula, colleagues from all parties and the commission and the council for the good cooperation on this matter. there's one thing i'd like to say. the european union has recognised that there is a gap between citizens and institutions. this programme recognises that and is trying to change that in a positive way. but why have we cut back on this programme and other such important programmes? of course, talking about citizen involvement without having money for it does not work. i will, however, be working to bring this programme to the attention of the people of the netherlands. i hope that the members will also draw attention to this programme in their countries. let us all make it so successful that the council and the commission will have no choice but to increase the budget of the europe for citizens programme to an acceptable level next time. i have no doubt that the europe for citizens programme can be a success. there are countless people in europe who want to play an active part in the integration of europe. this program gives them the opportunity to participate in the process and organize things themselves. it is of the utmost importance that european citizens feel that they are involved in the development of the eu. this program gives them that chance. i therefore appeal to the citizens of europe: get him!
mr president, let me first of all, as chairman of this parliament’s russia delegation, express my appreciation of the fact that the finnish presidency devoted so much attention to our partnership with russia. this partnership could be in both our interests. as the prime minister stated, we could be mutually supportive in achieving good diplomacy in the middle east. if we shared principles of democracy, that would be the best guarantee of stability in our bilateral relationship. furthermore, economically and in terms of energy, we both need each other. this partnership can only work if it is based on shared principles, balance and a basic trust. i want to make a few remarks on these matters following the informal summit. it must be made very clear that the boycott of georgia and the treatment of georgian people in russia are unacceptable. this forms part of a pattern of interference by russia that was also seen in belarus and ukraine. it must be clear that european principles mean that our common neighbours have their own sovereignty in deciding where their future lies. secondly, the killing of anna politkovskaya is the latest incident in a long line of at least 19 journalists who have disappeared or been killed since putin became president. i welcome the declaration by the duma and the remarks by putin, but the only thing that will really convince us is if the killers are tried and brought to justice. further, the duma and the president would be even more convincing if they agreed to measures to increase reduced press freedom. thirdly, the question of economic cooperation was raised, a subject often discussed. here, there must be reciprocity. we cannot have a situation where russia wants to invest in our gas and oil infrastructure and even wants to buy a minority stake in airbus, but where at the same time our companies like shell and mobil are kicked out of the energy fields in russia. i say this because i think that europe needs to unite on these principles. europe showed strength for the first time in finland. putin was put on the defensive because of a united europe. let this be an encouragement to unite much more in the future, because this is the only way in which this partnership will be a balanced one that is in the interests of both partners. in conclusion, if we think, like mr schulz, that innovation is not going far enough, then we should support the president of the commission, because he is trying, and we should put pressure on our national leadership to support the commission in achieving real results. lastly, i compliment mr blair and mr balkenende for their initiative on climate change. it deserves our full support. (applause)
in writing. the basques are in an exceptional position compared to most other european peoples. at the beginning of the 19th century, europe was divided between a small number of large multinational states. the congress of vienna in 1815 thought it could fix that state structure and its boundaries forever. since 1830, two thirds of the present european states have arisen violently or peacefully, as a result of the democratic struggle for governance and education in their own language. of the remaining multilingual states, spain and belgium have adopted a federal form of government that recognises linguistic and cultural diversity. unfortunately, within spain, the basque country is still divided between the three main basque provinces, which together form a region, and the navarra region, of which only the western half has a basque majority. the basque people's wishes are similar to those of catalonia, which have now been largely granted. the answer to their demands must not be military and judicial repression, as applied by previous spanish governments and now advocated by the present right-wing opposition. we welcome the fact that the independence movement and the spanish state are at last working together to find a peaceful solution, and that most of the groups in this parliament support this.
president. - we are faced with a number of latent, frozen conflicts in the common neighbourhood that the european union shares with russia. unfortunately, we must note that after years of conflict, the solution to these frozen conflicts has not come any closer, despite the european union's good efforts to find a negotiated political solution in a multilateral framework. we are very concerned about recent developments in this region, which point to a possible escalation. on 17 september, a referendum on secession from moldova was held in transnistria, while tensions between georgia and russia over the status of south ossetia have escalated into a full-blown diplomatic crisis over the past week. both events are in direct contradiction to the efforts to find a political solution to these conflicts within the framework of the osce. i believe that the eu should stick to a negotiating approach in a multilateral framework, with the territorial integrity of moldova and georgia as the starting point. we are firmly opposed to unilateral measures such as the holding of a referendum or so-called referendum, since there was no question of a democratic referendum in a free and open environment. threatening political rhetoric over and over and unilaterally announcing sanctions are equally counterproductive. they do not bring a solution any closer and go directly against the efforts of the international community to bring the parties involved together. it must be clear to all the players that a lasting solution can only be based on political dialogue, with respect for democracy in the countries and regions concerned. the european union needs to make a major investment in this process. the european union cannot resolve these conflicts on its own. as long as we are committed to a multilateral strategy, we can reasonably ask the other parties involved to act within it and to respect previous agreements, for example in istanbul in 1999. we can also expect a certain degree of caution from russia, which plays a crucial role in each of these conflicts. the active support given by russia to the regime in transnistria and the referenda, as well as support for the separatist movement in south ossetia and abkhazia, unfortunately does not fall into this category.
the socialist group wholeheartedly supports the previous two speakers. how is it possible that a major polluter like proba koala hasn't been stopped? all the red lights should have been on in this incident, but the dutch government, as the ultimate responsible party, washes its hands of legal innocence. it refuses to openly admit its mistakes, it is unwilling to set up a fund for victims in côte d'ivoire, it shifts the burden of responsibility and refuses to take moral and financial responsibility. that is the sad behaviour of the dutch government. i therefore ask the commission whether it is prepared to put pressure on the netherlands to provide legal aid to côte d'ivoire and also to ensure that an emergency fund is set up in consultation with the un for the victims of this disaster. my african parliamentary colleagues feel that the netherlands and europe have not been able to protect them from this criminal behaviour despite the basic convention. apparently, africa is being used as a dumping ground. this creates a feeling of inferiority which undermines a credible partnership between africa and europe. the damage to our relationships is immense. what steps are the finnish presidency and the commission going to take towards the ivory coast and the african union? is the commission prepared to put forward proposals for measures to eliminate this dumping if possible and to apply them where laws apply? is the commission prepared to draw up an annual blacklist of countries and transnational companies involved in the illegal dumping of chemical waste in developing countries? are the commission and the council prepared to make legislative proposals to close the loopholes in the basic convention, including the obligation for ships leaving the eu to hand over the runoff water to the responsible authorities in the last eu port they call at? finally, is the commission prepared to take the necessary steps to assist developing countries in identifying hazardous substances and to ensure safe treatment of waste water produced at sea? i hope that the council will once again take its responsibilities seriously. the council has rightly been called upon to take responsibility for this by the chairman of the committee on the environment. enough of the talk, we want action, action and enforcement.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, i would like to say that my group wholeheartedly supports all that has been said so far and also the resolution which draws attention to the proba koala poisoning disaster in côte d'ivoire which has so far claimed the lives of a dozen people and resulted in tens of thousands of people being hospitalised. the environmental and health implications of this are not yet known. there is still much uncertainty as to what will happen to the poison and the infected crew members. this kind of outrageous practices, which are disrespectful to the environment and the public, and in which the public authorities and those responsible deliberately or unconsciously shirk their responsibilities, must be tackled at every possible level. and member states, in this case the netherlands, must be addressed in a very respectful manner. my observer, who went to estonia before me, can fully agree with mr dimas's words: "it's just the tip of the iceberg". this kind of poison should never have left the european union and has violated european and international regulations. after being repeatedly denied permission to speak to the crew of the proba koala despite prior authorization, i can only say that a very dark game is being played with human lives by various officials. public visibility is essential. hard-licking policy is necessary to prevent or discourage repetition. i am in favour of a blacklist of waste dumps and of publicising waste treatment agreements with developing countries.
on behalf of the ind/dem group mr president, i agree with all the previous speakers. what happened in the ivory coast with the waste from the ship proba koala is terrible and should never have happened. it is quite clear that this was an illegal waste shipment. the basel convention expressly prohibits the shipment of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries and this prohibition has not been upheld. it has long been known that the current legislation on shipments of waste is seriously flawed. samples taken in england and france show that between 75% and 100% of waste shipments are not compliant. for the european parliament, good enforcement and stricter controls were a sticking point in the negotiations during the creation of the new waste shipment regulation. and we've only partially gotten what we wanted. at the moment we do not need new rules or a european minimum penalty for infringement as commissioner dimas suggests. what we need first is enforcement of existing laws. it would be a great honour for the commission and the member states to finally put this to work.
president. - the export of waste to developing countries is prohibited. that's very clear. only normal ship waste and rinsing water are not covered by the ban. but it's also clear that the proba koala's rinsing water was not normal. the deaths, the thousands of wounded and the enormous upheaval in côte d'ivoire are proof of this. but earlier in amsterdam it had already been shown that the waste water was not normal. someone fainted and there was an unbearable and unusual smell. it is clear that the ship with this contents should never have left amsterdam without warning the authorities of the next european port, namely estonia. the netherlands is therefore rightly conducting a criminal investigation to ascertain how the poison ship was able to leave the netherlands and whether the port authorities and inspections made any mistakes. but we need to focus now on how to prevent these disasters in the future. commissioner, i have three questions in this connection. in estonia you said that dumping poison in the ivory coast was the tip of the iceberg. on what basis did you make this determination? secondly, do you agree that ships leaving the eu should be obliged to discharge their waste water and waste at the last eu port? finally, what measures can and will the commission take to strengthen controls on the export of hazardous waste?
mr president, what we are actually talking about today is an example of environmental crime which we are not sure will be prosecuted in the future. i would also like to say to my colleagues that i would not like to be a green left councillor when i am speaking about the proba koala case; so the question is whether or not you are being prosecuted, there is uncertainty whether you are being prosecuted as a member state. that is why we are saying that in order to ensure that environmental policy is properly enforced, we must also have legislation on criminal law. that is to say, we believe that condemnation should be given in any case, but that the member states themselves should decide how these sanctions are to be applied. president. - the next item is the report (doc. a bill was introduced six years ago. the council also adopted its own framework decision at that time. that framework decision was proposed for annulment by the european commission together with the european parliament. that was a year ago. the commissioner announced last monday that he was coming up with a new proposal. what i would like to know from the commissioner is what exactly that will look like, because that was a little vague last monday. i would also like to know from the council, mr president - i was a former rapporteur - whether the council is prepared to accept a new proposal to deal with environmental crime. that is the most important question on the table. there are plenty of examples, mr president, and it is indeed necessary.
president. - the disaster in côte d'ivoire calls for a rapid european response. the victims and the damage to the environment must be compensated, and the polluter must of course be held responsible for the costs incurred. if europe wants to move forward, it will have to make clear to its citizens where its added value lies. the incident in the ivory coast is a matter in which europe clearly has a responsibility. shipping is notoriously complex in terms of ownership and management and is almost by definition a cross-border business. in the course of two months, the ship proba koala called at the ports of gibraltar, algeciras, amsterdam, skaw, paldiski, dover and venkspits. the vessel is also flying the flag of panama, is owned by a greek company, is chartered by trafigura bv of the united kingdom and has a russian crew. trafigura bv has a post office box in the netherlands. this degree of complexity requires clarity and unambiguity in regulation. if the european union is to act effectively, it must meet these conditions quickly. only by acting decisively can europe demonstrate why further european integration is important to us all.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to adopt this report, and i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to adopt this report. anyone in this house recommending that the council conclude an association agreement with syria is supporting a ruthless minority regime which, quite eloquently, considers only the islamic republic of iran and hezbollah as strategic partners in the region. the present resolution once again ignores the true nature of the assad regime, everything, really everything is about maintaining power. the rapporteur is thus indulging in illusions about the possible positive effects of the association agreement on the internal and external policies of damascus. mr de keyser, if i may have your attention, i would like to remind you of the opinion of a recognized expert on syria from my country, who has been travelling to syria for many years; he said to me these days, literally: "democracy - as i have learned in recent years from conversations with sources within the regime, including mr dardari, who is so liberal - is seen by those in power as a mortal threat". the irony of this report is that it is full of warnings against following the diplomatic detour towards damascus. this is food, madam president, for satirists rather than politicians.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs de keyser, for her work and i would like to express my concern. because let us be honest, we can hardly imagine the european union, as a union of values and standards, concluding a cooperation agreement with a rogue state like syria. because that's the reality when i look at the ties with hezbollah and the ties with iran. the only possibility is to use a cooperation agreement, the negotiations on it, to set minimum conditions in the field of human rights, because there is an increasing repression against trade unions, journalists and religious minorities in europe. in particular, syrian citizens belonging to religious minorities as well as assyrian christians returning to syria are imprisoned almost without exception. so there is every reason to finally harmonize the immigration policy in the european union and the return policy towards syria at european level and to temporarily stop the return policy towards syria. that sounds like a first step. a second step is: call for strong guarantees of religious freedom; the syrian government should stay away from religious minorities in syria itself. the various religious and ethnic groups in particular are currently facing particular problems with the way in which their interests are being managed in syria. europe has a name to lose in this respect, because the european churches are based on the earliest churches which spread their faith from syria also towards europe. and that means that the european union has a very heavy mortgage to ensure that, if there is a cooperation agreement, at least a firm guarantee of improvement is required on those points.
member of the commission. mr president, the twelfth conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change in nairobi is the first such conference to be held in sub-saharan africa, the poorest region of the world with which the european union has special political relations. it is therefore natural that the conference should focus on the needs of developing countries. the european union will emphasise that the fight against climate change can be combined with rapid economic growth. the commission also stressed the need to integrate emission reduction policies into decision-making processes in key sectors. the development of the economies of asian, african and south american countries, security of energy supply and improvements in air quality are, for example, important parallel benefits of action to combat climate change. i believe that better international understanding of the dangerous effects of climate change, and a greater interest in addressing the needs of developing countries, will increase the chances of reaching an agreement for the period after 2012. the european union has four specific priorities in nairobi. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fund will be financed by contributions from the clean growth mechanism and is estimated to yield more than eur 350 million over the period 2008-2012. secondly, to reach agreement on the list of activities under the five-year work programme on adaptation. the programme contains a number of activities aimed at improving our resilience, such as further improving our knowledge of the negative consequences of climate change, its socio-economic impacts and the vulnerabilities of our economies and societies to climate change. thirdly, to facilitate greater access to the clean development mechanism by the poor countries of africa and other parts of the world. we must address the issue of fair distribution of the clean development mechanism projects, because only a small percentage of all projects are allocated to africa. fourthly, the debate on the period after 2012, which will continue, but will not end in nairobi. i do believe that we have a lot of work to do. there are many opinions on what should be done. developing countries are not comfortable with the prospect of having to step up their efforts to combat climate change. at the same time, many developed countries are still reluctant to take the necessary action to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions needed to help limit the average global temperature increase by 2 degrees celsius. in nairobi, the european union will continue to make a strong case that the fight against climate change and the millennium development goals are not only compatible but also interdependent. in nairobi we want to ensure, on the one hand, a clear, concrete and balanced approach and steady progress in the ad hoc working group on article 3 (9) in the dialogue taking place within the convention. the second is to reach agreement on how to revise the kyoto protocol, on the basis of article 9. but we must look beyond nairobi, as europe needs to step up its efforts to convince its partners around the world to continue their efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions beyond 2012. it is very positive, ladies and gentlemen, that 10 members of parliament are part of the community delegation and i personally look forward - as has been the case over the last two years - to working closely with them. i will see that they are fully informed and that all available information is forwarded to them immediately. we will be addressing the media together and i hope that the members of parliament will have contact and dialogue with representatives of other countries during the conference. in this way we will be able to convey to a global audience our ambition and our shared vision for a sustainable future for humanity.
president. - mr president, i have been following the debate on the report by mr al gore for some time. the climate is changing fast, faster than expected. ice sheets are disappearing, sea levels are rising, and the point of no return will soon be reached. then you expect a response from politicians. not just mourning al gore, but the beginning of a solution. nairobi is an opportunity to take up that challenge with strength. when we talk about the energy crisis and the climate problem, we must not be held hostage to pessimism. because solutions are possible. where can we find these solutions? first of all, in confidence in our own measures. i would like to reiterate my support for the emissions trading system. it's not perfect. and i am now looking particularly at the commission, which should ensure that the national allocation plans are credible and that over-allocation is a thing of the past. in the slightly longer term, we should think about auctioning emissions allowances. we are therefore avoiding windfall profits for the electricity companies and the all too generous allocation of free emission allowances. secondly, i am in favour of large-scale investment in the development of a new clean energy source. there are many innovative opportunities in addition to the existing initiatives. blue energy from the mix of salt and fresh water can provide energy. the ladder windmills with high-altitude kites that work like a windmill and generate energy. energy-producing greenhouses and houses, geothermal, solar mirrors, there's a lot of potential. we must seize these opportunities through technological innovation. money must come from governments, but eventually also from the auctioning of emission allowances. thirdly, we must take forward cooperation with countries like china. every month, a new power plant opens in china. china needs clean coal technology, and we have to provide it. technology transfer can persuade china to commit after 2012. and if china joins, the united states' participation will also be closer. fourthly, we must invest generously in the adjustment fund. europe has a historic responsibility for climate change and it is our task to help developing countries adapt to its effects. climate change is not always a popular topic in developing countries. a leader of a developing country - mr president, i had been given an extra minute because anne ferreira has generously given me her speaking time, so i have three minutes - once said to a dutch minister for the environment: first we're going to be as rich as you, and then we're going to worry about climate change as much as you. i think there's another way. getting rich without carbon emissions. europe has a duty to contribute to this and we must show in nairobi that we mean it. commissioner, i look forward to a very good cooperation at the nairobi conference. i am of course in full support of the call made by avril doyle. i think we should be involved in all the negotiations as much as possible and have as much access to the meetings as possible and i know that you will do your utmost to ensure that. once again, i hope we can work together.
the commission is therefore proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. each year the average temperature increases; this year, unfortunately, is no exception. last week, prime ministers jan peter balkenende and tony blair therefore wrote a letter to the president of the council asking for concrete action. and i quote from their letter: "we have only ten to fifteen years to take the steps necessary to avoid passing catastrophic tipping points". i would like to know what steps we can expect very soon. we're running out of time. i would also like to thank the commissioner for the action plan on energy efficiency published last week, but i would also like to point out that the 20% target is firstly too low and secondly will never be reached unless binding reduction targets are set for the member states. president, as my colleagues avril doyle and dorette corbey have already said, the european parliament delegation to the climate conference wants the commitment that we will now finally be allowed to attend all the meetings attended by the european union delegation. commissioner dimas knows this and we are counting on his support to achieve this. we are an official eu institution and therefore have the same right to attend as the other institutions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the safety of inland waterway vessels. parliament is your ally, because inland navigation must be given a prominent place on the european agenda. our report was unanimously supported by the committee on transport and i would like to thank my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs and the staff for their efforts. vice-president, parliament supports the objectives you have proposed, but we do believe that more ambition is needed to achieve those objectives. in the report parliament stresses above all the importance of reliable inland navigation. that is the key to the success and expansion of inland navigation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's inland waterway infrastructure is not undermined by the current economic crisis. the new member states with their specific problems also require special attention. the main responsibility lies, of course, with the national and regional authorities, because they do not give enough priority. but parliament also calls for more financial support for the tens. firstly, as regards the priority projects. and we are still waiting for the appointment of a ten coordinator. can you promise me you'll come up with a proposal soon? parliament also called for greater priority and a 20% financing rate for all waterway projects of common interest. this will enable a large number of small infrastructure projects to be supported. because so far the money has gone mainly to rail and road and that has to change if we are to take the naiades programme seriously. river information services projects should also be eligible for a contribution from the multiannual programme. parliament will vote in favour of this tomorrow. the finnish presidency has also proposed this in the council. so if you can support that, that's fine. parliament is also ambitious in the field of the environment. we hope that the commission will come forward with regulations for cleaner fuel as soon as possible. we received additional information from your department last friday, for which we thank you. it is clear that a great deal of research has been done, including on technical and economic implications. the results seem promising and i would therefore ask you to come forward with a firm proposal for the revision of the directive. the prospect of inland waterway transport becoming as clean as road transport must be considered. the sector itself is also in favour of this. i read in the newspaper that the industry thinks it can achieve more through the ccr, because the european commission does not want to make enough progress. i hope you can reassure me. there has been a lot of talk about the innovation fund, which i think is a wonderful instrument to give this fine action programme a boost. the sector itself has good ideas and 40 million euros are on the table in brussels. parliament also called on the commission and the council to show commitment and to come up with the same amount, so that 120 million euro could be made available. unfortunately, the council has not yet been very specific on this point, but do you see any chance of convincing him? and, more importantly, are you prepared to make that 40 million available over the next few years? i regard this as a test case of whether you really want to implement the action programme. the action programme contains several other points which we wholeheartedly support: a financing manual, state aid guidelines and the announced screening of existing regulations. this is very much needed to reduce administrative burdens. i would like to draw particular attention to problematic environmental legislation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. my report will give you a clear direction on this point. we must work together, taking into account the existing competences of all the parties involved and drawing on the expertise of international organisations. competition will only slow things down. we must start implementing the action programme as soon as possible. in conclusion: the commission will also have to show real commitment when it comes to action. the commission can also demonstrate by its actions that it has really taken the inland waterway sector to heart, and only then will the time be ripe to look at institutional relations if necessary - and i am not yet convinced of this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now every political movement is cheering the return of freight transport by water. this consensus is based on different visions, as was shown in this parliament in the debate on the transport white paper 2010 in february 2003. for my group and for some others, water transport is an alternative to ever more and ever wider motorways. it's a way of saving space and the environment. another view, on the other hand, is that we should have more of everything, including an ever-increasing number of motorways. the creation of excess capacity gives operators greater freedom to choose the most profitable mode of transport at any given time within that excess capacity. an example of overcapacity is the construction of the expensive betuwelijn, a rail freight ten project in the netherlands, alongside the navigable rivers waal and lek, downstream of the rhine. more important than such projects, which are likely to be underused, is the widening of the narrow canals in northern france linking belgium and the netherlands and the restoration of the danube transport, which has been severely reduced since the 1999 bombings, between hungary and the black sea. my group opposes overcapacity, even on waterways, at the expense of space, nature and the environment. river adaptation has implications for surface values, biodiversity, drinking water supply and flooding of surrounding lowland. water transport does not eliminate all the risks of pollutants and hazardous substances. their transport poses dangers not only to the river itself but also to the downstream habitats and natural areas. it takes more than cleaner engines and low sulphur fuel. together with the green group, we are proposing infrastructure charges to promote fair competition between different forms of transport, better environmental impact assessment of european development plans, tightening up legislation on the transport of dangerous goods and combating the flagging of inland vessels, which has negative effects on social, safety and environmental standards. only if our water supply meets such quality requirements will its growth be a step forward.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to join the other speakers in warmly endorsing the naiades programme. inland navigation, if properly supported by accompanying policies, can make a substantial contribution to the solution of the transport problem. i am glad that this idea is also being passed on to national, regional and local authorities. both old and new member states are called upon to take account in their economic and planning policies of the possibilities offered by inland navigation to meet the transport needs of businesses. not just for thick but also for thinner goods flows. i also wholeheartedly support the recommendation to actively improve the environmental performance of the fleet. as in road transport, national incentive schemes for the introduction of emission reduction and energy saving also provide an impetus for the greening of the fleet in inland waterway transport. finally, i hope that the member states will approach this action programme with the same positive attitude and commitment as the members of this house have shown in the past.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the preparation of the report, but that it should be a matter of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy to decide on the matter. i see a clear parallel with the discussion we had on services of general economic interest, on which we decided at the last plenary session. in both cases, the issue was how to provide greater legal certainty to local authorities, service providers and citizens. that can conflict at times. on the one hand, the rules of the internal market, on the other, the general interest that these authorities should serve their citizens. now it is often the case that the court of justice, the judge, has to intervene or that the commission gives interpretations. the important message in both these dossiers has been that we really want to cut political knots on this through the codecision procedure and that it is also important that we ask the commission and really insist that it come up with legislative initiatives that we can decide on in codecision with this parliament and with the member states and their parliaments. that is the main message i would like to convey to the commission again with this report.
i have negotiated with mrs handzlik on this matter on behalf of the pse in the committee on the internal market, and it is a pity that she is no longer really participating in the debate, but i think i should say again that we were very much aware of the problems raised by her and by many colleagues in my group from the new member states, and that we of course recognize that unnecessary barriers, unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles to the free movement of services and the free movement of workers must be removed. on the other hand, i have also had enough experience of what is happening in the labour market legally, illegally, semi-legally to know that people are indeed being exploited there and that cross-border possibilities of posting are also being used to evade regulations. i would therefore like to reiterate very clearly that we should not throw away the child with the bath water, but that we should look for a good balance; i would like to point out once again to mr clark, who does not seem to know how these arrangements work, that there is a principle of subsidiarity, that the labour law is governed by the rules of the country of employment and that member states are completely autonomous in this respect and that the posting directive is only intended as an exception to that rule, to regulate situations in which workers are posted across the border and are allowed to work temporarily on their own terms, but with some minimum protections. it is precisely the control of this, and the fact that it is so complex, that makes it necessary to have rules to have possibilities for control, better possibilities for labour inspectorates to cooperate, and that also makes it necessary for us to have that balance. but i would also like to stress, in the context of the services directive, that there is no hierarchy of rules governing that labour law, that member states are autonomous in this respect and that the rules on the free movement of services do not override this.
i would like to ask the president-in-office whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. let me just say that i am glad that we can have such a dialogue on political matters with you on a regular basis - because mr lauk's position is also, of course, a political one. and we've had that conversation recently, too. i think we should continue that, too. i think that the report now before us is an expression of the maturity of this dialogue, which raises very serious issues, particularly the link between monetary policy and macroeconomic policy, which is of great importance to our group. i should like to concentrate on two or three points which have been specifically raised. first of all, i am very pleased with what you have said, mr trichet, about the hedge funds, your commitment to do a better analysis of them and to take them much more seriously. we made that very clear in the dialogue a few weeks ago. you were more reserved then. so i am glad that this is now being brought up much more clearly - i have called it the black hole of the financial markets in another context - because that black hole is growing and very clearly needs to be covered by the supervision of financial markets and stability. the second point concerns the appointment of the members of the executive board of the ecb. we had a discussion about that this spring, on the occasion of the appointment of jürgen stark. we then made it clear that, since we had nothing against the person, the qualified person stark, but wanted to talk about the procedure, we would separate that from the appointment procedure and we would come back to that in this report, which is what we are doing now. i regret that the ppe does not want to join in improving this procedure and in making it more mature, and the role we as the european parliament can play in it. but i am glad that at least the liberals and other groups here support it. i hope we can make progress on this for the next appointment, which will not take place until 2009/10. this is very important because it should not be the case that large countries have a qualified seat and that therefore only the federal chancellery in berlin decides in this case who is a good candidate. the last item is target ii: we have clearly chosen not to take a position on this or on the code of conduct being prepared by the commission, but to look very closely at what you are going to do and to state clearly that if the ecb and the eurosystem are to play an active executive role in this, there must be good supervision and democratic decision-making. that's what we agreed on.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i must say that my group is taking a traditional line this time, the line we have taken in recent years on this point. firstly, our line on monetary policy is clear. the independence of the european central bank must not be compromised, there must be no political pressure and we must avoid politicizing monetary policy in europe, in the euro zone. we must reaffirm our confidence in the european central bank. in september 2005, inflationary pressures were recorded at 2,6% and the european central bank acted appropriately by raising the historically very low interest rate. price stability is the priority of the european central bank and must remain so, as set out in the treaty. that said, we also believe and continue to believe that more transparency is possible. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i also appreciate the efforts made by the european central bank in this respect, and mr president, your presence here in the plenary is quite different - although it is the same people - from your presence in the economic and monetary affairs committee. this is also very much appreciated; i think it's unique that you do, too. yet much of the european central bank's decision-making takes place in a dark room. now, of course, we do not want the whole european parliament and the bbc to be present at the meetings of the ecb's executive board, but we do want to know what arguments are in favour of or against a decision taken and whether or not that decision was taken unanimously, so that the market can better assess monetary policy. finally, mr president, we are calling for a reform of the procedure for appointing the members of the executive board of the ecb. we believe that the current de facto distribution of ecb seats based on the size of the member states should be abandoned. it doesn't have to be a big public debate, but we really think that choosing from multiple candidates is a better system.
president. - in agreement with the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, the text reads as follows: "considers that for ensuring", et cetera.
in writing. the grech and elles rapporteurs are right to call for greater efficiency in the handling of the 2007 budget. the setting of priorities is also a necessary and sensible element in the approach of the rapporteur, mr elles. this does not automatically mean that more money should go to the priority budget lines. the non-priority budget lines deserve rather a more critical approach. unfortunately, most of the amendments are still in favour of increasing the budget. i would also like to make a specific comment on multilingualism. it is good that attention is also being paid to improving efficiency. however, the focus on cost reduction must not be allowed to jeopardize multilingualism. all in all, it is good that, following the council's position, more attention has been paid to efficient and more economical farming. that is why i support mr grech's resolution.
in writing. europe must keep its distance from syria. not because the us president bush says that this country is part of the axis of evil, but because it oppresses its own people and creates unnecessary hardship for others. syria has been a dictatorship for many years under the leadership of father and son el assad. many of the country's inhabitants were forced to flee abroad, for otherwise they would be imprisoned or be completely unaccounted for. opposition cannot organize internally. not only political opponents but also kurds and christians feel threatened. in neighbouring lebanon, syria has been responsible for years of military occupation, political assassinations and the arming of hezbollah. in the neighbouring country of israel, syria is seen as the most unreasonable neighbour who never wants peace and reconciliation, and one can abuse syria's behaviour as one of the arguments for not working towards a peace agreement with a neighbouring palestinian state. syria recently secretly extradited a dutchman of iranian origin to iran. the eu's position on syria is still too focused on good relations with all the mediterranean countries and too little on democracy and human rights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the situation in tibet is not getting better, it's getting worse. maybe that's our own fault, too. before 1951, european countries accepted that tibet should be part of china, even though it was not on maps. this continued when, in the 1950s, the people's republic of china effectively took control of this inhospitable area by military means and the dalai lama fled to india. tibet is now more easily accessible from china via the world's highest railway. foreign climbers have recently witnessed the brazen shooting of residents trying to flee the country. the government and probably the vast majority of the chinese public view tibet as a largely unoccupied territory to be colonized by chinese from the most densely populated areas. the chinese economy is now more intertwined with the european economy than ever before, and this gives europe a powerful lever. the question is whether we want to use that drug. without pressure, the oppression will continue.
president. - i should like to begin by congratulating mrs lienemann on her excellent report. she has written a really excellent report. it is not easy for fish to survive in the seas and oceans surrounding the european union. overfishing and pollution have taken their toll. that's it. so we need to take drastic measures now to prevent fish becoming extinct by 2040. this prediction of scientists is an important warning. the marine strategy is a good initiative, but i think the directive is still too weak. first of all, fisheries reserves must be established. the establishment of reserves at spawning grounds enables fish to reproduce undisturbed. it's been proven to work in new zealand and australia. if we introduce sustainable fishing methods in addition to reserves, we can secure the future of fisheries in the waters around the european union. it is also important to deal with the exotic pollutants and the problem of ballast water. the japanese oyster has found a pleasant climate in the north sea with no natural enemies, but this oyster is actually growing too well. ballast water can be easily treated and this is a joint task. the marine directive forces member states to think about how to improve the environmental status of the seas and how to work together better. it's in the best interest of all of us. i wholeheartedly support mr lienemann's report and i hope that you will all do the same.
i would like to thank mr freitas for the initiative he has taken in discussing this important subject tonight. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in 1984 there were large non-marketable surpluses. that is clearly no longer the case at the moment. the difference between world market prices in 1984 and the price in the european union was large. the price difference is now considerably smaller. if prices in the european union are close to world market prices, there is much less reason to have a quota system than there was in 1984. i fully agree with the commissioner that, as she has just said, it is important that farmers know what they are up against. i do not know when the commission will be able to give the precise proposals or direction, but it would be ideal to speak about all the other aspects of agricultural policy in the context of the health check and also to hear the commission's views on the quota system. it has already been said that the situation in the european union is not the same everywhere. if the commission does make that analysis, it is important that it be done by country and perhaps by region. it is important for some regions to maintain a quota system. perhaps the commission could comment on this in its analysis. whatever the outcome, based on the information i have now, i think it is better to phase out the quota system in the long term. because if we compare the european union's present presence on the world dairy market with that of 1984, the situation is now considerably worse, and that is a bad thing.
i would like to thank mr freitas, the president, for the way he has presented the initiative of the european christian democrats, and i would like to thank the commissioner for opening the debate on the future of dairy. because let's face it, the situation has changed over the years. the cost of milk production has risen considerably as a result of the high cost of quotas, and at the same time european dairy policy is becoming increasingly stagnant. we have lost 60% of our exports to the world market, and the european union and the european dairy sector have lost 4% of world production. so with global demand for dairy increasing much faster than production, europe would do well to face the situation and consider what needs to happen after 2015. on the one hand, there are entrepreneurs who want to grow and cannot because of the high quota costs. on the other hand, there are areas in europe where the milk quota is already being exceeded. i am thinking, for example, of the united kingdom. so all the more reason to look now at how we can use a good road map after 2015 to come up with a better and more effective system. i would like to make a few points on this point. first of all, the milk quota must be made internationally tradable. the superlevy should be reduced when the quota is used but the sale is made virtually without support to the european union. we can also think of the harmonization of the milk quota at european level. if one country does not milk the quota and the other can use a little more, we can then balance the case just fine. the commission has also proposed a gradual increase in the quota for dairy farmers and cooperatives selling their products without european support. finally, the effective use of european funds for rural development in areas with small dairy farmers where problems of employment and conversion arise. in this way the commissioner may well use a good guide that leads to a more market-oriented approach and as a cda from the netherlands i would very much welcome the commissioner to follow that line. i must compliment her, also because some of these proposals have been put forward by her dairy director, mr rasmussen. that provides a future perspective for a timely debate on dairy.
the report by mr pimenta, which i am referring to, is a report which has been approved unanimously by the committee on agriculture. we thought that additional aid for rural development in portugal was justifiable, although of course it is not ideal. however, it was part of a whole package of measures agreed by the council in december. the european parliament did not consider it necessary to change the financial perspective during the negotiations. but again, it's not ideal and it has to be exceptional. however, something similar has been agreed for several countries. if i may, mr president, i would also like to say something about the goepel report. the european parliament's committee on the financial perspectives, which was subsequently approved by the whole of the european parliament, made it clear that the european parliament had reservations about this voluntary modulation. it is therefore surprising that the commission has come up with a proposal so quickly. it has simply been following the orders - or whatever you want to call it - of the council. i disagree with the commissioner that there is no danger of renationalising the european agricultural policy. i think that's a very dangerous trend. the most important thing for the european farmer is the single market of 500 million consumers, and we must try to preserve it as much as possible. nor has there been any examination of the effects of the policy - mr goepel has already said that. it is possible that by 2013 the average farmer in europe will receive a third less as a result of all sorts of measures than he was presented with in 2004. is that the kind of trustworthy government the european union wants to be? what are the consequences of that? can the farmers survive in certain regions and so on? we have not received an analysis of it and it seems to me that the commission is obliged to analyse what the implications are if a proposal is made. one of the important rights of this parliament is budgetary law - mr bösch will no doubt deal with this later. we have approved the financial perspective. the financial perspective contains precise figures. so much for this, so much for that and, among other things, so much for market measures in the framework of the european agricultural policy and so much for rural policy. if that voluntary modulation is carried out, it means a change in those figures. is that not a change in the financial perspective? in my opinion, yes. and a change in the financial perspective implies approval by the budgetary authority and that means approval by both the european parliament, the commission and the council. now i am not at all sure that the european parliament will agree to that. i shall therefore vote against the european commission's proposals on voluntary modulation.
president. - we are having a debate as we have for many years. some elements are always the same. again, no declaration of trust, much to the displeasure of anyone who has a warm heart for european cooperation. and again, it is not entirely clear to us why that declaration of assurance is not given. every year we ask the court of auditors for more precise information and every year there are again those typical phrases in the report - i will quote a few: 'the court of auditors concluded that, overall, cap expenditure still shows material errors.' the commission has already made a number of proposals. 'for both programme periods (1994-1999 and 2000-2006), the court found that expenditure was not free from material irregularities.' yes, we have been asking for high-risk and low-risk budget lines for years. is it not possible for the court of auditors to be a little more precise and to give some acceptable error rates, etc. we can also measure what improvements have been made. i have the impression that the commission is becoming a little more assertive. that seems to me to be entirely justified here. it is not just a matter of accounting, but also a matter of effectiveness. it is a pity for this parliament that neither the president of the court of auditors nor commissioner kallas has said a word about the new financial perspective. there's a new element in there. we ask that a politician at a certain level make an annual statement on reliability. the question is essential for parliament: how will the commission do this? it is a pity that the commission is silent on this point in all the languages and that the court of auditors is not mentioning it on any point either. it is part of the multiannual budget, so it has to be implemented by the member states and the commission.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group today, parliament is pleased to discuss the european court of auditors' enlightening report on the spending of european funds in 2005. the accountants are negative again. there are still too many, too large and too structural errors in the way european money is spent. in this respect, this report differs little from the previous eleven. what has changed is the reaction to the negative opinion of the court of auditors. in the past, the european institutions, such as the commission, were always making a mea culpa of themselves and promising improvement. this time the commission has attacked the court of auditors, accusing it of being too critical and of not presenting a clear report. they even say we have to learn to live with a number of mistakes. however, the fact is that europe is the proud owner of 200,000 virtual cows, which are subsidized but do not exist. the fact is that once again major errors have been found in the olive oil, export subsidies and structural funds. the fact is that this is not getting money to where it's needed most. it is also a fact that this is causing the citizens of europe to lose more and more confidence in the union. a mature institution should use criticism to improve action. the european institutions show that even at the age of 50 they have not yet reached this stage of maturity.
madam president, i would just like to ask commissioner kallas something for clarification. he was a little ambiguous in his answer to my question, so i would just like to ask him again: when will the commission remind member states about the obligations in respect of the financial perspective?
first of all, mr president, i would also like to express my support for mrs sornosa. she wrote a very good report. as all the speakers have said, mercury is very, very toxic and that is why we must ban the use of mercury in all unnecessary applications. there are alternatives available, and it is therefore good that the mercury thermometer, for example, is a thing of the past. there is a lot of debate about barometers and we have just heard a little bit about that. in the netherlands, the use of mercury has been banned since 2003, but an exception was made for barometers until 2005 and then until 1 january 2006 pending new european rules. the european parliament is now advocating an additional two years for the introduction of artisanal barometers, and in doing so it is taking a very permissive stance. of course, i can imagine that this is a harsh message for manufacturers of barometers. but if we want to eliminate mercury, then we should at least ban mercury-containing products for consumers. products can break down or leak and mercury still gets into the environment. i hope we can finalize this legislation so that the mercury ban can go into effect as soon as possible.
in writing. the dutch members of the pse group are naturally in favour of more modulation, of transferring funds from the first to the second pillar of the agricultural budget. modulation is an important improvement from a social democratic point of view, because the current income subsidies are unjust. the biggest farmers get disproportionately more than the others. they are also inefficient because they do not increase the farmer's purchasing power sufficiently. rural development offers more opportunities for all rural dwellers. young and old need good facilities, strong infrastructure and a diverse economy. rural development is also in the interest of the vast majority of farmers. voluntary modulation is less desirable than compulsory modulation because of the potential distortion of competition between european farmers. but the labour party can also agree to it, because it is a step in the right direction. the council has, however, taken a decision without following the most basic democratic path. the european parliament has not been consulted on this major budgetary intervention. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we therefore abstained.
in writing. as a liberal group, we are naturally in favour of opening up the market, including the mortgage market. i therefore welcome the purvis report which proposes to examine various measures which could bring benefits to consumers, including increased competition between mortgage lenders. i am forced to vote against the purvis report, however, because it is not very clear about the various tax incentive schemes for taking out a mortgage, and more specifically about harmonizing them. this is an exploratory first proposal, which mainly raises questions for further research. the legislative stage is still a long way off.
in writing. the mortgage market is covered by the free movement of services and i therefore support the creation of an internal market for mortgage credit. but i am not going to cooperate in harmonizing the system of tax deduction of mortgage interest through a back door in brussels. time and again, politicians stress that europe must deal with broad lines and cross-border issues. this is a very serious matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this matter up with us. the fact that tax policy is not a matter for the european union does not seem to interest a majority of meps. that is why the vvd delegation in the european parliament has voted against paragraph 45 in the purvis report and the delegation has voted against the report as a whole. i regret that no major group has dared to call for a majority vote on this matter. the european citizen is thus unable to find out how individual members of parliament voted.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i too greatly appreciate the policy statement of commission president barroso and i am glad that he now understands dutch. he can understand dutch. the commission president understands dutch. mr president, i have five comments on the statement. i welcome his remark that europe is more than just a market. if you say that, you have to give it your all. that means for us - we will ask that in the resolution - that you have to map out what the consequences of the internal market are for that european citizen. because once you've mapped out those consequences, you can respond appropriately to them. president. - the next item is the report (doc. the reconciliation of work and family life, more people in the labour market, is also one of the priorities of the lisbon process. we want more action on that. i would like to raise a third point. a green paper on employment legislation is to be published. we have seen this announced for a long time, but when will it actually come? then a fourth point. president barroso has spoken about attracting immigration. i am not sure how to explain this to the colleagues who will be joining us from poland, bulgaria and romania, where free movement of workers has not even been introduced yet. so i'd like to hear your reaction to that. mr president, i have a fifth point to make. i would like the commissioner for social affairs to do a little more work on all the dossiers which are still in the council, namely, temporary agency work, the working time legislation, but also the pension mobility dossier which i know is causing major problems and on which some improvements are already being made at the commission level. we in the group of the european people's party are happy to discuss this further with you.
on behalf of the alde group . – madam president, two years ago the european parliament gave mr barroso’s commission the green light, but only after he pledged to make fundamental rights a top priority. however, it seems that mr barroso – who unfortunately is no longer here – forgot his pledge the very next day, because fundamental rights have disappeared altogether from the strategic objectives. the work programme for 2007 lacks vision, ambition and courage in this respect, which is very cynical in the year of equal opportunities. better lawmaking is a good thing, but we actually need more action on fundamental rights, not less. parliament has repeatedly called for a horizontal directive banning all forms of discrimination. we called for urgent action against discrimination against homosexuals and against rampant homophobia. none of this is in the work programme. why are human rights not the centrepiece of the union’s external policies? security is indeed a priority, but not the selling-out of democracy and civil liberties. measures are being taken in backroom deals that are not subject to parliamentary scrutiny or judicial review. they are neither proportionate nor effective, and citizens are increasingly defenceless against abuse and mistakes by the authorities. where are the commission proposals addressing this issue and aimed at resetting the balance? finally, on democracy and transparency, the commission floated proposals for a european pnr policy and positive profiling at an informal gathering of ministers, so how is it that these proposals do not feature in this official document? and why is the commission going along with the council in informal get-togethers on security policy, such as the ones on 16 august or with the us last week? i would very much like answers to those questions.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. perhaps you remember, mr president, the tense debates in the plenary when this commission was appointed. in his speech, in which he asked for the confidence of this parliament in his team, president barroso referred to the much-debated candidacy of mr buttiglione and said - i have his speech here - "however, one good thing will have come out of this unfortunate incident: it has highlighted the importance we attach to decisive political action by the european union in the fight against all forms of discrimination. for this commission, civil rights and an anti-discrimination approach will be top priorities.' there was going to be a group of commissioners who were going to be concerned with coherent action against discrimination and i would like to know how often this group meets, what is on the agenda and what has actually been achieved. why have you not proposed, as has been said here before, to raise the scope of the directive on equal treatment for all, regardless of sexual orientation, religion or belief, age or disability, to the level of the so-called race directive? the latter covers not only the labour market but also the supply of goods and services. because, mr president, can you explain to me why, under european directives, a black heterosexual man should not be discriminated against when applying for a loan from a bank or when renting a house, but a homosexual man should be de facto discriminated against? on 16 january, commissioner frattini said that he would like to see this adjustment, but that the commission would not propose it because it would not achieve the necessary unanimity in the council of ministers. now, mr. president, that is not leadership. will the commission now only make proposals after the council has already given its consent? that seems like a strange sequence to me. let us also take advantage of the increased openness of the council of ministers. let the member states show that they are against equal treatment. let this be the subject of a crossborder public debate, because i wonder if commissioner wallström does not agree that europe is only then getting closer to the citizen. 2007 is the year of equal opportunities and it seems to me that we have no time to lose. the commission has not done much in this area, and i have therefore wanted to make the european commission's life a little easier. i have already put a proposal for a new directive on paper for you. there will be no more excuses. it is now up to mr frattini to put into practice the fine words of commissioner barroso in october 2004, and i shall therefore now also be submitting the proposal for a directive to the commission.
i would like to begin by congratulating the commission on its intention to reduce the administrative burden by 25%. that is a very important objective and i advise you to make it as concrete as possible. in the netherlands we have also managed to achieve a 25% reduction, but communication with businesses and citizens has led to complaints about too much bureaucracy. the reduction was not yet felt by the public and businesses, mainly because it was at the macro level. but at the micro level, the bureaucracy continues. i could think of a very simple method of simplification, mr president. for example, in the area of public procurement, raise the lower limit. i live in a village of 25,000 people. a new swimming pool is being built and it has to be tendered according to european rules with all the bureaucracy around it. is that really necessary or can we not raise the lower limit a little bit so that it is limited to the really important projects, where there is a need for real international competition? president. - the debate is closed. we have repeatedly said as the european parliament that we want a broad impact assessment. that means: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national experts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal framework is not distorted. secondly, we have repeatedly said that we want an independent review of the quality of this impact assessment. so far we have seen a lot from the commission in this area, but it has been unsatisfactory. we want that independent control because it can also bring about greater transparency. if this is brought to the commission under the presidency of mr barroso, then that is of course a step in the right direction. however, because of the lack of transparency, i fear that we will still have a bureaucratic trench war between the service under mr barroso and the commission services responsible for impact assessment.
i would like to thank the commission for this communication. i have to start with some more troubling findings. i am extremely sorry to have to say that the commission's communication lacks a clear perspective for development. i would like to draw attention once again to the three objectives of european development policy as set out in the treaty, namely sustainable development, the fight against poverty and the gradual integration of the developing countries into the world economy. these deserve to be clearly included in the communication. they're missing. i would also like to call on the commission to tackle better the problem of the coherence of other policies with development policy. i am thinking in particular of the relationship between fisheries, trade and migration. this is an important condition for achieving our own development goals and also for making an effective contribution to the achievement of the millennium development goals which we have all agreed to. finally, i would ask the commission to include in the list of priorities in communications the following areas: the state of play of the european union's contribution to the development objectives. secondly, the progress of european development policy in relation to the wto development round and thirdly, the impact of the commission proposal on highly educated migrants on the brain drain in developing countries. finally, mr president, the absence of the millennium development goals and the fight against poverty is particularly striking and disappointing when it comes to europe's role as a partner in the world.
mr president, many citizens are sceptical of the present europe and its mission is unclear. too much money goes to the old priorities, such as agriculture, and too little money goes to the new priorities, the europe of the future, such as education, migration policy and fair trade. europe must not only be social from the inside, but also from the outside. it is as a soft power that a coherent, united europe can make a difference in the world. we have to take action, not unilaterally, like the invasion of iraq, but with the help of the security council, and we have to take action in darfur. we must not fall back on bilateral trade agreements, but on a multilateral trade agreement in the world trade organisation which respects national public services such as water, education, social security or public housing. no export subsidies that create unfair competition for africa. we must stop these highly distortive agricultural subsidies and dumping before 2013. the money thus released can be used to develop regional agricultural markets in africa. we must also open our markets to value-added products from those poor countries. aid and trade, you are advocating good initiatives for greater coherence and coordination. but in the areas of migration, agriculture and trade, there are still major contradictions. these contradictions could pose serious problems for the conclusion of the regional trade agreements currently being negotiated. in migration, you emphasize the suppression of the problem, but there is no effective approach to preventing the brain drain. why not a green card initiative? finally, you have accepted the dci. i miss the initiative to streamline the cotonou agreement in the same way. i also miss the energy and time for the actual implementation in 2007. for national policy documents, that means consultation there and here. it means working with public documents. it means creating real ownership in the developing world with the civil society organizations, the parliaments and the governments there. the same commitment of dci must be given real influence and control over this parliament. commission, 2007 will be the year of truth for you. will the unilateral market thinking continue at european global level or will fair competition and solidarity become the norm and will europe prove to africa that the millennium development goals are achievable? now africa is going down. 2007 should be the year of the reversal.
excuse me, it may be a matter of the interpretation but i am quite surprised to hear what you say, because i do not think that you have responded to either of the questions. you have not responded to the first question that was put to you in writing. you refer to the dinner on 7 december of last year as concerning bilateral relations between member states and the us. if i understand correctly, that was a meeting where all the member state governments and the us were represented, and if i am not mistaken mr solana and mr de vries were there as well. i think, president-in-office, that a great deal has come out in the meantime about the existence of secret prisons and the rendition flights that took place in europe. can you confirm that the dinner took place and that the matter was discussed? when will the council start its own investigation and recognise what the rest of the world already knows?
i am grateful to the commissioners and to the members for taking the time to speak on this very interesting subject. we have left gambling and internet gambling out of the services directive because we are afraid to take a decision on them. it is still covered by articles 43 and 49 of the treaty and at the moment - as is also shown by the 11 infringement procedures - there is a huge legal uncertainty among member states and among companies. how do we deal with that? i am glad that the committee on the internal market has put this oral question. there are problems. on the one hand, there is the problem that it brings a lot of money to the member states in tax revenue and on the other hand, it creates social problems. but the main problem is that, in a market where there is a lot of money to be made, if there is no proper legal regulation, there is a lot of illegal practices in which criminal organizations are dominant. so i think, mr president, and i hope the commissioner agrees with me, that politicians must take up the glove and dare to take decisions. we must not surrender to the very wise judges in luxembourg who then have to bite through this sour apple. i fear that many more judgments of the european court of justice will follow unless we as politicians take the right decisions. i hope that the commission and the council will come to that conclusion. if not, i hope that parliament will come forward with an own-initiative report to provide the legal certainty that is really necessary because of the many problems that exist, namely addiction, public health problems, black money, money laundering, you name it. we need to solve this with a strict, clear directive on gambling and online gambling. i hope the commissioner will advise me on how parliament should deal with this.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have now reached a historic moment because we have decided, as a parliament and as a political body, on one of the first freedoms. the rest we leave to the european court of justice, because we did not dare last night - speaking of gambling - to remove the real chestnuts from the fire. we are going to let the european court of justice do that by judges who are not elected. i am glad that the politicians, the elected representatives of the citizens of europe, have finally decided on the free movement of services. i would like to thank evelyne gebhardt in particular for ensuring that her group did not table any amendments. i also note that the atmosphere has improved a great deal now that the compromise has been reached, because this dossier has led to a lot of tension. but, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that this is about the tensions between poland and france, between the netherlands and the baltic states or anything else. it's europe, china and india. so we must, as europe, keep up with the pace of the nations.
so, mr president, today parliament is voting on the european services directive and it will most likely be the last time. it seems to be a race to the finish, since the largest groups have indicated their support for the compromise and have not tabled amendments. it seems to them that the directive in its present form is so perfect that they are renouncing their democratic right to submit proposals for improvement. my group is not so enthusiastic. the services directive continues to threaten the quality of services and the achievements of workers across europe. the text remains unclear and open to multiple interpretations. in addition, the improvements achieved at the previous reading are now threatened by, for example, the wording of the secondment directive. for this reason my group will vote against the gebhardt report.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). when i get gifts like that from my friends, i think i'm gonna go find other friends. i do not want to minimize the work that has been done, but i voted against the compromise the first time and i am afraid i cannot support it now. i fear that fear, protectionism and the need to preserve the environment have prevailed in this whole debate. this compromise adds little to what is already in the treaty. that in itself is not a sufficient reason to oppose it, but the fact that this directive seems to justify the exclusion of public services from the rules of fair competition. i think that is a very dangerous precedent and, moreover - we have just been talking about legal clarity - the definitions used are marked by legal vagueness. i think there is a lot of hypocrisy in this debate, because when western europe bought up the companies in eastern europe in the early 1990s, there was no discussion at all. president. - the next item is the report (doc.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further complicated by the fact that the palestinians are not able to access the territory of the occupied palestinian territories. the sad balance, one dead and one seriously injured in the place sderot. a reprisal for the massacre last week in beit hanoun, the attackers say. not in any case the name of the badly affected athamna family from beit hanoen. on the contrary, they emphasize - you can read it in the israeli press today - that enough blood has been shed. sadly, this palestinian spirit of reconciliation has no echo at all among several prominent representatives of hamas. they have stressed in every possible way in recent days that the new palestinian government has not been asked to recognize the zionist enemy. the council and the commission, can you clarify this recurring palestinian political controversy between fatah and hamas? at the same time, i would like to hear your reaction to the statement by the prospective prime minister of that eventual palestinian unity cabinet, mohammed shabir: "i will make my position clear upon appointment". have you contacted him yet? mr president, it is reported that the quartet is meeting today in cairo to relaunch the peace process. i expect the explosive situation in gaza to be high on the agenda. the council and the commission will have been aware of what the head of the israeli shin bet security service said in the knesset yesterday. if the radical political and military tide in gaza does not turn, israel will have no option but to launch a major military operation. shin bet chief yuval diskin also reported that since israel's withdrawal from gaza, as many as 33 tons of military explosives, large quantities of weapons and between $50 and $70 million in cash have been smuggled into the gaza strip. egypt in particular is not doing so, in violation of a specified military agreement with israel. in short, the european union should use the quartet meeting to remind egypt and indeed the entire arab world of their responsibility. do not let gaza become the dreaded hamasstan.
mr president, when i look at our policy towards the palestinians i can see our stick but where is our carrot? the palestinians are losing any faith they had left in a solution and in us as part of the international community. we are faced with two peoples who are craving peace and quiet in their lives, and we cannot rely on old rhetoric any longer. we all know where the solution lies. we need to acknowledge that the two sides are not making it on their own. a call for negotiations – no matter how justified – will not be enough this time around. i want to ask the council and the commission: are you willing to consider bold ideas? let the palestinians define their state with the green line as its border. let us then recognise it, let us use all our weight to get the quartet to recognise it as well and let us then force israel to accept it. only then will steps to increase trust and confidence have any chance to succeed, because there can be no peace without justice. i say this as a friend of israel, convinced, as i am, that we should not just save the future of the palestinian state, we also need to protect israel from itself. this is our responsibility.
president. - the european ombudsman's annual report shows that a quarter of the complaints come from citizens who feel that there is a lack of transparency in the european institutions. of course, these complaints are not always justified, and this is also stated in the detailed report, but nevertheless, this is a relatively large number. so there is still a lot to improve. the rapporteur rightly points out that, according to the treaty of nice, every european institution must strive for maximum openness and accessibility. the complaints are, of course, usually directed at the european commission, because that is where citizens have the most to do with, but in fact it is mainly the council of ministers that is making the slowest possible hurry. openness can wait a while in the old-fashioned culture of paternalistic power, of the top-down approach. nevertheless, trust is an essential condition for policy effectiveness. yet the world needs a strong eu supported by its citizens, because there is more at stake than just a little governance. only europe will be willing to stand up for a different kind of globalisation, a social, sustainable and equitable development. only if europe is committed to this can the eu really gain trust. but only a europe which is open to all decisions will have that confidence. and if we want to increase europeans' trust in their own european union in the long term, openness and accessibility are therefore, first and foremost, an absolute political priority. europe, throw open the doors!
it is a pity that more dutch people are not taking part in this debate, because the netherlands rejected the constitution last year and all the parties that were against the constitution won a large number of votes last week. we do not yet know what coalition will emerge, but i hope that the netherlands will once again show the ambition and vision that europe was used to from us, instead of just stepping on the brakes. because europe is in dire need of reform. in the field of security, the veto is paralysing. the member states are therefore increasingly resorting to informal arrangements that disguise both national and european parliamentary control in a kind of parallel, opaque and undemocratic decision-making structure. vetoes can be abolished without the constitution, for example in the field of police and judicial cooperation. even without the constitution, council meetings can be fully public and citizens' initiatives that gather a million signatures can be taken into account. the europe of governments and diplomats has reached its limits. it is therefore more likely that a solution will be found in a public debate, for example in the convention, than in closed negotiations between ministers and heads of government. it also avoids blockades by individual countries. prime minister ahern is probably right that it is better to improve the constitution by additions than by stripping it completely. he is also right that simultaneous ratification throughout europe would be much better than national procedures. the first priority, however, must be to incorporate the charter of fundamental rights. the european fundamental rights are the beating heart, the soul of our community, and europe will be alone if it has a soul. i therefore support the words of prime minister ahern.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, a close partnership between russia and the european union is of vital interest to both sides, but for that partnership to be viable it must be based on balance: balance between the interests of the union and the interests of russia, and balance as regards economic issues and issues of democracy and fundamental human rights. looking at recent summits, some progress was made. as was mentioned, rights in respect of siberian overflights will meet wto standards. that is a good thing. the visa facilitation of last year is also a good development. however, in general, the summit was disappointing. the polish veto plays a major role. although in general we are against vetoes and we must all work together to get this veto from the table, i must say that the european people’s party understands the polish position. we agree with commission president barroso, who has called the ban on polish meat by russia an excessive reaction. he saw no reasons for maintaining this ban. that is why the european people’s party calls upon russia to work constructively with us to get this veto from the table by finding ways to lift the ban on polish meat. we would like to see the same attitude to georgia. we hope that, as regards moldova, the ban will go from the table – we saw an announcement about that today and we would ask russia not to threaten to have bans on all of the european union when romania and bulgaria enter. if we can proceed with the negotiations, let us talk about balance and economy. if russia wants to invest in our industries, we must be able to invest in the same way in russian industries. let us talk about the energy chapter, where we hope, after the agreement in principle, that the basic principles of the chapter will be accepted. last but not least, let us talk about human rights. i hope the human rights dialogue can take place in public. i really hope that russia will send good signals after the recent suspicious assassinations by first of all catching the killers of anna politkovskaya. let us, as europe, be united on this more than ever before. (applause)
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, this is a very important, historic debate in this house. i should like to thank the rapporteurs for all the work they have done, and commissioner rehn for the clever and efficient way in which he has prepared the process that will now lead to the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu on 1 january 2007. this is also an opportunity to say a final word of welcome to both countries as members of the european union. it has been a long and arduous process, but it is all very rewarding in the end, especially for the two countries, which were not able to join in 2004. they can now join the other central and eastern european member states as full participants in the union. we asked a lot of these countries, and we can see the results of their efforts, especially over the past year. i should like to congratulate both countries for this result. throughout the process, our group has been very supportive of the accession of both countries on the earliest possible date. i would also like to welcome our bulgarian and romanian colleagues, who have been observers so far, but they will be full members of this house as of 1 january. i am convinced that they will continue their constructive work after that date. i personally am also happy for another reason: i have been participating in so many debates on romania and bulgaria, and i am happy that this burden will now shift to other committees in this parliament! this is the final debate prepared by the committee on foreign affairs on romania and bulgaria. that is also a good thing. nevertheless, parliament will remain involved on the basis of our reports, and on the basis of the progress report that the commission will have to present in future on the homework still to be done by the two countries. i am quite convinced, however, that both governments and parliaments are well aware of what has to be done. finally, as my last remark on romania and bulgaria, i should like to welcome all of you, and i am quite sure that both countries will play a constructive role in the future development of our european union.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. president, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, edward mcmillan-scott and hélène flautre, for the way in which they have taken over the opinions of the committee on budgets. the committee on budgets is concerned with two points. firstly, the accounting and financial framework 2007-2013. the budgetary committee wants us to be able to monitor the expenditure of the money. secondly, the rights of the european parliament in this area must be safeguarded, both in consultation with the ep and in the implementation of the policy, which, according to the commission's statement, must be carried out under proper democratic control. we are very pleased that the committee on foreign affairs and the rapporteurs have adopted this proposal. the committee on budgets also considers it very important that money should also be made available from other important instruments, for development, but also for partnerships with neighbouring countries and pre-accession. if that happens, if this instrument is used in that way, i am convinced that when we speak about this programme in the committee on budgetary control in five years' time, we will be able to give a discharge in this area.
mr president, tomorrow this parliament will vote on a proposal to liberalize the european fireworks market. no one in europe has asked for this except the fireworks industry, whose hand is clearly visible both in the commission document and in the report. there are major differences between the laws on fireworks in the european countries. in my own country, the netherlands, we have been particularly careful since the terrible disaster at a fireworks factory in enschede. we are not waiting for europe to impose harmonization on us, so that we can no longer impose our own stricter requirements on fireworks. the safety of citizens must, in my view, always be put before the profits of the fireworks industry. that is why i shall also be recommending to everyone tomorrow that they vote against this report.
the research programme is one of the main pillars of the lisbon strategy. so it's fine that more money is being spent. it's just a pity it's not nearly enough. it is important that a lot of money be spent on health and energy research. there is a great need for innovative research in these fields. energy has been allocated 2 billion, and at least half of that is going to renewable energy and energy efficiency. there are promising ideas that deserve further research and it is important that member states work together much more closely in this area. in health, it is important to address neglected diseases and antibiotic resistance. it's world health day this week, and it's a good time to raise money for health research. it is also good that 15% of research funding is reserved for small and mediumsized enterprises. but then, of course, the design of the research programmes must be made much less bureaucratic. so far, participation by smes has been limited because there was no way through. hopefully, this can change now. finally, commissioner, i should like to draw your attention to the following: fisheries research is of great importance to protect fish stocks and prevent overfishing. unfortunately, fisheries is not a separate theme in the seventh framework programme. what guarantees do you give that there will be sufficient attention and money for this important research work?
president, minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this seventh framework programme is indeed a milestone, both in terms of the budget and in terms of overall policy. as the epp-ed shadow rapporteur on capacities, i note that we have succeeded in obtaining additional budgets, additional possibilities for the use of structural fund resources for research infrastructure at regional level. the budget has thus been increased by many billions with the rapporteur mr buzek, mr prodi, mrs hübner and the committee on regional policy of this parliament. it can be decentralized. and together with the risk-sharing facility at the eib, it can be invested heavily. the recently published research and research infrastructure roadmap sets the course for this. i see all over europe this kind of joint investment, high-tech campuses and open innovation emerging. we must, in the face of fierce global competition, achieve greater focus, greater mass and greater coherence between research and infrastructure. i'm closing up. and that way, we can get to the centers of excellence for nanotechnology, microelectronics, healthcare, and so on. not a brain drain, but a brain gain.
the european parliament must maintain and seek to strengthen its leading role in patient rights in europe. there is still much to be gained in the field of patient information. the european citizen has the right to be better informed, as the right to information for the patient is enshrined in the european charter of the rights of hospital patients. patients should be better informed about possible medicines and different treatments. why would the doctor have a monopoly on this information? the provision of more information to consumers is, if i may say so, a liberal wish in the best sense of the word. and in the field of medicine, important developments have taken place in recent years. the patient lineup has changed radically. more and more of them feel that they have a right to more information and more and more of them actively seek information about the treatment of their illness. patients want to be (co-) responsible for their own treatment. and they often seek out other patients who suffer from the same disease to share information. when citizens are fully informed, they may make different choices. the citizen has every right to do this.
the world health fund is already the largest fund in the world in the fight against these diseases. i am proud that 65% of the contributions to the eu fund come from the eu. president barroso has made a strong statement and commitment to the global fund. that is most commendable. europe has a responsibility to the rest of the world and this fund is fulfilling that responsibility. but, mr. chairman, i must point out to you and to those present a great scandal. next year barroso is in danger of not being able to honour his promise to the global fund. the money from the european development fund that was reserved for the global fund before 2007 has already been spent on other things. the commission now wants to compensate for this budgetary gap by taking money out of the general development budget. that means: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, it is not possible to explain this to all those people who rely on our support and our commitments. how is it possible that the commission is asking us to choose between the fight against deadly diseases and all the other things we stand for, which we have set out in the budget, on the one hand, and the contributions to achieving the millennium goals on the other? in matters of life and death, it should not be either/or, but and/or. if you can set aside 1 billion for infrastructure and 3 billion for good governance from the european development fund for the coming years, there may still be a little limitation of 100 million a year for the world health fund. president barroso must release that 100 million, not for education, child labour or women's care, but from the european development fund. then just a little less infrastructure, then just a little less on those other points. if you set your priorities right, you are doing well, and if you are not, you are doing well in a way that neglects good planning and thereby seriously harms business. i call on the commission to review this matter firmly.
in writing. last year, the idea was that bulgaria's accession to the eu would be the least problematic. on the other hand, romania's accession would cause or perpetuate major problems, which would have to be postponed until 2008. parliament reserved the right to co-decide on such a deferral for romania, but waived it for bulgaria. the problems in bulgaria have not diminished. with the knowledge we have now, parliament would have agreed the same right of deferral for bulgaria last year. although it was not at first obvious that the newcomers would be admitted on 1 january 2007, opposition has melted surprisingly quickly over the past months. the aim of completing the enlargement sought after the fall of the iron curtain is overcome by practical objections. a majority in this parliament decided today that bulgaria can be a member of the eu in 32 days. although no one is enthusiastic, the prevailing view is that another year of delay will not solve anything. we think that the voters underestimate how negatively this enlargement will be felt in member states which face greater burdens and how unfavourably it may affect the further admission of newcomers.
in writing. our group did not speak again yesterday on enlargement, because the outcome is already decided in advance. a majority in this parliament decides today that romania can be a member of the eu in 32 days. the delay, which prevented romania from joining the other 10 countries on 1 may 2004, does not appear to be sufficient to bring romania up to the original expectations. although no one is enthusiastic, the prevailing view is that another year of delay will not solve anything. we think that the voters underestimate how negatively this enlargement will be felt in member states which face greater burdens and how unfavourably it may affect the further admission of newcomers. public opinion increasingly associates enlargement with low wages and poor reception of migrant workers, or with crime, corruption, environmental pollution, roma discrimination, fascist movements, legal uncertainty, begging street children and financial scandals. that is an argument against the applicant countries, croatia and macedonia. the fact that these countries are likely to be less problematic than romania and bulgaria does not count. on 15 december 2004 we voted in favour of the principle that romania and bulgaria could be admitted in the future, but today we conclude that admission in 2007 is not justified.
in writing. i voted against the accession treaty for romania and bulgaria. the state of affairs in the field of corruption and the rule of law is such that the criteria are not met. the question was whether one year's deferral could be granted to one or both countries. the possibility of postponement was not used again, although objectively, according to the commission's report, there was every reason to do so. that is why i am voting against the moscovici and van orden reports again today. the voters have repeatedly asked for the criteria to be applied strictly and this has been promised time and again, but not done. that is why i am personally voting against today, although i am in favour of romania and bulgaria being admitted to the eu in the long term.
in writing. in addition to the vote on the framework programme for scientific research, the specific programmes will also be voted on. the council will vote on the compromise between the european parliament and the council on the framework programme. the specific programmes are also voted on as a whole. the exception is the specific programmes 'ideas', 'cooperation' and 'capacities', which have been further amended. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. 'certain research areas, such as activities aimed at reproductive cloning of humans or the modification of human genetic material, are not eligible for community funding. the commission also confirmed that it would continue to adhere to current practice and would not submit to the regulatory committee any proposals for projects involving research activities involving the destruction of human embryos, including stem cell production. although this stage of research is therefore excluded from funding, the community will finance the subsequent stages of research involving human embryonic stem cells.' the ppe-de therefore votes in favour of these amendments in 'ideas' and 'capacities'. however, for 'cooperation', the shadow rapporteur indicated free voting. we shall vote in favour of that.
in writing. if we are to tackle the spread of hiv and aids effectively, it is essential to target specific resources to different vulnerable groups. it is important that non-governmental organisations are actively involved in the case, so that they can monitor and hold national governments to account for the implementation of international agreements. people living with hiv should also be involved in policy-making and be at the centre of policies that affect them. the fight against hiv and aids in the world is one of the greatest challenges. that is why this resolution deserves our support.
mr president, as you will recall, we had the debate on world aids day and europe's action in this field on thursday, as the minutes show. the issue of the global health fund and its financing was at stake. the debate with the commission showed that parliament was extremely concerned about the lack of such funding; it therefore asked the commission questions about the development instrument we are debating tomorrow, because it threatened to empty that instrument in favour of the global health fund in order to make a previous mistake in that way. i can now inform you, mr president, that on 3 december we in the committee on development received a letter from the commission, which shows that it is still committed to withdrawing the funding of the global health fund from the edf (european development fund) and to leaving the programming of the thematic part of the development instrument untouched. we shall continue this debate tomorrow, but it is good to note that.
no, mr president, i suggest that the minutes be kept in good order.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this opportunity to make a statement on the subject of the directive on the protection of the environment. first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr guido sacconi, on the result achieved. he's talked a lot in the last few weeks about his dog, who he loved so much that he would go to reach a little less and stay home a little more. that dog, guido, must have been a terrier, witness the tenacity with which you handled this case; it wasn't always easy for the shadow reporters to get what they wanted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the products concerned is not compromised. and that includes all substances produced in quantities of 1 tonne or more per year. others make us believe otherwise. reach also replaces a complex of very opaque legislation that has made the european market unworkable. mr president, what will have to happen is that we will make reach work. it's important enough, 1.3 million people work in the chemical industry, 27,000 mostly small, but also big companies are working with reach, are going to work with reach; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is therefore important that we put a good legislative package on the table. the compromise we have before us is, in my view, the best balance we could find after very long and very difficult negotiations which brought the extremes together in the middle. the compromise is very precarious, protecting on the one hand man, the environment and consumers, the limited animal testing, but it also offers an opportunity to create an optimal climate for european industry; we can tell the finnish minister that we are ahead, but we must make sure that we do not become deadbeats. reach transfers responsibility from the member states to the companies themselves, the most important improvement over the common position. we have better protection of confidential company data, registration is more in line with the nassauer/sacconi package - it is a pity that this has not been done - we minimise red tape, which is important for the epp; a good balance has also been struck in the area of authorization and substitution. it is now up to the european commission to ensure that it becomes a workable entity.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr sacconi, for his report. under his leadership, the european parliament has achieved the maximum possible result in the negotiations. it was difficult to negotiate with a divided parliament and a council that clung to its common position. the fact that after difficult negotiations on several fronts we have finally reached a result with which we can live is to be congratulated. the fact that both the environmental movement and the chemical industry are unhappy with the compromise is understandable, but in this case it is clear that the better is the enemy of the good. no compromise at second reading had led either to the adoption of a virtually unchanged common position or to a long conciliation process which might have resulted in the withdrawal or rejection of the whole proposal. in this case, half an egg is better than an empty shell. i would like to make one further point, namely that i believe that member states should be able to pursue a stricter environmental policy than is currently established; this is particularly true when countries such as sweden and denmark already have such stricter legislation. i shall therefore support my amendment on this subject. i am sorry, mr president, that i will not be able to attend the rest of the debate because of a vote in libe, and i would like to apologise to the commissioner and to mr sacconi for that.
mr president, after almost four years and thousands of amendments, reach is finally a reality. all credit, of course, goes to our rapporteur, mr guido sacconi, who has brought all this to a very good conclusion. the result may indeed be there. replacement has become one of the objectives of reach. reach is not only about knowledge of thousands of chemicals, but also about the substitution of 2,500 dangerous substances. it is high time that dangerous substances were finally disqualified. there is a great deal of concern about dangerous substances. the increase in cancer, allergies and fertility problems in humans and animals is linked to dangerous substances. the majority of the chemical industry is doing its utmost to handle dangerous substances as carefully as possible, but unfortunately careful handling of substances is not always taken for granted. of course, i understand the industry's view that replacement is not something that can be achieved in a hurry. it is good that the new agreement has built in a little more flexibility. the duration of a dangerous substance authorization is now being considered on a case-by-case basis. that's profit for producers. there must be a research plan to develop safe alternatives. that's good for the environment, but it's also good for innovation. the challenge of removing the most dangerous substances from the production process and from products is immense. reach is the catalyst for this innovation which benefits both our competitiveness and the environment. of course, everything now depends on proper implementation. it is important to ensure that smes can make the change. in seven years, there will be a first review. then we can see if it is still possible to get more substances under reach. then we can see if the hormone disruptors can still be put under replacement regimens. i hope that this will also address the duty of care and that the obligation to inform workers and consumers can be improved. until then we will have to work with this and i think a very good compromise has been reached.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur, and certainly his staff, for their commitment to this report. it has been shown that it is an interesting subject, but also a controversial one, and that the committee on agriculture has at least made a correction to the commission's proposal. this means that article 1 (1) (b) of the 2002 european directive should be deleted according to the proposal which was issued following a judgment of the european court of justice. mr president, it was clear from the discussion that there are quite different views on the labelling of compound feedingstuffs. it is not a question of the exact wording, but it is also a question of whether we really want to have a debate on the open declaration clauses in the legislation in question. i think that this open declaration should be condemned, since the current system is not workable and is still not transparent, because eventually labels will still be issued with 110% ingredients. in addition, too little consideration is given to the intellectual property of the feed industry, which is forced by current regulations to make its recipes public. that is bad for industry, but also bad for the farmer, because it also means that our competitors outside the european union know exactly what we are doing. in addition, the current regulations reduce the incentives for innovation in the feed industry. and farmers are not getting any benefit from this either. unfortunately, it turned out that only the deletion of article 1 (1) (b) was at issue and that the other articles in the legislation could not be amended according to the legal services of the european commission, the council and the european parliament. i must say that the coordinators of all the parties shared that view. the european people's party therefore calls for an early review of the whole of the feed legislation, not least because it will provide absolute clarity. mr president, in view of the amendments, i must say that the european people's party is surprised that the liberal group has tabled an amendment to another article, whereas their own coordinator for agriculture has declared this amendment inadmissible. what we want as the european people's party is a rapid revision and we welcome the council's commitment to this point, to complete a complete revision in the first half of 2007; i assume that the commissioner will follow this proposal from the commission to the council.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for his absence, but i have the impression that, despite being a member of this parliament for many years, he is still as enthusiastic about certain subjects as he used to be. if we look at the past, the european union has seen a number of unprecedented livestock feeding scandals that have left a deep impression on politics. it is therefore obvious that we cannot be too cautious in the animal feed sector and there is every reason to monitor it closely. the big question is whether we will solve that by stating exactly the percentages or the quantities on the label. that is probably why it is not effective. it is changing every day and i know very few farmers who study every label before they buy feed. what is important for the average farmer, the average livestock farmer, is what the energy content of the feed is, what the protein content is and what the reputation of the company is. what is the role of government in all this? is it the government that should always have some kind of insight into what a particular manufacturer is doing and how to control that? so i think it is important that every feed manufacturer in europe has the data available at all times to show to anyone who is interested. that does not mean that all business secrets should suddenly be on the street. on the contrary, i do not think we can demand that. there are certain experiences which are good for a particular factory and which can be maintained, but i think the european commission should be able to say that it should always be able to check, as a public authority or as a national authority, what the composition of the feed is and what its possible impact on public health is. one of the interesting aspects of the court of justice's judgment was that the requirements of the directive as we know them were completely out of proportion to the main objective of the directive, which is to improve public health. so my big question is: the current commission is very much in favour of less regulation. how does that fit in with the commission's earlier demands - perhaps even now, if i look at the proposal carefully - of those precise percentages? it doesn't go together. less regulation and accurate percentages? i also have serious doubts that the national legal authorities in seven of the member states have already declared the directive inadmissible. so i think the whole directive as it stands is a legal illusion; i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to come forward with a new proposal as soon as possible.
president. - since the bse crisis and the dioxin scandals, farmers and consumers have needed more reliable information than ever before on the origin and content of feedingstuffs. there is no clear regulation on this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health standards are complied with. it is very possible to reach a compromise and i therefore urge the european commission to come forward with a new proposal in 2007. the indication of all ingredients should be mandatory, but the percentages are only essential for the substances that determine the name of the product. the exact percentages do not always need to be given. the rules for animal feed need not be stricter than those for human food, but the information must be on the product itself for the users, the farmers and the consumers and not be kept silent until something goes wrong, because then it will be too late. the commission proposal should provide such clarity on ingredients. we need a transparent market, and farmers and consumers have a right to it, and the animal feed industry has a right to it. the conservatives and liberals in this house have unfortunately allowed themselves to be too much influenced by industry with their amendments. the eu will have to make a rapid choice of rules in the interests of consumers and farmers. without undue delay, every farmer wants to know exactly what feed his animals are getting. preventing a new crisis requires maximum transparency, which must be achieved in 2007.
the new development instrument will finally give us a development law that puts the millennium development goals at the centre. with these millennium development goals, we made a promise to millions of children in africa. a promise of education and health care. unfortunately, the bitter reality is that in recent years the mdgs have been lost sight of in africa rather than being brought closer. that is precisely why we have been so vigorous in the debate on the financial instrument before us. we have spent a year and a half negotiating this new law intensively, and it was not for nothing. it was not in vain. for the next seven years we will have one clear european development law, with a clear thematic and geographical programme - together worth almost 70 billion - that will give us direction. that puts an end to 16 different schemes that are difficult to implement and control. the new law sets out two clear priorities, the millennium development goals and, within them, education and basic health care, in short, the areas that really matter. the campaigns we have waged to achieve this have not been in vain. we have been working with school education unions and many other education organisations, including education international, to make education more central to european development programmes. the same is true of our actions with health workers to double spending on basic health care. finally, the european commission's commitment to achieve a minimum doubling of spending in 2008 and to spend at least 20% of the geographical budget on education and basic health care is now in place. this includes the thematic part of over 2.5 billion euros. and with this new financial instrument, europe can start making a difference in africa, together with the member states. there are still more than 45 million children who cannot go to school and millions of patients, mostly girls, who lack basic health care. they will have access to the education and health services to which they are entitled in 2015. this puts an end to the struggle which i have been waging with my group since i entered the european parliament in 1999. i thank all the european citizens and organisations who have helped me to do this. from the stop aids alliance to bono, thank you! as of 1 january 2007, we will begin a new chapter, namely the implementation of this law and all its principles and promises. the committee on development and cooperation will devote a large part of its parliamentary time to this. the commission has also been involved in the preparation of the national policy plans and in monitoring their implementation. we do not want a free market, but a 100% commitment from all parties, and we do not accept that the programming for the period up to 2008 has already been completed. consultation of civil society organisations and parliaments there and ngos and the european parliament here, should take place in accordance with the new arrangements. the commission is legally obliged to do so on 1 january. i assume that the commissioner would agree with me without further ado and would be prepared to explain that here without further ado. ten days ago, the funding of the global fund threatened to jeopardize the agreements made on the thematic part of the 2007 law. fortunately, in its letter of 8 december, the commission said that it would still respect the thematic programming agreement for 2007. it would be good if the commissioner would confirm that as well, in order to reply to the 23 ngos who wrote to president barroso urgently this weekend. i would like to congratulate mr president, mr mitchell, the council and the commission on this success. i also thank them very much for their thorough cooperation; i do hope that this house will reject the annulment amendment, because i think we have said, no more amendments, this is the law, let's make this a success.
mr president, development cooperation has been an important area of european cooperation since its inception, with its own commissioner, its own budget, its own committee in the european parliament and the european parliament having codecision on this point. the european union rightly feels a responsibility to contribute to peace and prosperity in countries outside the union as well. the commission's attempt to improve the work is a good thing. we invest a lot and the results are far from satisfactory. look at africa, for example, where poverty actually seems to be increasing. the achievement of the millennium development goals requires a lot of work. the commission's original proposal, mr president, which was intended to improve the situation, was extremely disappointing and not very credible. the development cooperation budget and the european parliament's control were both in danger. the negotiations were not easy, and i congratulate mr mitchell on the excellent work he has done to ensure that there is at least a separate development instrument with codecision and only article 179 as the legal basis. there is agreement on the priorities of the millennium development goals and within them priority for education and basic health care. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is wrong to say that mr mitchell's amendments are against reproductive health. he says - and he reads his reasons for that in the amendments - that it is too important to end it in two sentences. and that's different. the new financing instrument for development cooperation will change the work of parliament. we will have to concentrate more on monitoring and implementation, on the execution of programmes. i hope we can count on the commission's commitment to cooperation and openness in this.
i would like to congratulate mrs klaß on the result achieved. although the groundwater situation can be very different and there are not always transboundary effects, it is positive that we now have a good groundwater directive. it has even succeeded in raising the ambition that the quality of groundwater should not deteriorate. so instead of moping with the faucet open, we're actually turning the pollution faucet off. i am glad that the directive takes account of the specific protection measures that some member states already have. i am referring in particular to denmark, which has strict standards for pesticides because groundwater is used directly as drinking water. although it is already in the treaty, it is good that this directive explicitly confirms that member states may take further measures. finally, i would like to say that the possibility of repealing the current nitrates directive should be seriously considered. the target, a limit value for nitrate, has already been set. the measurement method is now well regulated. the nitrates directive now only concerns the means of achieving that objective. i believe that the means are secondary to the end. the mother can throw away the bath water with a feeling of relief, since the child has now been washed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of bathing water is not affected by the pollution caused by nitrates.
in writing. socialists have a long tradition of international solidarity. they are not only standing up for human rights, peace, democracy, livelihood, fair sharing, public services and a clean environment for the people in their own town, region or state, but also for the people in their neighbouring countries and in other parts of the world. human rights for others are more important than our own economic benefits from cheap imports from countries where human rights are trampled. we have supported boycotts against the dictatorial minority regimes in south africa, the former rhodesia, the former portuguese colonies and pinochet's chile. by joining forces with resistance movements in those countries, we have been able to contribute to radical change. that is why we, the sp delegates in the netherlands, support the flautre/mcmillan-scott report, which concerns human rights in international conventions and relations with dictatorships. we are aware that this report can be misused to take measures against venezuela or other states where the population has opted for radical steps towards human equality, and perhaps even as a justification for humanitarian military interventions. we regret that a section of our gue/ngl group now seems to be choosing the principle of non-interference out of fear of this, and thus inadvertently also to avoid unacceptable dictatorships.
madam president, moving images have a great attraction for people and that is one explanation for the fact that more and more time is spent consuming audiovisual products. it is well known that such attitudes have an effect on human behaviour patterns. the content of the products offered can be useful, but can also be so distressing that many citizens avoid such products for ethical reasons. it is the duty of governments to protect the weak in society. it can do so by providing security in a physical sense, but also in a mental sense. in that respect, i welcome two parts of this report. firstly, by a stricter provision on jurisdiction. i think it is right that member states should have more influence on the provision of audiovisual services broadcast on their territory. each member state has its own identity. audiovisual services offered should be included. compliance with the rules of the country of establishment of the provider is not sufficient. the second point concerns the position of minors and vulnerable people. these groups are relatively easy to seduce into behaviour harmful to themselves and sometimes to their environment. it is up to the legislator to minimize the chance of damage.
it is important to promote the free circulation of european television programmes and to ensure that the production of these programmes is not hindered by excessively strict rules on advertising. the liberal group is committed to a realistic view of product placement. information is good, but consumers do not wait for a warning signal during a television programme. a warning before and after the end of a programme is sufficient. the revenue from advertising and product placement is needed to help finance european productions. the alternative is more cheap american productions, which are crammed with product placement. programmes aimed at children should be subject to stricter standards. the problem of obesity is increasing. given the high impact of advertising of unhealthy foods on children's menu choices, such advertising targeting this target group should be limited. i therefore call for the development of an effective code of conduct on advertising, product placement and other marketing of unhealthy drinks and food to children. finally, i continue to advocate a strong country of origin principle. television producers should not be subject to additional laws and regulations if they wish to offer their programmes elsewhere in the european union. we must increase the market for european audiovisual products.
president. - thank you, mr špidla, for your active participation in this debate. the potential of the silver economy market for services and products is still not sufficiently understood. in addition to the five in the communication 'the demographic future of europe: the commission has also proposed that the 'silver economy' approach be added as a sixth separate track. do you feel for it? and a suggestion: on 25/26 february, as you said, the regions will meet with the senior citizens' network. are you prepared to consider what this might mean for further adjustment in parliament, for example by organising a hearing with parliament in the course of 2007?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr barroso, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0177/97). we are discussing this today, we could have also chosen to rebuild the esf, for example, but that did not happen. what i think is positive is that this proposal recognizes that globalization has consequences. it has positive effects in that it is the best form of development aid, but it also has negative effects on our own labour markets. we are trying to make up for this with 500 million euros a year, mr president, but that will not be enough. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the many improvements she has made to this proposal over the last few months, and i would like to mention them. firstly, unemployed people in the smaller labour markets can now use the fund, 15% is available for this purpose. secondly: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly: the 50% co-financing has been removed and that is excellent. fourthly: the definition of smes has been extended. fifth: the commission has already proposed that the fund should be used to support the creation of jobs, and that the fund should be used to support the creation of jobs. we can finally decide on the expenditure together with the council. so, i'm happy with the way it's been adjusted; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the people of the region. i thank mrs bachelot, but also my colleagues on the committee on budgets and my own committee on employment and social affairs very warmly for this.
mr. speaker, gender equality is a recurring theme in this house. apart from the fact that it is probably about equal treatment of men and women rather than equality, i think it is too easy to model this subject in the right way with a few big blows. in the last few decades, there has been a lot of attention given to women's rights, both healthy and unhealthy attention. this is not to say that there is no need for special attention in certain areas and in certain regions. the reason for this is that different cultures have had different views of role patterns over the centuries. its traces can still be found in the cultures of countries, including those within the european union. in my view, the need to deal with these differences wisely is necessary to achieve equal treatment of men and women in all countries and member states. i believe that the individual member states have a role to play in this. they are best placed to assess the local situation and take appropriate action. if a member state is not taking enough initiative, there are plenty of national and international organisations to encourage or even force concrete action in this area. in short, mr president, i am very much in favour of equal treatment and equal opportunities for men and women, but i do not see a role for a new european institution at the moment.
on behalf of the pse group president, cars need to be much cleaner, because the air quality is downright bad in many european cities. you can, because the technology is there! tomorrow we will vote on the euro 5 standards which will make diesel cars in particular much cleaner. i thank the rapporteur, matthias groote, for his efforts. the compromise has made a number of important improvements. but i do have some concerns. first of all, i'm not very happy with the procedure. the choice has been made for an agreement at first reading, and that is a procedure with little transparency, with decisions being taken in the back rooms. that would be defensible in a time of great urgency. this was not the case with euro 5, as the standards are only applicable from september 2009. a second reading would therefore have been preferable. we would have had the opportunity to reach a position in plenary before speaking to the council. secondly, i also have mixed feelings about the content. as i have said, i am very pleased with the stricter standards agreed on compared with the commission proposal. i'm not happy with the special treatment for the suvs, though. the commission has already proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. it is precisely these most polluting cars that should and can be subject to strict environmental requirements, and i fully agree with mr belet. i also regret that amendment no 59, which gives member states the possibility of taking further measures, was not included in the compromise package. a large majority of the committee on the environment voted in favour of the amendment. we have included more flexibility in previous legislation and we should allow that in euro 5. within the united states, the state of california has more power to impose stricter environmental requirements on new cars than the member state of the netherlands within the european union's internal market. the single market has become too narrow a barrier for more and more europeans to cope with. moreover, stricter requirements in one or more member states could be a huge incentive for innovation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve air quality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. but when i consider that these standards will not be in force for a few years, i wonder why we are in such a hurry now. euro 5 standards will only apply from 2009 and not even then for all types, that will not be until 2011. the euro 6 standards will not be fully implemented until 2015. i think we should have taken more time to get a better result. i shall therefore support the three amendments tabled by the greens. in several member states, efforts are being made to improve air quality. in order to meet european air quality standards, further measures are being taken. in the netherlands, there has been a desire to introduce euro 5 standards early. the european commission, however, prohibited this because it could disrupt the internal market. i think that this is unacceptable, especially when we consider that the measures are necessary for good air quality. the treaty also allows member states to take more far-reaching measures to protect the environment. i therefore re-submitted amendment no 59 by the committee on the environment to explicitly state that member states may take further measures to meet air quality standards. this amendment was adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment and deserves the support of a large majority in this parliament. i am pleased with the support already pledged by some.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, i will not repeat here how successful enlargement has been so far. that has already been done by many colleagues and also by the commission and the council, and it seems to be a bit of an open door in this house. but it is not an unnecessary luxury in a european union where more and more people are questioning the usefulness and necessity of enlargement. that said, it is nevertheless necessary and, in my view, possible to learn from the way we have done it so far. the commissioner has already mentioned it, and those lessons are in his report and they are also in the reports of this parliament. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. don't give out a date too early, because that's against us and against the process. do not postpone difficult issues until the end and focus more on the execution than on the promise. in the debate on these lessons, the debate on absorption capacity, now called integration capacity, has suddenly emerged in the last year. it is a reaction by some supporters of further enlargement - and i count myself among them - to the fear of participating in that debate, because many opponents of further enlargement have used the concept of integration capacity as an argument against further enlargement. colleagues, let me be clear: the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. let me pick two elements. institutional reforms: i am again a strong supporter of further enlargement with the countries of the western balkans and with turkey, but i too am convinced that this enlargement cannot take place on the basis of the present treaties and that we therefore need fundamental institutional reform. i just think that we should not be arguing in this house about how exactly we should do that. but it has to be done! then the other elements from that discussion about integration capacity. the support of public opinion is crucial. the only way to do this, ladies and gentlemen, is to tell a good story, both to ourselves and to our national colleagues, in which the past is valued and in which the long-term interests of the european union are emphasized. this also requires political leadership and political courage, not looking at every opinion poll on enlargement which may be a little less positive at the moment. all of these elements - courage, political leadership, long-term interests - come together in the debate on turkey. i am therefore very much in favour of the european parliament not joining the wave of populism that is now being seen in some of the debates in europe about turkey. in my country too, i see that those who were in favour of accession two years ago are now suddenly against turkey's accession, because the opinion polls are a little against it. we must not be part of that, not even in this report. so as far as cyprus is concerned - i will speak to mr brok about this - turkey must fulfil its promise, but so must the european union. that is why i am so pleased with the commitment of the foreign ministers to discuss the isolation of northern cyprus next spring. the future of the european union cannot be built on fickleness and fear, and that is certainly true of enlargement.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). europe, previously divided into three economic blocs, had to be rapidly united within the european union. the plan for a limited first enlargement - which included estonia, the czech republic and cyprus but not latvia, slovakia and malta - was then replaced by a large enlargement. romania and bulgaria have been left behind, but they will be joining in three weeks' time. after the promise to welcome all the balkan states which have not yet joined, after the delayed start of negotiations with croatia and turkey and after the short-lived enthusiasm about the possible rapid accession of ukraine, moldova and belarus, there has been a remarkable lull. the negotiations with the applicant country macedonia have not even started. it seems that newcomers are not so welcome these days. governments fear that without a constitution the european union will become increasingly rigid and will have to redistribute more and more money. the public sees that there is a labour migration taking place, with people coming far from home to do dirty and unsafe work and to be poorly paid and housed. the adoption of the services directive has raised fears that good social legislation and good collective agreements in the old member states will have to compete in the near future with poorer arrangements in new or future member states. both the neoliberal policies within the european union and the lack of progress on democratisation and human rights in turkey meanwhile make further enlargement extremely unpopular with public opinion in the current member states. these two accidents force a slowdown and temporary transitional measures. the danger is that states which are temporarily denied access will meanwhile become increasingly dependent on the european union. it can hinder their own choices and their own development. my group wants the equivalence of potential members to be respected during a transitional period and financial support to be given to those who fall behind, in order to facilitate their future accession. we are obliged to the many citizens of our member states who come from the former yugoslavia and turkey to take seriously the desire to join those territories.
president. - mr stubb's report is disappointing for more than one reason. firstly, the report does not contribute in any way to breaking the current institutional impasse in which the union finds itself. the only thing that is the latest position of this house when this report is adopted is the reaffirmation of support for the european constitution and a summary of that constitution in paragraph 9. the lack of vision on the enlargement process is equally disturbing. i come now to my second criticism. paragraph 11 emphasises the need to make efforts to increase public acceptance of enlargement. however, the underlying factors of the declining support for enlargement are completely ignored. this report also maintains the taboo on the finality of the european union. the very lack of political leadership to define the borders of the european union is causing dissatisfaction and uncertainty about the enlargement process. in this report on the institutional aspects of the european union's capacity to integrate new member states, i also lack concrete recommendations on the incorporation of the enlargement process into the treaty. i propose that the various stages of the accession process be laid down in a treaty so that any increase in the status of aspiring members is based on uniform criteria. this will make the enlargement process more transparent and will enable the european parliament to give real substance to its mandate of parliamentary control at all the decisive moments of the accession process.
president. - i also congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr brok and mr stubb, on the excellent work they have done. the fifth enlargement of the european union was without doubt one of the most ambitious projects the european union has ever undertaken. and it's also a point of reference, of course, for the discussion we're having today. this enlargement also forces us to look at the internal functioning of the european union, particularly before embarking on the next round of enlargement; that is why we are here today to discuss the european union's capacity for integration. i would like to say a few words about the criticism of enlargement which is often invoked in the debate we are having. i want to distance myself from that because there are a number of suggestions in that notion of criticism of enlargement which i reject. firstly, that enlargement was a mistake, secondly, that no country can do anything about it, and thirdly, that the internal reforms are necessary mainly because of enlargement. that is not true, it is an intrinsic value, linked to the better functioning of the european union. i keep repeating that the 2004 enlargement was a success and that the enlargement with bulgaria and romania early next year will also be a success. the eu is and remains an open club, it has made commitments to a number of countries and we must keep those commitments. but in any case, the european union must reform to continue to function and also because citizens expect more from the european union. we are indeed returning to the debate on the capacity for integration and the strategy for enlargement in business terms. i think that the reports by mr brok and mr stubb show that the european parliament has succeeded in putting forward in a practical way what we expect, and that practical approach has also been adopted by the european commission. the commission has not yet responded to a number of important questions, as my colleague mr swoboda has already pointed out, but has said 'we will come back to that later'. the first thing we want to do with integration capacity is for the european union to do its homework. the current institutions and the treaty of nice are an inadequate basis for accession of new member states. the responsibility for carrying out the institutional reforms necessary to integrate new countries later lies with us. and that candidate countries are in turn responsible for preparing thoroughly for membership is nothing new. the conditions have been laid down since 1993 in the so-called copenhagen criteria. the european union's integration capacity is obviously important in several respects. we need the institutions for the democratic and effective functioning of the european union and we need a budget that matches the ambitions of the european union; i would also like to say something about the so-called capacity to act, which i believe is of crucial importance. it is also important that the european union, the european commission and the member states take initiatives that respond to the wishes and expectations of the european citizen; they must also be central to communication about the european union. the european union must show what it can do and spread it, because only in this way can we succeed in creating and maintaining support for european cooperation and enlargement. we must not see enlargement as a separate policy area to be pursued separately. enlargement must also be part of the european commission's so-called 'citizens' agenda'. only in the public debate which is being launched on the basis of a better performing europe can we expect citizens to be positive about enlargement in the future. finally, a further comment on turkey, which mr swoboda has already mentioned. our group supports the appointment of commissioner rehn, we think he has made a sensible proposal, we had to react to the fact that turkey is not implementing the ankara protocol. at the same time, we agree with him that we should not slam the door completely. the dialogue must continue, and we support the partial suspension or delay of the negotiations, as you call it. we continue to insist that turkey should comply with its legal obligations towards the european union and at the same time that the debate should not be completely stopped. finally, one more comment: we hope that the commission and the council will take initiatives in the coming year to address the isolation and especially the economic isolation of northern cyprus.
president. - i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mr brok and mr stubb, on their excellent work. enlargement, as many have said, is one of europe's greatest successes! if people think it was self-evident, then we need only think back to yesterday's speaker in this hemisphere, alexandre milinkievitch, who himself has been in prison many times. his son was in prison the last time he was here, hundreds of people are in prison just for fighting for freedom. it could have been very different with eastern europe, and the democratic reforms of all those countries that have joined in such a short time is an amazing achievement. europe can be very proud of that! but, mr president, in order to maintain support for this good enlargement, there must be a balance. it is just like a house, if you keep adding bedrooms on the first and second floors, you also have to strengthen the foundations and that is why it is very important that parliament now has the courage to speak so strongly that we really need a new treaty for the next enlargement. we say that not to the new countries, but above all to ourselves. we must not be too lax, we must do what we have to do now. integration capacity, there's been a lot of talk about it. it is good that the concept is here, but it needs to be developed further. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. but, mr president, integration capacity also requires support from the population, and that is why we must explain that enlargement is a good thing; we have to ask the applicant countries to do certain things and we have to make sure that the citizens of europe support this process by means of convincing reforms. finally, turkey, an explicit sanction was needed, because conditions are there to be met. at the same time, we see that an emphatic, additional signal has come from the council, evaluation moments are being built in; there is a tightening towards turkey; at the same time, there is pressure on us to take care of the affairs of the northern cypriots. i would like to reiterate very emphatically that we support the reformers in turkey. we hope that next year we will see some progress on the cyprus issue and we hope, mr president, that the necessary reforms in turkey itself will be the focus of attention again. i call on the reformers in the field of freedom of expression, freedom of religion, to achieve results now so that this rapporteur can be more positive next year than last year.
mr president, this is not an objection to mr dimitrakopoulos’ proposal, but i would like to add some other words to the same oral amendment. after this morning’s debate, and after the council last monday expressed its support for the renewed un efforts to solve the cyprus problem, i would like to add the following words to the oral amendment made by mr dimitrakopoulos: ‘in close cooperation with renewed un efforts’. (applause)
in writing. the reach dossier is one of the most discussed and lobbied dossiers in the eu's history. both industry and environmental organisations have already expressed criticism of the result. i think that the compromise between the council and parliament is workable and balanced. the agreement reached strikes a good balance between economic interests and environmental concerns. wherever possible, harmful substances should be banned and funds should be made available by industry, provided that the burden is not too heavy for small and mediumsized enterprises. the directive provides for this by encouraging the substitution of dangerous substances by alternatives and by supporting smes in adapting to the new rules. the reduction of animal testing and the improvement of consumer information also make the directive the right step forward. i am convinced that once the dust has settled, many opponents will also gradually come to support the directive.
in writing. unlike the other dutch members of the pse group, i am in favour of amendments nos 170, 156 and 177. these amendments seek to restrict advertising of unhealthy food to children. i have the following arguments for that: 1. within the eu, 1 in 4 children is overweight. the cause is a combination of poor diet and insufficient exercise. overweight children get off to a bad start, both in their social and physical development. research shows that advertising has a powerful influence on consumer and purchasing behavior. the second. there is broad public support for limiting advertising of unhealthy foods. the food centre, the heart foundation and the consumers' association all call for a ban on television advertising of unhealthy food aimed at young children; the results of the food centre and the ad (saturday 2 december) surveys show that almost half of parents are in favour of restricting or banning aggressive advertising. the third. the question is, of course, whether there should be a legal ban or self-regulation. i prefer to go for self-regulation, unless it turns out that codes of conduct are not effective. the question is also whether a restriction or a prohibition should be regulated at national or european level. in any case, i am in favour of the right to do this at national level. we must not allow this television directive to lead to a situation where member states no longer have any say in this matter. the television directive is now before the house for its first reading. it is not a final text at this stage. it is therefore better at this stage to support the amendments which are heading in the right direction and which also offer the best chance of preserving the right of the netherlands to restrict advertising messages. a political statement that puts the health of children above the commercial interests of the food industry.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, mrs lehtomäki gave me an amazing piece of information when she said that she has been aware of the automated targeted system since 2005. i am sure that our colleagues in the united states congress will be very interested, because they learned about it about a month ago and they were outraged that this system has been in place in secret for four years, against the explicit wishes of the united states congress. i would like you to explain that, mrs lehtomäki. secondly, if you have known since 2005, how come the european citizens did not know about it? frankly, this is not only a clear violation of the pnr agreement, but a clear violation of the rights of eu citizens. if i look at the scope of this ats, we are all talking about the fight against terrorism as a justification for collecting these data. well, look at the text of the proposal of the ats. this is for employers who want to screen job applicants; it is for companies who want to do an audit; it is for authorities that give out licences who want to screen applicants. it goes way beyond the fight against terrorism and i find it unacceptable. you rightly inquired of the united states authorities how this ats relates to the pnr agreement. but i think you also owe it to the european public to see that this inquiry is published. the european parliament should get a copy of the letter, and you should make a statement to the press and the european public explaining what is going on with their data. i would like to know, furthermore, if it is correct that pnr data have been fed into the ats since 2002, i.e., two years before the pnr agreement. i would also like to know whether, at the two informal meetings held on 6 november and 13 december, i.e. today, this has been discussed; whether you got an answer from the united states authority; i would like to know if data protection was on the agenda and if so, on what basis. i would also like to get an answer from both the commission and the council as to whether, in the future, the european parliament and the united states congress will be part of the high-level contact group. i would also like to know if the council and commission are aware of similar databases or programmes in other countries. suppose, for example, that not our american friends but the russians were to start such a programme, what would we do? i also think that these cases demonstrate clearly the need not only for a european arrangement for data protection, but a global standard that would protect not just the passenger data but also our bank data, our telecommunications data and heaven knows what other data. finally, on pnr specifically, could the commission and the council confirm that the push system will be tested, as agreed, before the end of this month? could they also tell me – because i have been travelling to the united states recently and as a passenger have not been informed at all about the pnr programme or about my rights – whether you can confirm that information will be provided to passengers? a final question, can the council confirm that the european parliament will be formally consulted on the mandate for the future pnr agreement?
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, on behalf of the green group. it is indeed quite a strong statement that you have made here, that you have actually been aware of this system for more than a year. i wonder whether this was indeed discussed in the council and whether the european commission was aware of it. i also want to know what effect this has had on the pnr discussion? i understand that some of the pnr data is being used for the new system. for the pnr system, a deadline for the storage of data has been agreed with great difficulty. so now that data is used in a new system and then stored for 40 years. so i wonder if that's included. anyway, there's a lot of weird stuff going on, including that pnr data. we have all agreed on the maximum storage, on the limited definition for which they can be used. and then there's a side letter, a letter from the americans saying, "oh what the hell, if we can use it for other things, we'll use it for other risks, if we want to use more than those 34 fields of information, we'll use it". the council's only answer is: yes, but we still want human rights to be respected and you don't say anything about the current status of that letter. do you think that letter is really for nothing, or is it the letter about how the americans are going to use that data anyway? i'd like to hear your thoughts on the status of that letter. and you are only asking for a formal confirmation, as the commission says, to say that it is now formally confirmed. the bush administration will no doubt say that they are following all the rules. will you now also look at whether it is technically possible that pnr data can be stored for such a limited period of time? will you see if that's possible? i don't think that's possible in that system at all. i do want to look at the pnr mandate, because that will have to be written in the coming months and i hope that it will be discussed here in parliament. in conclusion: i have heard that there is also bilateral talk between the united states and a number of member states about a new pnr agreement. if that is true, then we are, of course, undermining ourselves completely, because then the united states will make a deal with a country that is most accommodating to them, and then the rest can join in. has this been discussed in the council and can you confirm to me that there will be no bilateral agreement between the united states and any eu member state?
mr president, i am especially curious. madam president-in-office, you say that you are now worried about the fact that there might be incompatibilities between the new system and the pnr, but you also said that you have known about the system since 2005. the new pnr agreement is from after that date, so why were you not worried about it when you knew about it but were still making an agreement with the us?
mr president, i note with regret that once again the council has not replied to a single question. i would like to receive replies to my questions in writing and i would like to know now whether we can get the text of the council’s inquiry and whether the council will inform european citizens about it.
president, the finnish presidency has taken the initiative of holding secret talks with all the member states on what they want to do with the constitution now and the result will be discussed at the next summit. there is no legitimate reason why such discussions cannot be held in public. the intention is apparently to continue printing this document in back rooms, now that the constitution has been rejected in public debates in the netherlands and france. a month ago, only parties opposed to the european constitution won the dutch elections. according to opinion polls, even more dutch people would now vote against the constitution. the council, the commission and this parliament seem unable to accept that, and it is a scandal that will continue to undermine the eu's reputation.
president. - commissioner rehn said a few weeks ago that he did not want another turkey summit like in 2004-05 and in that respect the council meeting last monday was a great success. the european ministers agreed to suspend talks on a number of negotiating chapters. this decision is in line with the recommendation of the european commission which our group has previously welcomed. it sends a clear signal to turkey that implementation of the ankara agreement is a non-negotiable part of the accession process. and the failure to fully implement the additional protocol will inevitably have repercussions on the progress of the negotiating process. there has never been any ambiguity on this point and it is therefore up to the turkish government to take a more constructive approach to this matter. at the same time, the council's decision makes it clear that the negotiating process can and must continue. it is vital to keep the dialogue going and it will require a constructive attitude on both sides to ensure that the accession process is not delayed or completely drowned in mutual suspicion. we will not therefore have a summit on turkey, but i hope that the leaders who will be there tomorrow and the day after will realize that the door to turkey is open and must remain open and that an extra effort will be needed on the part of the commission and the council to do something about the economic isolation of the turkish cypriots. any progress in this area will also help to get the ankara protocol file back on track.
president of the council. mr president, special envoy ahtisaari has made it clear to the council that he has no intention of delaying the presentation of the draft resolution until after the elections in january. i would not, however, like to anticipate the content of the proposal for a status settlement by the special envoy.
president of the council. mr president, the council has never discussed this matter because it does not fall within the council's competence. the treaties of the european union do not confer on the community or on the union any competence to regulate abortion within the union. the member states are therefore competent to lay down the relevant rules and to ensure that the measures they adopt are complied with within their territory. in areas outside the european union's competence, the eu cannot intervene in cases of maladministration resulting from differences in the legislation of the member states.
i understand, mr president, that this is a question of competence, but it is a cross-border question, and i am therefore surprised that it has not been discussed in the council. if we talk about european values - this case has also been extensively reported in the news - and we also look at the question of the free movement of persons, then there is a european problem here, especially if we take into account that dutch doctors have been involved in this affair. in short, how does this relate to the free movement of persons and is there any cross-border european problem here?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). one is driving licence tourism, which allows people who are not entitled to drive to have a driving licence. the other is the dangerous situation for riders of two-wheelers in the middle of heavy car traffic. we could solve the second problem at national level, but not the first. we have long known that driving lessons are taken during holidays and that afterwards in the middle east or the caribbean a driving licence is issued which does not meet the requirements we have at home. it is even worse when someone whose driving licence has been revoked as a punishment for a serious traffic offence or reckless driving is given the opportunity to take a new driving test in another member state of the european union. the mutual recognition of national driving licences may then allow him or her to regain the right to drive a car in his or her own country despite the earlier revocation. such persons abuse the existence of state borders and pose a serious threat to road safety. it is a key task of the european union to combat crossborder nuisance and miscommunication, and the situation with regard to driving licences is one of them. it is very important to make it clear that the member states of residence are no longer prevented in any way from countering this dangerous abuse. the text now proposed as a result of the second reading rightly offers that possibility. more controversial is the way in which attention has been paid to accidents involving motorcyclists and mopeds. often it is young people who are either the victims themselves or the cause of an accident for others. some new riders of these two-wheelers want to be able to proudly show others that they are capable of life-threatening stunts. it is right that we try to protect potential accident-makers from themselves and also to protect other road users from the reckless behaviour of a few. but there's another side to this case. motorists and motorcyclists are rightly suspected of wanting the road for themselves. and that's why they'd rather lose the bikers than be rich. motorcyclists feel that it is discriminatory to require them to meet stricter requirements than motorists and, in practice, to be older before they can make their first legal ride. it is only at the age of 24 that one can get the right to ride the heaviest motorcycles without intermediate steps. this leads to conflicts of interest between young and old and between armored four-wheelers and unarmed two-wheelers. my group would like to support the most vulnerable group, the two-wheelers, but in countries with aggressive motorists this could lead to unnecessarily more victims falling within that group. perhaps we could better manage the solution of this sensitive problem on a member state-by-member state basis, but in an age of increasing cross-border traffic, it is becoming difficult to enforce it. three years of discussion on the proposal to harmonise national driving licences has so far resulted in the greatest common denominator of wishes of different member states and interest groups. not all those involved, such as motorcycle riders' organisations, are satisfied with this. the practical experience we will gain from this directive and the possible problems it may cause will probably give rise to amendments. however, my group believes that this proposal is better than continuing the present situation. the alternative advocated by mr bradbourn may work well in the splendid isolation of britain, but not for member states with land borders running through densely populated areas.
mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mr grosch on a good result. in the negotiations with the council, he succeeded in getting many points of parliament’s position included in the final compromise. thus, in addition to the euro – our european currency – we will get a european driving licence. this will finally end driving licence tourism: if your licence is taken away in one country, you will be unable to get a new one in another country. it is also very good that fraud will be reduced, as we have succeeded in getting a limited period of validity from the member states. it is a pity for mr jarzembowski and other german colleagues, but it is good for road safety in europe. a compromise always means you win some and you lose some. it would have been fairer on the motorcyclists if they could get access to heavy motorcycles at the age of 21 instead of 24. you can drive a big suv or a ferrari when you are only 18 years old but, under this proposal, you have to wait another six years to get direct access to heavy motorcycles. that is disproportionate. if the commissioner really wants to do something about the safety of motorcyclists, he should improve research in that area and take measures based on that research. it will become clear that, in addition to good driving education, we need to improve our infrastructure – with better crash-barriers, for example – in order to improve safety for motorcyclists. finally, i am pleased about the introduction of extra possibilities for drivers with a category ‘b’ licence to tow heavy trailers. therefore, i strongly support this new directive for a european driving licence.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0414/97-97/016 (cns)) (rapporteur: mr de gucht). the problems were underestimated and the costs of change were given the most attention. it took the oil tanker disasters and the widespread destruction of the marine and coastal environment to make europe realize that it must not be left behind but must be at the forefront. single-hull tankers for heavy oil are dangerous and must be phased out as soon as possible. it was only after an american ban and the threat that all old tankers would be moved from america to europe that a majority for such a policy of extinction was formed here. unfortunately, the 2002 regulation is not yet clear enough. it is still possible that single-hull tankers flying the european flag, in particular 20 ancient greek tankers, are causing disasters in other parts of the world. this hole needs to be filled. europe does not want to have single-hull tankers of other countries in its ports, but we should not want to send single-hull tankers to the ports of other countries either. the freedom for existing single-hull tankers to continue to carry heavy oil until 2015 could pose major problems. that problem is not going to be solved now, but it's good that we're tackling the other problem now. the objections raised by the shipowners' association intertanko and the greek member state should be subordinated to the protection of our marine, coastal and port environment. the confederal group of the european united left/nordic green left supports this proposal also at second reading.
president. - i would like to congratulate mrs eluned morgan on her courageous and determined approach. i think it is good that we have three things to say today. firstly, that the climate problem deserves the highest priority. secondly, we are now seeing that the liberalization has not brought much good to consumers, that compliance with european rules is lacking and that the directive on tradable emission allowances needs to be amended in a number of respects. before we can ever speak of a common energy policy, compliance and implementation must be greatly improved. this is a task for the commission, but also for ourselves. we will have to constantly challenge the commission on the enforcement of european rules. thirdly, we must invest heavily in efficiency, renewable energy and innovative research in the coming years. we must put an end to subsidies for polluting energy. and renewable energy must be supported where necessary. so far, billions are still going to dirty energy, especially coal and nuclear, and we really need to stop that. i also welcome the report by mr werner langen on biofuels. it is important that europe should opt for mandatory blending for both petrol and diesel. targeted intervention is needed to ensure that biofuels do not lead to the clearing of rainforests and the loss of biodiversity or compete with the food supply.
in writing. the epp-ed group is keen that the council not only adopts a framework decision on data protection which takes due account of the opinion of the european parliament, but that it does so soon, as it undertook to do at the time of the adoption of both the sis ii package and the eu-pnr agreement. we believe strongly that a strong framework decision will greatly facilitate the adoption of the vis package. however, while we consider it highly desirable that a framework decision be adopted soon, we agree with the statement of the rapporteur that the adoption of the decision cannot be construed as a sine qua non for future work. the epp-ed group will do everything in its power to prove responsible and loyal partners in the legislative process.
author. president, countries ruled by rulers who derive their power not from their voters but from their machinery of violence can be extremely attractive to foreign investors. they are taking advantage of low wages, poor working conditions and a population that has no opportunity to protest. moreover, there can be no free movement to defend nature and the environment against short-sighted decisions that can increase the short-term profits of the company. if their main objective is to keep the cost of their business low and to take advantage of that low cost in the international market, they have been in the right place in burma for many years. such international support has enabled the military regime to defy domestic protests in its early years. since a number of major companies have pulled out of burma under pressure from protests in their home country, it has been quiet. the regime accepts the low living standards and criticism from outside as inevitable, without changing. the outcome of the elections continues to be ignored, the opposition leader is being detained and minority peoples are being oppressed and driven away as usual. international aid agencies are being opposed. this regime has not even managed to build its own political support and now serves no purpose other than its own preservation. without the isolation of burma by its neighbours, without a halt to arms supplies and without strong compliance with economic sanctions in the european union, this regime will be able to survive for an unnecessary long time. the resolution supports the measures which my group has been calling for for years and we are therefore happy to support it.
president. - i thank the finnish presidency for the good cooperation it has shown on the development instrument. we talked about reach, and we talked about the framework programme, a 17 billion dollar bill for the next few years around the millennium development goals; i'm very grateful for the way we've done that to each other. i have two questions. firstly, darfur, as my colleagues crowley and watson have also pointed out, it is somewhere intolerable that we in darfur find that these human rights violations are getting worse and worse and that we are unable to act effectively. i ask you once again to look at a special un initiative and to promote such an initiative. secondly, the enlargement: you say yes to enlargement, but you also make demands on the treaty. be clear about this. say, we need to be more democratic and effective before we can expand. we'd like to expand, but we need those requirements. be clear and show leadership in that, because otherwise it becomes and remains a creep-through-creep-through method, and that's not effective.
president. - i would also like to thank the finnish presidency. i have a question about relations with russia. trade is currently facing major problems, especially in the agricultural sector, because of veterinary or phytosanitary concerns. does the commission think that there are technical reasons for this or is there a political reason behind it, and if so, what is the commission going to do about it?
