mr. chairman, please! an investigation in poland has revealed that the perpetrator of the accident which killed six people, including the member of the european parliament, dr filip adwent, had amphetamine in his blood at the time of the accident, which affected his ability to drive a truck. i recall this tragic incident in the context of the recent report of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in europe, which shows that drug addiction is one of the most serious threats, developing especially among the younger generation, which is a threat, as we see, not only to addicts but to entire societies. how many more lives must be lost, both those of addicts and victims, like our colleague, before the european commission, parliament and national parliaments react by creating restrictive anti-drug legislation, rather than, as they have done so far, by documents which protect the free market more than precious human life. i appeal to all those who are in the legal profession to ensure that the conclusions of the report on the effectiveness of the fight against drug addiction and restrictive provisions are reflected in both community and national law.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the violation of human rights by german officials and courts. the problem is the poles who divorced their german spouses. they are treated as pedophiles in each case the courts give the children to german parents, assuming in advance the superiority of the german language and culture over the polish. "germans of original origin", "children of german origin" - these words were used in nuremberg by criminals accused of germanizing polish children. similar words are used today by jugendamt officials to justify german bans on polish parents meeting their children. if they do meet, they are strictly forbidden to speak polish, and the children are taught that anything polish is bad. jugendamt claims that the polish language has a negative impact on their upbringing. it's a racist assumption. in history, we have only ever seen a proper german upbringing. is this what german respect for human rights looks like? this is a violation of one of the fundamental principles of the european union, which promotes the linguistic and cultural diversity of its citizens.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to refer to the demonstration of port workers today against the draft directive on access to services. dockers from both the old and new states demonstrated. i personally represent west pomerania, including ports like szczecin and świnoujście. i, like our political group, am against the draft directive we are considering. but something went wrong in the commission, because the draft was presented at the last minute despite: the lack of social support, the rejection by the parliament of the previous term, finally despite the lack of convincing evidence of the rightness of such a regulation. i would very much like this commission and commissioner barrot personally not to make the same mistakes in any sector of the economy.
mr. chairman, please! i too support mr liberadzki's opposition to the port directive, although i would prefer it to be a battle of arguments rather than of stones. two french policemen were seriously injured today. i wanted to say something else. the recent gas crisis between ukraine and russia has demonstrated the need for a common energy policy. a situation in which individual countries are left to look after their own energy security - gas, oil, electricity - can be risky. it is therefore necessary to establish real cooperation and a common approach in this area. it is not about excessive, bureaucratic unification, but about a common awareness of the aims and threats of the members of the european union. our national justified and understandable economic actions should be seen in the broader context of political, geopolitical and security policy. this is also the task facing the european parliament and it is good that the president of parliament has decided that we should record the statements of the council and the commission in this respect.
the commission's vice-president mr president, the community's competence to take the necessary measures to combat discrimination, and in particular discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, is based on article 13 of the ec treaty. the commission also recalls that the prohibition of such discrimination is explicitly enshrined in article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights. on this basis, the commission, within the framework of its powers, is and will be making every effort to combat homophobia firmly. combating discrimination based on sexual orientation is an essential element in the fight against homophobia. directive 2000/78/ec establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation, which covers all types of discrimination referred to in article 13, is a concrete example of this action and the commission is monitoring and will monitor the implementation of this directive in the member states. the commission is nevertheless aware that legislative action must be accompanied by other initiatives to combat de facto discrimination, humiliating practices, prejudice and stereotypes. let me mention two specific actions undertaken by the commission: the first action is an information campaign, launched in 2003, entitled 'for diversity against discrimination', which is currently underway and aims to promote a positive image of diversity and to inform the public about anti-discrimination laws. gay rights organisations are among the partners in this action and several initiatives have been undertaken, such as an information campaign and raising public awareness of the discrimination suffered by gay people. the second initiative is part of the recent proposal to make 2007 the european year of equal opportunities for all. the objectives will be to inform the public of their rights, to promote diversity as an asset and an opportunity for the union, and to promote equal opportunities for all, whether in economic, social, cultural or political life. the commission considers that organisations fighting discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation will be able to benefit greatly from the latter action. the fact remains that the union and the commission can only act within the limits of the powers conferred on them by the treaty. for example, the commission may initiate possible infringement proceedings against a member state, but only if a violation of fundamental rights is found in the context of the application of community law. but beyond the union's competence, it is the responsibility of the member states to take the necessary measures to combat homophobia. in any event, whether the situations are within or outside the framework of community law, it is clear that the commission absolutely condemns any manifestation or expression of homophobia.
mr. chairman, please! i am also against sex discrimination, but we should be careful about giving more and more rights to homosexuals. i'm glad that today's discussion is happening. the rights of homosexuals must be defended wherever possible. not long ago, homosexuality was removed from the world health organization's list of pathologies. i'm all for it. i don't know if it's a good idea to legalize gay marriage. they may be supported because of the inheritance law, but homosexual couples cannot be allowed to adopt children it is distasteful, shocking, scandalous and there is no proper psychological research to say that this is normal. (laughter)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. certainly in europe we have cases where homosexuals are victims of violence or of neglect by the police. we can check the reports on these issues. but, despite that, i can't shake the feeling that this debate is largely a waste of time. i think it's because it would be better to restore the balance in this dispute. to restore proportions and avoid hysteria in describing this situation. it is only hysteria to describe the situation of homosexuals in europe through the prism of resistance, arrests and war, as was the case in the speech of the representative of the socialist club. i wanted to mention two facts, first, that violence against homosexuals is only a fraction of the violence that exists in our societies very broadly. this is the experience of every eu country. we have an illustration from today and we had an illustration in france a few months ago, it's a fragment of a very large whole. there's another aspect. each eu country, old or new, has its own legal institutions that have proven effective in protecting the rights of minorities, i mean courts, civil rights advocates, and ultimately public opinion. if we were to go into legal discussions, we would run into a whole bunch of problems and barriers in the form of treaty law, and we would happily not change that. there is no consensus in europe to change treaty law to give the union competence in such important matters as the recognition of the consequences of homosexual unions outside the country of registration. so there's no reason to activate the union on a matter like homophobia, but there's one consequence of activating the union on this matter. the consequence is that the authority of the integration process is weakened, which is today being used by some circles for ideological warfare. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! i think it is reasonable to ask whether politicians should even deal with the subject of homophobia in europe in the way that mrs buitenweg has done. do we have the right to impose our voters on their way of thinking, to instruct them on how to deal with the issue of sexism, including sexual minorities? i believe that sexuality is an intimate matter of every human being and each one uses it according to his own morality, religion, culture, as well as the customs of his environment. we cannot therefore expect the european parliament to expect universal approval of homosexuality in europe. let's remember that there are countries with more conservative norms of behavior, and there are countries with more tolerant norms. but even in the most tolerant countries, like the netherlands and france, there are cases of assault and beatings of homosexuals. just to mention the case of gasoline pouring and burning of a gay man, sebastien nouched in france, so while we're talking about this phenomenon, we should focus on how to avoid escalating homophobic hatred towards homosexuals. but we will not avoid escalating this hatred if we cannot find a balance between protecting the right to privacy of one's sexuality and infringing on the right to express it. so i want to make it clear that if any minority feels the need to manifest its difference, then of course it can use this freedom to manifest, and no minority should be discriminated against in such a case. in poland, there is a system of judicial and constitutional bodies, including the ombudsman, which safeguard this freedom and european law. but the bans on homosexual demonstrations that have taken place have been incidental. in closing, i would like to emphasize that the law should serve both the majority and the sexual minority. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the recent intolerant behaviour in my country, poland, which often calls for violence against people because of their sexual orientation, and the lack of adequate response from the state authorities to this behaviour and other manifestations of homophobia. examples include the banning of the equality marches in warsaw and poznań and the non-implementation of measures provided for in polish law against groups calling for intolerance and violence against people working for equal rights for all, regardless of their sexual orientation. we are dealing with the toleration by the authorities of de facto political banditry towards the gay, lesbian and bisexual communities. on january 13th, the trial of robert biedron, head of the campaign against homophobia, began in elbląg on charges of insulting catholics, although biedron stresses that his intention was not to insult catholicism or equate catholicism with fascism. it is worth noting that the same prosecutor's office refused to open a case for insulting homosexuals after an article in "our journal" which stated that "homosexuality is a disease and a threat to the family".
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. the strategy to prevent trafficking in women and children should address the various causes identified in the report, such as poverty, unemployment, social exclusion, lack of education, corruption and violence. but above all, we should consider a change in mentality and politics from a liberal mentality, which legalizes, within the framework of the principles of the free market, various depravities, addictions or prostitution, which are based on the treatment of man in terms of hedonism and utility, to a civilization of life that promotes ethical values in which man is treated with due dignity. the basis of social pathology is also the crisis of a healthy moral family, a family that does not fulfill its role. in dysfunctional families, children who are left to fend for themselves adopt the patterns promoted by the media. they learn a consumerist lifestyle, where goals and activities are reduced to economic gain, with a roused rule of success, a competition between men and women who, instead of cooperating, fight each other for power and influence, which becomes a source of frustration and various pathologies. the reason for the violence and sexual abuse of women and children is the spread, not only in the media, of "pansexuality", which, together with the so-called sexual education, fosters the urge to reach psychophysical maturity that requires behavioral control, shaping a man functioning only on the level of primitive instincts and intellect without empathy and spiritual development.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr el khadraoui and mr zīle very warmly for their work and for the spirit of cooperation which has guided our work. i also thank the members of the committee on transport and tourism for their commitment to this important debate. i would point out, mr president, that this debate is timely, even though i have to prepare new air agreements during the course of 2006. it was very desirable that parliament should inform me of the community's external policy in the field of air transport. these two reports are indeed an important contribution to the interinstitutional dialogue on community action in this field. the community has, over the last 20 years, seen its responsibilities in the air transport sector increase. member states have removed the boundaries of their national markets to form a single market - the community market - which is now based on a comprehensive set of common rules, including in areas such as safety, security or air traffic management. this community of law forms the basis of a market which has grown in importance over the years. we now have 600 million passengers and 60 million tonnes of goods carried annually. the transition from a bilateral approach between states to agreements negotiated at community level offers new and considerable prospects thanks to the opportunities offered by the large european market and the community's possibilities for cooperation. it is also this shift from a bilateral to a community approach which is a legal necessity for our regulatory acquis in the air transport sector to be recognised and respected. mr el khadraoui's report deals with a number of key problems in our policy. firstly, the importance of moving towards the regularisation of bilateral agreements which, since the court's judgments, have been subject to legal uncertainty. mr el khadraoui, we are engaged in this task alongside the member states, in a spirit of close cooperation and using all the levers offered by the european union's external policy. secondly, you have stressed, and i thank you for this, the need to always respect this dual objective: opening up markets, regulatory convergence. this priority given to regulatory convergence allows us to develop our international activities and the international activities of our industry, in conditions of fair and healthy competition. we must pursue these two paths inseparably. this is a guarantee of the community's effectiveness and credibility in the negotiations. finally, this regulatory cooperation should be based as much as possible on technical cooperation to ensure a high level of convergence in such crucial areas as safety and security. but also, of course, in the environmental and social problems which are part of our european social model. with parliament's support, we will continue to ask for new negotiating mandates. the integration of ukraine into the european area, an agreement with australia and chile, the launch of negotiations with china and india - these will be the priorities for 2006. china and russia are the subject of two commission communications on which mr zīle's report is based. i shall begin with russia and the question of the flyover of siberia. i thank you for your support on this matter and for your very justified demand. we are determined to put an end to these tax levies which are clearly outside all international rules and before we consider a comprehensive air agreement with russia we must resolve this specific issue also taking into account russia's wish to join the wto. i've been stepping up the pace of negotiations with the russian government over the last few months. the issue was raised at the eu-russia summit in october following a letter from president barroso to president putin. i have had two meetings with the russian minister for transport, mr igor levitin, during which i have stressed the urgency of a solution. we are very firm in our position, we are asking the russian government to establish a transparent and non-discriminatory system and to gradually reduce levies until 2013, the date agreed in 2004 between the russian government and the commission. finally, we call for the abolition of quantitative restrictions on european airlines flying over siberia. if the russian government does not react sufficiently at this stage, we must bring this matter up again at all levels. this issue must be resolved before russia joins the wto. as regards china, a growing market, the advantages of a community approach are clear, as mr zīle has shown. the prospect of an agreement with china is essential for european operators in the long term. but our approach to china must be gradual and orderly, in order to strengthen our cooperation while developing a level of regulatory convergence acceptable to our industry. the first phase of negotiations must necessarily be devoted to improving the regulatory framework and the conditions for commercial exploitation. our companies are suffering from unjustified restrictions that must be lifted immediately. these aspects of doing business will be our priority. in any case, mr president, i should like to thank the european parliament very much for its contribution to the success of this great negotiation which will enable the european union to expand the possibilities of its air transport industry, an industry which, i believe, has had the merit of creating jobs in europe and of showing us the face of a particularly dynamic europe and a europe where the development of transport is accompanied by a high level of safety and a high quality of transport. i would like to thank mr el khadraoui, mr zīle and your committee once again.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to say that we have two very good reports, both by mr zile and mr el khadraoui - thank you very much. it is also good that we are considering these reports together. it gives a picture of our policy towards civil aviation in general, and two very important areas, namely china and russia. areas of great economic, political and demographic importance, as well as areas of great aviation growth. what mr el khadraoui has presented to us provides the basis for a unified european union aviation policy towards the outside world. it makes the union stronger. we're happy to welcome it as a group. mr zile stressed in his report that our parliamentary committee had not previously been aware of the negotiating mandate. commissioner, there will be a request for more openness from parliament on the negotiating mandates. the position on russia which is contained here is what we regard as the 'friendlyly categorical' position of parliament and i am glad that the commissioner has also taken this approach. we fully support the requirements regarding quality of service standards, environmental protection, technical equipment of airports and air traffic control, including safety issues. we are categorically against charging for flights over siberia. we also believe that we should resolve this issue in conjunction with other issues that we will be negotiating with russia. we stress, also with regard to russia and china, that we need the principle of reciprocity, especially in those areas where we are talking about the principles of common, comparable competitiveness of eu aviation, as well as russian and chinese operators. i am therefore in favour of adopting both reports, of thanking the rapporteurs for their work and of noting with satisfaction that the commission's position, that of the commissioner and that of parliament are very much the same.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank both rapporteurs for their work. i congratulate you. it is good that the union programme covering community aviation takes account of economic, technical, legal, social and environmental aspects, without forgetting safety conditions. and we see how important these things are, especially when there's an emergency, a terrorist threat, or bad weather, or a strike. i would add that in such a situation, passengers cannot be treated as a necessary evil, which is unfortunately the case today. briefly some issues signal. in the context of open skies, i consider it appropriate to increase the number of airports in the european union from which international air transport takes place. this will greatly facilitate the movement of people and goods. where appropriate, union funds should support the modernisation of airports. i'm glad to hear about this. second, the union citizen should benefit from a similar level of check-in services at each airport. this also applies to the culture of service. similar conditions should be expected in external relations. thirdly, as we said a few weeks ago, disabled people should be able to travel by air in suitable conditions, even outside the union. fourthly, the community as a whole should negotiate such matters as the fees for flights over the territory of russia. they should be abolished as soon as possible. fifthly, i suggest that all aircraft used by airlines in the member states of the union, regardless of where they are manufactured, should have similar technical solutions for passenger safety. in conclusion, i would say that carriers should be encouraged to cooperate more closely, including price and timing flexibility, because the point is to make the passenger feel that he is the subject of the carrier's activities and not, at times, a cumbersome individual cargo.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the events of the first week of january in connection with the gas dispute between the russian federation and ukraine have made it very clear to us that we cannot take security of energy supply for granted. more than a quarter of the european union's gas consumption is covered by imports from russia. up to 80% of these are transported via ukraine. therefore, the uninterrupted and continuous transport of gas from russia through ukraine to the european union is essential for households and businesses. in fact, however, some eu member states experienced delivery failures of up to 50% on 1 and 2 january this year. the european commission and the austrian presidency have taken a diplomatic initiative to help bring these failures to a speedy end. in this context, i would also like to address the problems between moldova and russia and ask both partners to seek a longer-term solution at the negotiating table. according to media reports, there's an agreement for a three-month period. but that's certainly very short-term. now it is time to learn the right lessons from the events. in my view, the following three measures are necessary to ensure the long-term security of europe's natural gas supply: first, diversification of sources and transport routes for natural gas. a number of new pipeline projects with a total transport capacity of 140 billion m3 per year are being planned. these projects must be implemented quickly. the nabucco pipeline from austria to the caspian sea via turkey is a promising project. this 3 300 km gas pipeline could, at the final stage of construction around 2020, transport up to 31 billion m3 of natural gas on a new route to the european union. secondly, the promotion of the use of liquefied natural gas (lng). the current capacity of existing plants is about 60 billion m3 per year. in some countries, projects are under way to build new terminals or to extend existing facilities. by 2010, capacity can be expected to increase to 160 billion m3 per year. the european union should aim to increase imported lng volumes by fivefold by 2010. this will also open up other supply regions to the european union, which cannot be connected by pipeline. thirdly, increased transparency in the hydrocarbon markets in order to reduce the high price volatility and to ensure stable, market-reflecting prices and better information on imported natural gas volumes. the key to this is considerable investment. in order to ensure that companies are prepared to make these investments, it is essential to create the most favourable investment climate possible in the energy sector. in the short term, we will have to think about how to avoid similar situations or how to overcome them without consequences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the electricity supply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the gas industry in the community. the increase in the intra-community exchange of gas naturally requires the availability of the necessary gas volumes, which is why we must also make efforts to support the establishment of liquid wholesale markets. another instrument in the short term is certainly the maintenance of gas stocks to bridge two-month supply gaps, taking into account national specificities such as storage in geological cavities or storage at power plants or industrial plants. the austrian presidency will focus on energy policy and in particular on the security of energy supplies. security of supply is one of the three pillars, along with competitiveness and, of course, sustainability of european energy policy, at national and community level. europe needs to do more to meet the energy challenges: globally, we're going to have 50% more energy consumption by 2030. europe's dependence on fossil fuel imports will increase significantly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. within the european community we will have to increase the diversification of energy supply through increased use of renewable energy sources, for example by tripling the use of biomass by 2010. the cost-effective use of renewable energy sources is to become a mainstay of europe's energy supply. the use of clean coal and, in the long term, the use of hydrogen will also be an option for europe. from the austrian point of view, however, the use of nuclear energy is not an option. overall, it will be necessary on the supply side to continue the efforts towards a common european internal market and to increase investment in energy supply. on the consumer side, it will be necessary to improve energy efficiency in the community. there are currently large differences between member states in energy efficiency, measured as energy consumption per unit of gross domestic product. in this context, we can jointly refer to the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on the directive on energy end-use efficiency and energy services. the events of new year's day have also shown the importance of the european union's relations with its partners. these partnerships should be pursued consistently at multilateral level for example through dialogues in the international energy forum or in the framework of the energy treaty with south-eastern europe and at bilateral level in the framework of the european union-russia or european union-opec dialogue . the willingness to cooperate is a very important element in securing energy supplies. so we have a wealth of options. it is up to us to use them effectively and quickly. as a secure energy future for the european union is in the interest of all member states, i am convinced that we will succeed. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank parliament for finding time today to debate the security of energy supplies and particularly gas. in a way, it is a continuation of the debate we had on high oil prices last year. the current price of oil is more than usd 60 per barrel. the gas dispute between ukraine and russia triggered the debate on the security of supply to the european union. the gas dispute hit the headlines at the beginning of this year when russia stopped its supply to ukraine for a day and a half. that also had an impact on the eu through a reduction in the amount of gas reaching the european union. while it is reassuring in the short term that an agreement was reached between ukraine and russia, we must be under no illusions. the issue has not gone away. commercial negotiations between the two sides will continue in order to find a price adjustment formula that is mutually acceptable. we have also seen the repercussions internally in ukraine, with the vote of no confidence in the government last week. nor must we forget that the gas price dispute between russia and moldova was resolved only yesterday, with more detailed negotiations in the near future. i firmly believe that everyone needs to learn the lessons from the events at the beginning of the year. so, what are the lessons the eu should draw from this dispute? firstly, in the context of this particular dispute, the eu was, and should be, proactive. we not only maintained close bilateral contacts with both parties throughout the dispute but also urged them to resolve this dispute. while it is evident that the eu could not and should not take sides, we made it clear to both sides that it was in their strong interest to come to an agreement rapidly. in such a situation it is very important to have close cooperation between the council – in particular the presidency – and the commission. secondly, the dispute has underlined the usefulness of the energy dialogues with russia and ukraine. those dialogues have provided us with the contacts necessary to impress our concerns and views upon both parties in a framework of mutual trust and common interest. at the same time, it clearly underlines the need to give greater momentum to dialogue. thirdly, this dispute has underlined the importance of and the need for a clearer, more cohesive and proactive eu-wide energy security policy. while it is true that the commission and parliament have argued for this for many years, the time is now right to make real progress on this. i should like to stress the importance of developing a common approach to energy, which was highlighted at the hampton court informal summit and in the meeting between the presidency and the commission at the start of the austrian presidency. in his speech today, the president-in-office clearly indicated the importance the presidency attaches to this particular issue and that many concrete and clear proposals have been made. during the crisis we witnessed a certain lack of transparency in the european gas market that has made it quite challenging to monitor and assess accurately how this shortfall was being handled. the 2004 directive concerning measures to safeguard the security of gas supplies, once fully transposed, should assist. addressing those kinds of issues is one of the objectives of the energy market observation system which is under development in my services. more generally, this incident has thrown into sharp focus our increasing dependency on external energy supply. the necessity of adopting and developing a common eu approach will be addressed in a green paper on energy policy that the commission is currently preparing. clearly, the development of a common approach to the external energy dimension will be a fundamental element in the green paper. this external energy dimension should be based on a diversification of different energies, as well as on different energy sources, routes, suppliers and transit networks. there is a clear need for more investment in lng terminals, in gas pipelines for diversification of supplies and gas storage facilities. while the eu has been engaged, via its technical assistance programmes, in promoting the development of new supply routes, and upgrading and enhancing existing routes, it is clear that other major energy consumers also take a very proactive and political approach to this issue. europe will have to learn some lessons here, although one should not underestimate the complexity of this task. there are also, of course, the internal aspects of an eu energy policy to consider: firstly, the need to ensure that an internal eu-wide energy market is a practical reality. there is still some way to go to achieve a real internal market in both electricity and gas. then there is the need to facilitate the necessary infrastructure investments required to ensure that the various national energy markets in the eu can really become more integrated. here it is important for us all to recognise that this calls for the necessary means also to be provided including, where necessary, financial support. we also need to ensure that sufficient policy and financial support is given to research in priority areas and to ensure that more efficient energy technologies, including cleaner coal and renewable energy technologies, can penetrate the market. we need more actively to pursue policies and measures that can achieve real energy savings and efficient use of energy and thus diminish our external dependency. we have adopted ambitious legislation. now it is time to implement it. finally, we need to improve energy security measures to enhance the solidarity mechanisms to face the challenges of possible disruptions to energy supplies. one should keep in mind that this particular dispute, as it affected the eu, was resolved in a very short time, but we must be prepared for longer-lasting disputes. in conclusion, this dispute has again been a real wake-up call for us all. while it is true that energy is just a commodity, it is a commodity that is fundamental for our continued economic development and wellbeing. we must learn the lessons from this episode, which i will sum up as a need for a common european energy policy. this policy needs to be clear, coherent and effective both internally and externally, corresponding to the goals of security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the recent gas supply crisis is a wake-up call for the european union. the ppe-de group welcomes the fact that the security of energy supply and sustainability of energy production and consumption are one of the austrian presidency’s priorities. it is high time, since energy security is becoming increasingly important for the overall security of the european union, and especially its economic security. any difficulty, even temporary, that has the effect of reducing supplies of energy from third states also causes serious disturbances in the economic activity of the union. we were recently made aware of how the problem of energy security does not solely concern the areas of industry or economics. energy has been used as a weapon and foreign policy instrument, and hence should be discussed in the context of foreign and security policy. the recent energy crisis between russia and ukraine has exposed the vulnerability of many member states of the european union that are to a dangerous extent dependent on one supplier. it is absolutely essential, therefore, for the eu to extend joint action to the energy field and take steps to create a proactive energy policy. it is clear that all the efforts taken at national level are not sufficient as they do not guarantee the long-term interests of the union as a whole. action at eu level is therefore clearly justified, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. moreover, if we treat the idea of a common market seriously, we should endow economic operators, not to mention citizens, with equality in energy security and supply. in this light we assess very positively the presidency’s plans to finalise the decision on the trans-european energy network early this year. we should, however, move beyond that. one of the main principles of european integration – that of solidarity – encompasses the obligation to assist all those states that are in danger or in difficulty, and that includes problems relating to energy supply shortages. the union should take concrete steps towards the diversification of energy sources and supply and the sharing of reserves. all potential avenues for enhancing the union’s energy self-sufficiency should be explored. nor should we forget the principles of transparency and equal access. the eu should propose a code of conduct on relations with its main energy suppliers. we should make all the necessary efforts to establish new sources of financing for all the undertakings aimed at increasing the eu’s energy security, both from the eib and from the eu budget itself. we should not just think about ourselves. energy security should constitute one of the cornerstones of the neighbourhood policy. reality calls for courage. close cooperation in the energy field and the possibility of sharing energy reserves constitute one of the most effective and indispensable confidence-building measures both within the union and between the union and its neighbourhood. our citizens will appreciate the tangible results of our actions to secure energy supplies. the ppe-de group will be tabling a resolution on this for the next part-session in brussels. (applause)
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. recent events, called by the international press the "cold gas war between ukraine and russia", as well as the earlier project of building a gas pipeline between germany and russia, excluding the baltic countries including poland, have proved that electricity, mainly gas, is being used as a political weapon in relations between countries. this is a problem which the member states are looking to the community to help solve. in addition to natural disasters, pandemics and terrorist threats, these are areas where the community should pursue a coherent, integrated policy to ensure security and diversification of supply. the fact that one member state, for example germany and russia, is in coalition (in this area) against other newly admitted members of the community is unacceptable. this is one of the few instances where the eu should act decisively and swiftly. its passivity means that it accepts the breakdown of the principle of solidarity and that it has no de facto influence on the really important economic and political problems of europe. the union can therefore continue to produce resolutions and statements which are meaningless or directives which are harmful to the citizens of europe. (laughter)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. russia's energy strategy explicitly envisages the use of gas and gas intermediaries to further russia's policy objectives in the region, including towards europe. the recent gas crisis is a kind of test for the european union. it was to be, and it was felt, not only in ukraine and moldova, but also in eight other countries of the european union, including germany, france and italy. russia has thus ceased to be a stable and reliable partner. the only question is what conclusions will be drawn by us - the european union and the individual countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this first request is expected in russia. the second is expected by all those who have lost their illusions about the imperial character of the new russian policy. i would like to make one comment on parliament: the fact that it is unable to adopt a joint resolution on this matter is a disgrace to this house. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! the lack of a common long-term energy security strategy is evidence of short-sightedness and even conflicts of interest within the union. the lack of a smart energy doctrine in the union has contributed to the tripling of oil prices. this is in the interests of the big oil companies, against the interests of the states and the people of europe. it is a mistake to try to make a deal with russia on an individual basis, as germany is doing, sacrificing the baltic countries, poland, austria and others. russia, encouraged by this and the union's passive attitude, has used gas blackmail against ukraine. the rapid development and implementation of a european energy security strategy is both a necessity and a test of whether the european union is still a community or not. the weakest link criterion should be the guiding principle of the union's energy security strategy. it says: "the resilience of the system is measured by the resilience of the countries and regions with the greatest dependence on a single supplier, or with the worst transmission and distribution system, or with the highest production costs in relation to the wealth of the population". particular care should be taken in border and transit countries. the solution to the union's energy security dilemma is hamlet's "to be or not to be". in this context, it is regrettable that the union budget for 2007-2013 does not include any thought for a common doctrine on energy security in europe.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. the methods of sugar market reform are contrary to the strategic objectives of the union and the common agricultural policy. the union shall reallocate the surplus sugar contained in amount b on the markets of third countries with subsidies. it's costly and disruptive to international trade. the limitation of sugar production and the burden of the costs of the reform should be primarily borne by the countries with large b quotas, since the a quotas are intended to meet the needs of the member states themselves. the combination of the a and b quotas thus threatens to deprive many member states of their self-sufficiency in sugar production and unnecessarily burdens those member states which are not facing a crisis of overproduction with restructuring costs. this proposal is unfair and illogical from the point of view of the objective of the reform. why should the other member states, especially the new ones, pay for the problems of overproduction caused by a few countries, when they have much lower b quotas? the old union has 2.7 million tonnes of b quota and the new countries only 0.12 million tonnes. the proposed reform also disregards environmental requirements. under the banner of increased competitiveness, greater beet cultivation intensity and concentration in selected countries and regions are being demanded. what about environmental protection? this reform also affects social, economic and regional cohesion, and will lead to the further withdrawal of many farms from the market and the dismissal of sugar workers - contrary to the lisbon strategy. the reform of the sugar market offers a sense of solidarity. this solidarity is unfortunately the work of some government committees. the sugar market reform in question is contrary to the common agricultural policy. once again, it turns out that this policy is common, ... (the president read out the minutes)
madam president! today we are not considering reform, but a pseudo-reform of the sugar market, which is dangerous, unfair, dishonest and anti-social. it is dangerous because it will make the union dependent on sugar supplies from the world. it's a threat to our continent's food security. it is unfair because the troublesome subsidised exports of the b quota were created mainly by two countries, france and germany, and the price is paid by the whole union, including the most sensitive new member states. instead of eliminating export surpluses, the project is hitting all european sugar production. it is unfair, because for example, in poland, the sugar companies bought the privatized sugar factories very cheaply a few years ago, and now they will take several times more money to liquidate the sugar factories. it is also anti-social because it ignores the plight of thousands of farmers and sugar workers who will lose their livelihoods and find it difficult to find new ones. this pseudo-form is like the title of a gangster movie: "take the money and run". sugar companies will take hundreds of millions of euros for moving their business outside the european union. we should reject this pseudo-reform for the sake of europe.
madam president! the debate today raises many questions, particularly as regards the implications of its introduction for the new member states. in the last two years since the enlargement of the union, has anything unusual happened in the world sugar trade and production that would justify such a sudden change in sugar policy? no, i'm not going. i say this because the effects of this reform are mainly felt in the new member states. farmers in these countries often invested all their savings in their farms, and they were treated unequally. i remind you, farmers in the old union get three times the area subsidy as the new members. this reform was probably worked on for several years, i.e. the new members were deliberately misled or even deceived during the accession period. the reforms under way once again show that the idea of european solidarity and real help for new members is a fiction, because the help is not provided by periodic subsidies, but by giving the new countries of the union the opportunity to develop their economies in a real way. one country or several countries can vote, but the polish people say no to such a reform and its continuous cheating. and he knows how to say thank you for this union.
member of the commission. i am afraid it is too early to answer these questions. perhaps mrs ferrero-waldner has something in mind, but as far as the commission is concerned, we have not reached the point of being able to answer this question because, first, political and economic reforms are needed to get ukraine closer to the european union. then comes further and deeper cooperation.
member of the commission. i think that it will take a long time to bring ukraine closer to the european union and it will be a long road. using my personal experience as a former foreign minister of neighbouring hungary, i can say that ukraine has come a long way, and since the orange revolution there is now no major question that ukraine wants to get closer, that ukraine wants to be a democratic country, wants to be a market economy. nevertheless, it is still has a long way to go before it completely complies with eu norms and principles. we have two options. either we can be too demanding and push ukraine away from the european union, or we can be more tolerant, more cooperative, and bring ukraine closer, bearing in mind that the domestic political situation in the country is not that simple. ukraine is now facing general elections that will be a test of democracy in the country, whatever the outcome. what we have to take into consideration is not the outcome of the election, but the democratic nature of that event, which will be a test for ukrainian democracy.
member of the commission. thank you for the question. there are strong reasons for concern about the situation in sri lanka. the year 2005 was a bad one for the peace process. the assassination of foreign minister kadirgamar, the electoral boycott enforced by the ltte in the north and east, and the numerous killings in the east and in jaffna have put the ceasefire in jeopardy. the failure of the post-tsunami operations management structure, the mechanism within which the government, the ltte and muslim representatives were to decide jointly about tsunami reconstruction in the north and east, has also been a heavy drawback, creating huge resentment among the tamils. what we are seeing now is a dangerous spiral. the sri lankan military has now lost more than 60 soldiers in indirect attacks by the ltte in jaffna and other parts of the north and east. so far, the government has acted with a remarkable sense of restraint, but this cannot last forever. the european union, and the commission in particular, plays a strong part in the peace process. sri lanka is a personal priority of the commissioner responsible for external relations, mrs ferrero-waldner. she went there last march and fought hard to obtain an agreement on p-toms. she still feels this would have made a major difference. the eu passed strong messages to both sides throughout the year. in particular, the eu declaration of september 2005 announcing that high-level delegations of the ltte would no longer be received in eu capitals was a major signal that, while seeking a balanced approach to the conflict, the eu would not tolerate further violence from the ltte. the commission has also been instrumental in raising the profile of the co-chairs. the commissioner responsible for external relations personally attended three of the four co-chair meetings held in 2005. indeed, two of them were held in brussels. the commission continued to support norway’s facilitation through public, as well as private, messages throughout the year. the commission also supported the idea that the next co-chair meeting should take place in sri lanka close to the fourth anniversary of the ceasefire agreement. the commission will intensify its efforts into the next year. two priorities have been set for the commission’s action. firstly, the commission will work towards an even stronger role for the co-chairs, including direct visits at ministerial level. the commissioner responsible for external relations herself intends to return there in february, hopefully with all the co-chairs. she wants to be able to speak to mr pirapaharan in person and pass him the direct message that europe will react very soon if the ltte shows no sign of change. secondly, now that p-toms have failed, the commission is working on an alternative base to deliver reconstruction to the north and east. it may seek to work more locally, say in one or two districts, to compensate for the absence of a larger consensus between the key players.
member of the commission. thank you for the supplementary question. as i am not the commissioner responsible i can only give my personal view, and not that of the commission, on this new development which the commission has not had time to discuss. however, it would seem to me that an initiative such as the one you suggest as a possible option is fully in line with the commission’s policy on the situation in sri lanka.
member of the commission. the commission shares the concern of the honourable member regarding the continuing human rights violations and the persisting threats to democracy in the regions of colombia affected by the longstanding internal armed conflict. therefore the eu strategy for colombia mainly aims at supporting comprehensive peace initiatives, with the strong involvement of local communities. it is thus the intention to directly contribute to the strengthening of democracy with an integrated set of instruments. among these, over the period from 2001 to 2005, more than eur 16 million was committed for colombia from the european initiative for democracy and human rights, for 53 projects supporting human rights and democratisation, and which have been implemented or are still under way.
member of the commission. i do not wish to take the floor on that, as i am not aware of the problem that the member raised.
member of the commission. the commission follows with interest the attempts by institutions and individuals in asean countries to establish a human rights mechanism. the commission supports those efforts and other human rights issues through various cooperation programmes in several asean countries. an ec-sponsored asean-wide human rights conference will be held in manila in 2006. we are encouraged to note that for the first time an asean summit called for the release of political prisoners in myanmar. asean leaders also agreed to dispatch the foreign minister of malaysia, the current chair of asean, to assess the democratic process during a visit. while those initiatives by asean are positive, we should remain cautious about the prospects of immediate changes in myanmar and especially about the release of aung san suu kyi.
i'm not going to let you do this. there is indeed progress, at least in the form of a call for respect for human rights in the former burma. i think, however, and this is not a question but a request - i have a proposal to the european commission to keep this matter under constant monitoring - with the help of our parliament, of course - because only international pressure, not only asian but also european, can really bring about concrete results in this matter. i would ask the european commission to continue to take this interest.
member of the commission. thank you for your proposal, which i will certainly forward to mrs ferrero-waldner. i think that the possibilities available to the european union, which is not in the region, are more limited than those available to asean, for instance. i think asean could do more, but your proposal is certainly worthy of consideration.
the next item is the debate on the report drawn up by mr jean-claude fruteau on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development.
mr. chairman, please! the liberalisation of the sugar market is a complex problem requiring special consideration. this consideration was expressed by the european parliament in its resolution of 10 march 2005 on the future reform of the common organisation of the market in sugar. unfortunately, the european commission ignored it and in july 2005 submitted to us three draft regulations which undermine the spirit of the resolution adopted. the second time parliament was ignored was on 24 november 2005, when the council adopted the final shape of the reform without parliament's opinion and with the opposition of the agriculture ministers of poland and greece. as a result, we have received draft documents which are a violation of european solidarity and seek to reform the sugar market at the expense of smaller countries, especially those newly admitted to the european union, and to concentrate european production in germany and france. the proposed solutions are a win-win for farmers and sugar workers, and a win-win for the big sugar companies. the man and the partnership died in this reform. the new member states have carried out the privatisation of sugar factories. in poland, it was overwhelmingly taken over by foreign capital for a price of only 1/3 of the amount it is now due to receive for shutting down production. the same is true in many other lands. for these reasons and many others, i am calling for all three drafts to be rejected and for a version to be drawn up in accordance with parliament's resolution of 10 march 2005.
mr. chairman, please! i understand that the common agricultural policy must be and will be reformed more and more, unfortunately to the disadvantage of farmers, and as usual, the new member states will suffer the most from the new reforms, which is another example of the unfair conditions of our accession. it is no secret to the commissioner that the current sugar reform will not make you popular in poland, but our point of view must be understood and taken into account. as the rapporteur has said, we must think in particular of those men and women who make their living from sugar production, and the compensation provided for should be directed more towards the workers and farmers rather than the owners of the sugar mills, especially since most of the sugar mills in poland are owned by foreign capital. in order to avoid speculation, it is appropriate to prohibit the transfer of production quotas from one country to another. such a sugar reform is another wasted opportunity. instead of showing solidarity within the eu and with developing countries, the poor are not being helped enough, and new points of disagreement are being built up between us.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. reform of the sugar market is necessary because the current regulation regulating quantities, prices and export subsidies expires on 30 june this year. however, the changes proposed are unacceptable. the word "scandal" reflects not only my personal attitude, but also that of most sugar beet growers in poland. the council's current political compromise is unacceptable. polish sugar beet growers even claim that the reform of the eu sugar market was specifically delayed until the new countries were admitted in order to reduce sugar production in the union at their expense. the european commission has repeatedly pointed out that c sugar quotas destabilise the market. we lost the wto panel and the appeals court's decision. what about the compromise of the council of ministers? we have an additional 1.1 million tonnes of c sugar for the member states which produce the most. the european commission and the council are surprisingly inconsistent in their efforts to reduce production and instead propose to increase the so-called c sugar for those who produce a lot of sugar. we have more of these christmas presents. it's too bad santa wasn't as generous to all the countries. how will the commissioner and the council explain the additional aid to selected countries only? how were they chosen? all these gifts will be financed by increased restructuring fees paid by the other, much poorer countries, including poland. commissioner, is the sugar reform just a big market or is it a consistent effort to ensure the competitiveness of the european sugar market? in order to improve this sugar reform in part, i ask the house to accept the amendments i have tabled. i hope the commission and the council will take them into account. there's still a chance. i'm asking you to.
mr. chairman, please! we are debating today three reports from the european parliament on sugar market reform. as the representative of the new member state of poland, i would like to raise two serious objections to this reform. first, the need for reform is due to the excessive sugar exports of two countries, namely germany and france, which amount to almost 2 million tonnes, and these countries should bear the costs of the reform by significantly reducing their exports. poland, which exports only 90 000 tonnes, can only reduce its production to this extent. secondly, in poland - unlike in other european countries - sugar production limits are imposed on sugar factories, not on farmers. most of the sugar factories in poland were bought by german and french investors, who paid for them (per tonne of their production limit) around eur 200. with a compensation of eur 730 per tonne of production eliminated, the owners of the sugar mills will receive almost 4 times more than they paid and will still have possession of the post-production assets, i.e. buildings, land, machinery. these two serious reservations are addressed to the commission and the council, the commissioner present, who believe that they have prepared an excellent concept for the reform of the sugar market.
member of the commission. mr president, i have listened carefully to the debate. its intensity is a sign that quite a lot is at stake. however, it is also a sign of the commitment with which you have engaged yourselves in the process of making this new reform. let me first deal with the amendments. i believe that i have found in them a lot of common ground with my own views. i shall start with the proposed new common market organisation. you have argued that the safety net is necessary during the restructuring period ending in 2009-2010 in order to limit undesirable market disturbances. i can accept that. i can therefore endorse the substance of amendments 2, 29 and 54. in order not to encourage overproduction and subsequent building-up of stocks, it will be necessary to set the intervention price at a level considerably lower than the reference price of the following campaign. intervention will also have to be limited to a certain maximum quantity. finally, i think that during the restructuring period we need to dispose of all management tools, including private storage. you also argue that as long as our international commitments are respected some quantities of quota sugar should or could be exported. for the sake of the market balance, this is an idea that i can live with and thus i accept in principle amendments 20, 39, 49, 51 and 68. many of you have mentioned bioethanol. i share your analysis that future energy production could become a major outlet for community beet. along these lines, i can support amendments 11 and 42, raising the political profile of bioethanol in the reform package. as you are aware, the commission is working on a whole set of political initiatives. on 1 february we shall adopt a proposal on the promotion of biofuels based on agricultural raw materials. i am also aware that mr parish is currently working on a parliament resolution on exactly the same subject. i think we need to take this debate when these contributions have been adopted, rather than to take it now within the context of the sugar reform. i must underline that i am very interested in coming back to this debate as it is very important. i share the view that we need to address the specific problem arising for those growers who practise autumn growing. this is specifically a problem in the mediterranean countries. that would require a provisional extension of the quota without restructuring levy for the marketing year 2006/2007. the commission can thus agree with the principle of amendments 23 and 69. i can share your concerns as regards the income of beet growers, and consent to the relevant part of amendment 31 concerning the removal of the additional 10% flexibility for the sugar price. on industrial sugar, i can accept the substance of amendment 43. strict and complex rules that are difficult to monitor should be avoided. there is also a series of technical amendments that were already accepted in the technical discussions on the commission proposal. other amendments cover minor issues that could better be settled in the framework of the implementing rules. i am not in a position to accept the other amendments on the reform of the com. let me now move to the draft regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 1782/2003 establishing common rules for direct support schemes. i can support the principle of increased flexibility for member states in the context of the compensatory payments and therefore accept the substance of amendments 5, 6, 8 and 11, adjusted as necessary. building on my vision to underpin the development of bioethanol production in the community, i can also live with the notion of amendment 7, whereby sugar beet for purposes other than sugar production could be grown on set-aside land. amendment 4 and amendment 13 present a compensation system based on the amount of sugar produced from beet from each individual farmer. i am in favour of the proportionality principle of this reform, for instance, by advancing higher levels of compensation to member states facing severe reductions on their quotas. however, the draft report proposes a system that would differentiate payments based on the volume of the sugar beet produced. such a system would create enormous practical difficulties for a very limited added value, which would go against the shared objective of simplification, and i therefore cannot accept it. nor can i accept the other amendments. finally, let me refer to the draft regulation establishing the restructuring funds. i can endorse the idea underlying amendments 4 and 14, whereby beet growers can benefit from a part of the restructuring aid. however, given the very different conditions faced by member states, a minimum of 50% would be too high. let us not forget the many obligations that need to be dealt with through this restructuring fund. there are some environmental, and some social obligations that are very important. if we were to impose a minimum of 50%, there would be cases where we would have difficulty in meeting these different obligations. therefore i cannot accept it. as mentioned already in my opening statement, a minimum of 10%, with the possibility for the member states to increase this percentage, seems much more appropriate. mrs mcguinness, this is addressed specifically to you: i would never dare interfere in the decisions taken by the member states to decide at what level they would agree on this compensation percentage. likewise, i can support the principle set down in amendment 5, and the relevant part of amendment 10, relating to the extended flexibility for industries ceasing sugar production and moving to alternative sectors, such as the production of bioethanol. the same applies to the notion of the partial quota surrender which is in amendment 7. the social element is already well covered in the proposal and additional administrative requirements would only slow down the restructuring process. therefore, i am of the view that amendments 6, 9 and the relevant part of amendment 7 should not be accepted. some last-minute amendments have also been tabled. i am positive about the idea of amendment 17. sugar beet growers who continue sugar beet production in member states which significantly reduce their sugar quota should be eligible for some kind of state aid for a transitional period. the proposed amendments to which i have not referred are of minor importance and for technical reasons i do not consider it necessary to take them on board. this also includes the last-minute amendments tabled last week. i took note of the particularly harsh comments that were made concerning the treatment of the acp countries. indeed, this has been the subject of very intense discussion, but we have not forgotten the acp countries. the foreseen price cut only kicks in for the acp countries in 2008, two years after it is imposed on the european farmers. let us not forget that after the full implementation of the reform, the acp countries will still benefit from a price that is twice as high as the world market price. the commission has always proposed an action plan for the acp countries, with eur 40 million for 2006. these funds are expected to be at their disposal in 2006, even if the prices are not lowered until 2008. funding of eur 40 million is certainly not a lot, but it is enough to get started and it has always been the intention to provide significant additional funds for the remaining period from 2007 to 2013. it is quite clear that the size of these funds will depend on the ongoing discussions on the financial perspectives. the reform also introduces a number of obligations for undertakings that want to take up the restructuring fund. i must say that i am sorry and disappointed that quite a lot of members – among others the polish members – are obviously unable to be here, because it must be completely clear that sugar companies cannot, i repeat, cannot, just take or cash in the restructuring fund and leave the country. they simply have to provide measures for employees in the sugar industry. these rules apply to training or early retirement, or what you will. this money is going to be spent in cooperation with the government. there seems to have been a complete misunderstanding about these restructuring funds. i can answer mrs mcguinness' question on the levy, which is: yes, the only way to avoid this payment to the restructuring fund would be to do away with the production in 2006/2007. lastly, some members criticised the fact that the council agreed on a political line for the sugar reform on 24 november 2005. the definition of a political line at the november council was driven by exceptional circumstances. the current regime remains applicable only during the ongoing campaign and our growers and operators face some very difficult choices. we owe it to them to provide, in a timely fashion, acceptable conditions in which they could make those choices. we have lost in the wto panel on sugar, and compliance with the panel's conclusion is a matter of urgency. finally, we had to prepare for hong kong in order to be able to defend our sugar sector, and we therefore needed to know what we had to defend. however, i must emphasise that these circumstances should not have come as a surprise to anyone. since i presented my reform proposal before this parliament on 22 june, i made it absolutely clear that the council would have to define its political line on the sugar reform at the november council. i repeated this when i appeared before the committee on agriculture on 13 september 2005 and when i wrote a follow-up letter to all the members of that committee on 26 september 2005. i have operated in full transparency throughout the process to allow parliament to play its role to the fullest. but, finally, let me say to those of you who are critical here today that we owe much credit to the many committees and members of this house who have provided very valuable input over the last 12 months. the reality is that you have managed successfully to influence the shape of the reform – a reform that will secure sustainability of this sector in europe and a reform that allows us to offer a real alternative to those farmers and to those regions that will be most affected by the restructuring. that is the result and it is a good one.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading drawn up by mrs eija-ritta korhola on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the provisions of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters to community institutions and bodies (06273/2/2005 - c6-0297/2005 - 2003/0242 (cod)) (a6-0381/2005).
member of the commission. i would like to thank the speakers tonight for their very important speeches. i shall make an assessment of the main amendments, while at the same time responding to the main points raised today. with regard to access to environmental information: the commission cannot accept amendments nos 4, 14 and 15 which seek to apply the system of derogations from the provisions of directive 2003/2004 on access to environmental information and requests for information addressed to the community institutions. the proposed regulation extends to all community institutions the existing horizontal community legislation on access to documents, as provided for in regulation 1049/2001. the european parliament's amendments in question could have the side effect of creating two, partly overlapping, access regimes to documents, which would not contribute to transparency and legal clarity. the new article 6 of the common position already covers these exceptions and access to environmental information which, in any case, must be explicitly specified in the light of the requirements of the aarhus convention. amendments nos 7 and 12, which seek to include the degree of progress of infringement proceedings in the definition of environmental information, cannot be accepted. the aarhus convention does not provide for such a provision. in addition, infringement procedures are not environmental information in themselves. however, it should be noted that it is the commission's practice to publish on its website information concerning its decisions on infringement procedures for all policy areas. the commission can accept amendment no 16, which provides for a period of 15 working days for informing those who have requested access, in the event that the community institution does not have the requested information, and for referring them to the public authority alleged to have the information. as regards public participation, the commission cannot accept its extension to policies, as was sought in amendment no 5 and partly in amendments nos 19 and 20. the aarhus convention encourages public participation in policy preparation under a best effort clause. this is a very broad concept and no such requirement is contained in the legislation addressed to the member states. it should be noted, however, that current practice at community level involves public consultation of stakeholders in the formulation of community policies. in addition, the definition of environment-related projects and programmes is broad and covers programmes of a strategic nature. the commission cannot accept that public participation should also be required for projects and programmes financed by the community institutions, as provided for in amendment no 8. the aarhus convention refers to public participation in projects and programmes when they are prepared by public authorities. in addition, the authorisation of infrastructure projects with significant environmental impact is carried out at member state level with public participation. the commission is able to accept part of amendment no 19 as regards the extension of the deadline for comments in the context of written consultations from four to eight weeks. it can also accept amendment no 20 which adds the obligation for the community institution to take due account of the outcome of public participation. this obligation is derived from the aarhus convention and is in line with the commission's current administrative practice. the commission cannot accept amendment no 23, which would extend the circle of organisations entitled to request internal review from non-governmental organisations whose main objective is to protect the environment to those which also or alternatively promote sustainable development. this criterion would be very difficult to define and would probably cover a wide range of organisations for which it would be unjustified to grant, for environmental purposes, the right of access to such a review procedure. the recognition of a special status for environmental non-governmental organisations, whose main statutory objective is to protect environmental interests, is fully in line with the spirit of the aarhus convention. the commission is also unable to accept the last amendment proposed by the rapporteur, namely that non-governmental organisations should operate in more than one member state, as regards the criteria for the legalization of non-governmental organisations. while it is true that the commission's original proposal referred to action at community level, during the discussions prior to the common position it became clear that such a decision would create unjustified barriers to the right of access to justice. the commission considers this provision in the common position to be satisfactory, which refers to the community dimension of the environmental objective which the non-governmental organisation should promote within the community. finally, amendments nos 22, 24 and 25 concern the outcome of the internal review of administrative acts adopted by the community institutions, in accordance with article 10, and the relationship with the provisions on access to the european court of justice, in accordance with article 12. for the reasons already stated in my original position, the commission cannot accept them because they would be in breach of the provisions of the treaty on the standing of parties. the commission can accept in principle amendments nos 26 and 27 concerning the adjustments to the procedural rules and the date of application of the regulation. i am forwarding to the secretariat of parliament a complete list of the commission's views on the amendments.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report by mr jonas sjöstedt, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint proposal, approved by the conciliation committee, for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the management of waste from extractive industries and amending directive 2004/35/ec (pe-cons 3665/2005 - c6-0405/2005 - 2003/0107 ((cod)) (a6-0001/2006).
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament and council directive on the management of waste from various types of quarries in the extractive industries is a very important document for: environmental protection and health, the extractive industries, which will bear the costs of implementing this directive, consensus and reconciliation of the interests of all parties. this directive is a document eligible for approval, but like any document it is subject to changing economic conditions and practice will prove its effectiveness. some additions to this document may be taken into account in future regulations, e.g. mining waste often contains mineral components that should be exploited to limit the opening of additional sites.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr jules maatene, on behalf of the delegation of the european parliament and the council to the conciliation committee, on the joint proposal, approved by the conciliation committee, for a european parliament and council directive on the quality of bathing water and repealing directive 76/160/eec (pe-cons 3659/2005 - c6-0373/2005 - 2002/0254 (cod)) (a6-0415/2005).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs anna ferreira on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the environmental aspects of sustainable development (2005/2051 (ini)) (a6-0383/2005).
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union is working to integrate environmental considerations into all its policies. europe's consumption of natural resources is now more than twice its biological capacity, meaning that the continent is taking up a disproportionate share of the existing natural resources of the sea and the land. i would like to recall the communication adopted by the european commission on 15 october 1998 which commits to strengthening the integration of environmental and energy policy. the document contains specific measures to achieve the intended objective. eight years have passed, and nothing has come of that document. we are witnessing the political decision to build the largest undersea energy network in the baltic sea, comprising a double gas pipeline and an electric cable system. the construction of this system threatens ecological safety and will have a fatal impact on the state of the aquatic environment in the closed basin of the baltic sea. we have to ask ourselves the key questions: how long are we going to create laws that are detached from reality? how long will legislative acts and opinions be empty slogans and phrases without any concrete action? instead of focusing on solving current and priority problems, a substitute slogan is proposed: the introduction of an environmental tax. i don't agree with that approach. the creation of a taxation system will not solve environmental problems, but rather exacerbate them, since increasing the tax burden will directly reduce investment in new technologies, which are extremely costly. it may also result in increased costs for employers a risk of redundancies.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
mr. chairman, please! i must say that i am surprised to see that on the one hand the austrian minister for economic affairs declares that work on the services directive is de facto frozen, and on the other hand the operational work plan of the council is concentrated on institutional issues. i would like to ask you, in this regard, is it true that you intend to waste six months of our time together discussing the rejected constitutional treaty? and one more question: what are you going to do about building a common market for services in the european union and about removing all the barriers to the labour market, which, as we know today, have no economic justification whatsoever? i am particularly interested in the reaction to the illegal actions of the swedish trade unions, which after the vaxholm case in latvia, are going to destroy another construction company from a new eu country, this time it is the zojax company from poland.
mr. chairman, please! on the threshold of the austrian presidency, i would like to wish chancellor schuessel every success. i would like to see the european union's common foreign policy included among these successes. the union is now faced with issues where democracy, human rights and peace are at the centre of attention. this is iran's business, this is russia's business, this is china's business. in all three cases, europe's voice should be united and shared, not only because its content was such as to affirm the ethical dimension of european foreign policy, but also because the instruments were to be used, even though there was no constitutional treaty yet. the european union has two countries that are permanent members of the security council. the european union has four countries that are members of the g8 group. one of these countries should be entitled to speak on behalf of the european union and to be the voice of the european union. that's what i wish for you, mr. chancellor.
mr president, mr chancellor, allow me to adopt mr poignant's tone somewhat and add my own budgetary wishes to that list. unfortunately, the budget is too small! and your country, austria, is a member of the club of the six, the club of the one per cent, the "club of the miser" who want more of europe with less money. but as the presidency, mr chancellor, add money to the eastern neighbourhood policy and to this new challenge, which is the energy security of the european union. otherwise, we will rebel, as mr poignant said, against the council's greed. the austrian presidency's intention to work for growth and jobs, competitiveness and the lisbon agenda is most laudable. such objectives can be achieved only through the completion of the internal market. the best service we can render to lisbon, growth and jobs is to open labour and services markets. austria has explicitly recognised in its white paper that the services directive is essential for completing the internal market and reinforcing european competitiveness. yet when it comes to taking concrete steps to achieve the declared objectives, the presidency's pronouncements are much less reassuring. soon there will be an initial review of the transition period for introducing freedom of movement of workers. but austria has declared that it will use this opportunity to extend the transitional period in the area of free movement of workers, and it takes the reductionist position on the free movement of services. are austria's declarations as presidency consistent with its intentions as a member state? on the one hand, the presidency's declared objective is boldness in fighting for europe's competitiveness, on the other, vienna strives to stifle europe's potential. enlargement was supposed to bring the european union great benefits, increasing its competitiveness in global trade, largely through the influx of highly qualified, mobile and relatively cheap labour. now, certain member states, including austria, regardless of the positive examples of great britain, ireland and sweden, want to forgo those crucial benefits, introducing transitional periods immediately after enlargement.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. mr president, mr winkler, mrs wallström, the committee on civil liberties adopted by a large majority on 28 november the opinion i had prepared for it. what does this say? first, it recalls all the improvements provided for in the constitution in relation to the existing treaties. the improvements in security, freedom and justice were many and significant and, above all, they were the subject of consensus among the nations that make up europe. i will not mention them all, but i will simply mention four points which could help us to get out of the difficult situation we are in and which my colleagues, mr duff and mr voggenhuber, put back on the agenda in their excellent report. firstly, the generalization of qualified majority voting and the simplification of legislative acts allow us to establish a policy and not be blocked by its nuances. secondly, the extension of the jurisdiction of the court of justice creates community law when parliament does not know how to do so. the final reinforcement of parliament's role as a co-legislator is another example; we must be the promoters of this. finally, the incorporation of the charter of fundamental rights into the constitution itself gives it legal force. there are of course other positive aspects, but the ones i have just mentioned are really fundamental. forgive me for referring to the possibilities that remain, but i wanted to emphasize the progress made by this constitution in an area that is indisputable in all the member states of the union, namely the charter of fundamental rights and the area of freedom, justice and security. there is indeed something to be done to make a bone now, until a new text emerges. why are the member states not doing more to try to consolidate a union that is being mishandled? finally, we consider it a priority to take systematically into account the impact of the union's policies on fundamental rights and we stress the urgency of creating an independent agency for fundamental rights, as requested by parliament on 26 may, in order to take the first step without delay.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the liberal democrats in the alde group welcome the duff-voggenhuber report on the reflection period. we were convinced that the union needed a constitutional framework. we regarded the constitutional treaty as an effective instrument for moving the union forward, giving it the political dimension and social horizon that are both necessary. we have not changed our mind and we believe that the constitution should not be declared dead before it has been examined: it is impossible to declare the patient dead without it. but it is also true that during the ratification process a gap has emerged between the desire for deeper integration expressed by the european elites and the sensitivity of some parts of european society. this gap does not only concern the two countries which have refused to ratify. this is a serious problem. jean monnet said that when faced with a serious problem, sometimes you have to change your context. this is precisely the subject of the reflection period. the major public debate on the future of the european union should create a new context for the european constitutional enterprise. it is up to the european parliament to define the framework and the organisation of these debates, to involve national parliaments and civil society, to define the issues and to draw up the necessary agenda. this is how the european agora can emerge as the public space of europe. we have not yet decided what to do with the text. the time will come after the reflection period, after the european debate, after changing the context. the report before us says so very clearly.
mr. chairman, please! europe was built in the middle ages on the foundation of christianity. the european union was created as a safeguard against another war. people and nations banding together around something or against something. europe is dead. the european union has taken its place, but it still lacks a common idea of what it should be. today, everyone has an argument for rejecting the constitution: one is bothered by the low budget, or too high, turkey to others. the new member states complain about the unfair common agricultural policy and the closure of labour markets - but we do not want to part company. before we propose a constitution to the people again, let's put aside the divisions that exist between us, let's listen to the people, and this time, let's take it into account.
mr. chairman, please! the resolution we are discussing is a good document, a balanced document, a compromise document, and it was adopted at a very good time. the resolution is perfectly in line with the priorities of the austrian presidency, as well as those of the finnish presidency and the future german presidency. it proves that despite voices of doubt or dislike, the constitution is not a trash can, it is not a dead document. on the contrary, the constitution is a living document. the constitution, through the french and dutch, lives because we debate it. all europeans must answer the question of what kind of europe they want. with this resolution, parliament invites all citizens of the european union, all national parliaments and all governments to take part in such a broad debate, so that they can express their expectations. to the nine governments that have not yet ratified the constitution, we should say this: your prime ministers have signed this document, therefore, it is your international law and it is your duty to begin ratification. this obligation is derived from the convention on the law of treaties. and finally, one last note. the attitude of a state towards the european constitution is not only a test of its willingness to build a common europe, but above all a test of the state's credibility as a partner in international relations.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the debate taking place in the european parliament today is a testament to the fact that we are a democratic institution. i thank my predecessors for their honest and fair assessment of the situation in chechnya. but we must be clear that such a debate can take place here in the european parliament, and it cannot take place in russia, because today in russia there is no democracy in the sense that we know it in the west. if it's not in moscow, where there's no war, if it's not in st. petersburg, where there's no war, it's not in grozny, it's not in chechnya. the commissioner said today - and i thank you for your frank words - that the european union was unable to send observers to the elections in chechnya because there were no conditions for them to come. ladies and gentlemen, if there were no conditions for the safe presence of observers, how can we say that there were conditions for a free election? it wasn't like that. they were also not there because - and i want to emphasize this very strongly - in the sense of international law, what is happening in chechnya is an occupation of an independent state. the chechen people have never, by an act of their own free will, shown that they want to be part of the russian federation. chechnya has declared its sovereignty and that sovereignty is being trampled on by russian tanks in full view of the world. no matter what party we represent in the european parliament, if we share the fundamental values that have been the foundation of our community - values such as democracy and the right to selfdetermination - we must demand loudly in this house the right to freedom for chechens.
mr. chairman, please! at the same time as the european parliament debates russia, another day of the trial of stanislav dmitrievsky, editor-in-chief of pravda zashchyta newspaper and chairman of the russian-chechen friendship society, was taking place in nizhny novgorod. dmitrijewski is one of the most prominent human rights defenders in the russian federation. the website of the russian-chechen friendship society is the main forum for the situation of human rights and political freedoms in transcaucasia, especially in chechnya. dmitrievsky's next court date has been set for february 3rd of this year. when we talk about russia, we are concerned about the state of democracy, the limitation of human rights and the activities of ngos. but we must remember that there is another russia. the country of human rights defenders, the country of politicians who oppose the authoritarianism of the political system. russia is a country of flourishing culture, a country of sensitive civil society - a real bridge between today's russia and the european union.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wanted to highlight a few key principles that should guide a good and effective neighbourhood policy. first, it cannot be set against membership of the european union; on the contrary, a successful neighbourhood process for a european country should bring membership closer. neighbourhood does not automatically lead to membership - that is obvious - but membership can be its effect. secondly, it should be stressed that the level of aid should be conditional on the willingness of the neighbouring or partner country to respect democratic standards. this is particularly true of belarus, where we are unable to work with the government, but it should also be true of russia, where democratic standards have fallen significantly during the implementation of the partnership agreements. i sometimes get the feeling that in russia, we help build roads that transport wrongfully convicted people, or pipelines that we later shut down. and there's a third principle: when democracy is not enough, we should focus more on supporting civil society and democratic forces. to do this effectively, we should maintain a dedicated human rights instrument that is flexible enough to be an effective tool in a hostile political and legal environment. these principles have been confirmed, they are present in mr tannock's report, and that is why my group will be pleased to support this report in the vote.
mr. chairman, please! the european neighbourhood policy, today's debate and resolution show that despite the union's crisis, we have not amputated our strategic thinking. we see the need to open up to our neighbors. the economic problems of an enlarged union, the problems of passing a constitution, cannot eliminate the vision of the future, a future beyond the next elections in our countries. the most important areas of our neighbourhood policy are relations with our eastern and south-eastern neighbours. it is good that the draft resolution mentions ukraine, georgia, moldova and the countries of the caucasus in general. it is good that we admit the mistake of not applying pressure on russia to stabilize rather than destabilize the situation in the former soviet republics. one thing to note, commissioner ferrero-waldner, no one is going to do the european neighbourhood policy for us. let's not throw this at the g8, at the oecd, let's not play political ping-pong, that's our role first and foremost. the main thing to remember is that financial assistance under the newly created european neighbourhood and partnership instrument cannot be unchecked. that's what you said, mr. szymański. we cannot serve an undemocratic government. they are intended to support the democratisation of these societies and power structures, as well as the promotion of human rights standards. in conclusion, the european neighbourhood policy is an opportunity for the union, not an unpleasant obligation. let's keep that in mind.
mr. chairman, please! we are all convinced that the european neighbourhood policy is one of the most important elements in shaping the common foreign and security policy of the european union. we know how diverse this policy must be and how it must be adapted to the circumstances of each country, because we know that this policy covers countries with situations as diverse as morocco or ukraine. we also know, and we emphasize very clearly, that while maintaining the flexibility of this instrument, we must not forget that we are dealing with two situations. in some countries - as in north africa - it is about deepening, broadening cooperation in areas such as energy, security and other areas where this cooperation should take place. we also have the situation in other countries, like belarus and syria, where we have dictatorships and undemocratic situations. the european neighbourhood policy should be an instrument for pressing for the democratisation of these countries. we are pleased to see that mr tannock's report answers these questions and deserves our support. we are also pleased to stress that this neighbourhood policy is not an alternative to this thinking and this is a very good starting point it is not an alternative to the future membership of these countries in the european union. none of us are under any illusion that countries like moldova, belarus or ukraine will soon be members of the union. the point is to keep the door open for european countries to apply for membership, in accordance with the treaties. we also ask for support for amendments nos 55 and 52 proposed by mr klich, which relate, among other things, to calling the regime in belarus what it is, i.e. an undemocratic regime.
mr. chairman, please! the debate this evening in the european parliament concerns one of the most important issues for the european union: the formulation of a neighbourhood policy that will allow the expansion of the sphere of security, democracy, political freedoms and economic development in the modern world, in the immediate geographical environment of the european union. the european union, based on its principles of respect for peace, compromise, human rights and liberal democracy, is a global force. it is making a major contribution to the democratisation of north africa, the middle east, the caucasus and eastern europe. it should be stressed that this policy is made up of a network of interconnections in the political, economic, scientific and cultural spheres. i would like to draw attention to the human rights aspect of the european neighbourhood policy. societies that are struggling with the lack of democracy and respect for human rights in their countries see the european union as a partner and guarantor of democratization processes. the european neighbourhood policy should take into account the aspirations of the societies in these countries, support visa policy, civil society, and make the european research area truly open to countries outside the european union itself. finally, the european neighbourhood policy must not become a barrier to the european continent's countries' ambitions to become members of the european union in the future.
mr. chairman, please! in crisis situations, such as the recent gas pipeline closure in ukraine and moldova by moscow, the european neighbourhood policy should play a key role and provide a formula for a common vision of european union policy. gas has become a political lever, and one of the priorities of the european neighbourhood policy is to engage in energy dialogue with third countries and in the organisation of trans-european energy networks. the european union is surrounded by the world's major oil and natural gas reserves. many neighbouring countries are suppliers or transit countries. this is a wide field of action in the policy of creating a friendly circle around the european union. the measures taken so far in this area have been unsatisfactory. an example is the political approval of the construction of the north european gas pipeline on the bottom of the baltic sea. this system is not only in the interests of the member states but in the long term it weakens the countries covered by the eastern neighbourhood policy beyond the european union's eastern border, i.e. ukraine, belarus, and the transcaucasian countries. the lack of a strong response from european decision-makers has resulted in a strategic decision being taken over the heads of many member states, thereby weakening the position of many transit countries. i would ask the commissioner to answer this question and to give me his opinion. the european neighbourhood policy must become an effective tool for consolidating democracy and the rule of law in the countries neighbouring the european union and for promoting change in countries where democracy does not work. support the activities of democratic movements in neighbouring countries by providing access to independent media and information. in this context, the european initiative for democracy and human rights can play a special role. the instrument should support initiatives promoting parliamentary democracy in a flexible and effective manner. i would remind you that this is the only external instrument of the european union which does not require the consent of the host country.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. everyone has the right to live in peace, everyone has the right to live in a democracy, everyone has the right to live. the radicals should finally understand that no nation can be "erased" from the world map. such attempts have been made in the past, including in europe. fortunately, they have proved ineffective, though they have brought untold tragedy and pain. what's important today for the middle east is the elections in israel and the palestinian authority. the election is a hopeful sign that the outcome will bring both nations closer to a peaceful solution. the european union should now concentrate on the political sphere. neighborhood policy, infrastructure, education, social issues are important, but the key to a lasting solution is politics. without politics, there will be no progress on the road to peace in the middle east.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. at the lisbon summit, the heads of government of the member states, like the heads of manufacturing companies, adopted the lisbon strategy, according to which the european union should become the most competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010 in order to displace the united states of north america. the long-term objective is to increase the number of people in employment by 70% by increasing the retirement age, thus depriving them of the opportunity to enjoy a well-earned rest in retirement. another goal is to use human capital to increase productivity, but this is hampered by europeans themselves, who do not want to be just robots, but want more free time and longer holidays. this style of competition, especially for us - the mps - is well known from the soviet communes of the 1950s, when people died of exhaustion, reaching 200% of the norm and receiving posthumous medals. women should also work instead of raising children. the strategy offers childcare facilities for at least 90% of children from the age of 3 and for more than 30% of children under 3 years old, which is an experiment we know from the period of socialism's mistakes and distortions. the public should know that especially young children, even up to the age of seven, need the care of mothers who are not replaced by any institutions whose love is necessary for their proper development. the strategy should therefore rather be to provide income and pension rights for mothers raising children, which would not only reduce unemployment but would above all be an investment in children and young people, who are our future. we oppose the treatment of people as labour and the exploitation of women, who should be especially protected as mothers and educators of future generations.
mr. chairman, please! in 2000, the lisbon european council endorsed the strategic objectives that the european union could become a dynamic and competitive economy, capable of high growth and poverty eradication within ten years. five years later, there is no sign of progress, and most of the proposals adopted remain on paper. the lack of economic results is not the only concern, but also the lack of solutions to combat discrimination. women continue to be treated worse than men in the european labour market, which is reflected, inter alia, in significant gender pay gaps and restrictions on access to employment. although the employment rate of women in the european union increased slightly in 2003, only slightly more than half of european women are still in work. new jobs created for women tend to be volatile and low paid, and pension rights are much lower than for men. although women now make up 58% of those with higher education in europe, they are still the ones who are less likely to be promoted and earn 15-40% less than men in the same positions. in order to deliver on the lisbon strategy, we need to take concrete action as soon as possible to support and promote employment and female entrepreneurship. changes in discriminatory employment policies against women are also absolutely necessary because of the so-called theories of the 'natural place of women in the family' that are emerging today, which limit the social role of women in the 21st century to running the home. by withdrawing from the labour market, women could free up jobs for men, and this, according to some polish politicians, would be an effective way of fighting unemployment. is this the way forward for a modern and competitive europe? i hope not, and that is why i very much support mrs edite estreli's report.
mr. chairman, please! there are about 600 million people with disabilities in the world, and more than 400 million of them live in developing countries. many of the disabled remain invisible, invisible in the sense that their fellow citizens do not want to see the problem. people with disabilities are very often poor people. they are denied access to basic values such as education, employment and self-confidence, yet people with disabilities have the potential to be active participants in the development of their countries. very often, development cooperation is not directly linked to the problems of people with disabilities, and they are thus condemned to marginalization and social exclusion in a closed circle of poverty and disability. in this context, it is worth recalling the observation concerning the relationship between disability and poverty. it's a two-way relationship. disability increases the risk of poverty, and poor living conditions, living in poverty, increases the risk of disability. one reason for the under-appreciation of disability issues may be a lack of understanding and appreciation of the power of the seemingly vulnerable group of people with disabilities and their families. given the high number of disabled people, the short-term costs of education and integration of these people will translate into real economic income in the longer term for both the disabled and their families and society as a whole. it is worth noting that the millennium development goals do not address the needs of people with disabilities. in practice, both cross-sectoral and sectoral programmes do not sufficiently include persons with disabilities. programmes directly targeting disabled people are generally very small projects, with little impact on national or international poverty reduction and development strategies. that should change. and let us remember that development also means giving back to the excluded, like the disabled, the opportunity to live an active and active life, to go to school, to raise children, to access health and rehabilitation services, to be active members of society. people with disabilities have the right to break out of this cycle of poverty and disability.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's debate on human rights and democracy is about the tragic events in cairo, where several thousand police officers attacked a much smaller group of sudanese refugees who sought help and shelter by migrating to egypt. egyptian police used water cannons and sticks to disperse the refugees who were prevented from escaping. unfortunately, the fate of the sudanese people who were attacked (aside from those who were killed), including women and children, is unknown. egypt, a self-proclaimed democracy, has thus joined the ranks of other, not just passive, observers of the more than two decades of sudanese conflict, in which more than two million people have been killed, six million have been forced from their homes, and thousands of women and children have been kidnapped or raped. the sudanese refugees are also not accepted by the united nations, which has only granted refugee status to tens of thousands of them, most of whom want to emigrate to the us, canada or europe. the sudanese have been at war since independence, in effect. black africans living in the south are protesting against the discrimination against them by the arabs who took power in khartoum. this internal conflict is also religious, as the arabs (mostly muslims) who take over the government treat black africans, animists and christians as slaves, hence the attempts to escape to neighboring countries: kenya, egypt, uganda or ethiopia. we protest and express our outrage at the way the egyptian authorities are treating people who are asking for help. it would be good to reflect in the european parliament on the sources of the conflict and also on who is responsible for facilitating the sudanese armed struggle. despite promises that the g8's rich nations would work to end poverty and injustice, the g8's arms, ammunition, and military equipment, especially to poor countries in conflict and to support repressive regimes, contribute to the violation of human rights and democracy. the conflict in sudan also demonstrates the failure of the international community to show determination to stop or reduce the years of aggression and injustice. we support the resolution.
the author. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. cambodia is one of the poorest countries in the world, besides the lack of an independent judiciary and widespread corruption. human trafficking, child prostitution, and the impunity of persecution and torture of political opposition are just some of the elements of cambodian reality. the crackdown and, in recent weeks, the numerous arrests of representatives of humanitarian organisations, trade unions and journalists accused of spreading so-called false information have raised legitimate concerns in the international community. the cambodian government has been using the judiciary as a tool to repress political opposition. cambodia continues to violate international human rights agreements, including the 1951 geneva convention relating to the status of refugees, by inhuman treatment of refugees from vietnam and by brutal deportations. the international community should take decisive action to release all humanitarian actors and clear them of all charges, and thus put an end to the acts of intimidation and harassment. the 1993 cooperation agreement between the european union and cambodia obliges the community to take specific steps to ensure the full enjoyment of human rights in cambodia, including economic, social and cultural rights.
mr. chairman, please! three resolutions of the european parliament last year on the same subject - cambodia - and i would like to comment on this. the authorities of this country have taken as a paperweight both the un declaration on human rights defenders and our eu guidelines on the same matter, which were adopted two years ago. i am very glad that the austrian presidency has protested very strongly and decisively against the deterioration of the situation in that country six days ago. the arrests of journalists, independent activists, trade unionists, are an example of the increasingly harsh regime in this country. i agree with mr smith and mr vatanen who said that we must put economic pressure on the cambodian authorities. fifty percent of cambodia's budget is foreign aid, that's our instrument. the ad hoc delegation, as proposed in the resolution, is very much in favour of it. we need to see this situation for ourselves.
mr. chairman, please! javier solana said today that the european union must be a global actor. this obviously requires the consolidation of the common foreign and security policy, and the constitutional crisis is not conducive to this. however, cohesion is not achieved by having common institutions. cohesion is achieved mainly by a community of political will, and in this sense a great deal will depend this year on the personal activity, prudence and creativity of javier solana and benita ferrero-waldner. secondly, the commissioner is promising a special communication on the energy security of the european union, and elmar brok's report calls for the preparation of an energy security strategy. but they are de facto substitutes for what we really need to do in our union. the aim should be to make energy security policy a community matter. only in this way can we avoid a situation like two years ago when russian suppliers blackmailed belarus, or earlier this month when russia blackmailed ukraine, and the central european countries members of the european union also suffered. do we want to be blackmailed in the future and freeze like the georgians do today? the alternative is a common energy policy of the european union. thirdly, we need to change our policy towards russia today: we need to address those areas where there is no progress. the report by elmar brok addresses two such areas: human rights and arms reduction in kaliningrad. there's a lot more of them. this includes jointly resolving regional conflicts, in particular in transnistria and the south caucasus, as well as the whole kaliningrad package.
mr. chairman, please! a common foreign policy might have prevented the energy crisis in eastern europe. perhaps such a policy would have helped poland's concerns about the construction of a russian-german gas pipeline across the baltic sea to be heard, and poland's interest to be understood as a pan-european interest. the citizens of the european union and the world expect us to have a common foreign policy and to stand up for the weak, with or without a european constitution. israel cannot have a monopoly on foreign policy in its region. hamas will willingly renounce violence and reduce terrorism in the world when the state of palestine is established. and while i'm anti-nuclear, as is mr. cohn-bendit, i don't understand why israel can have a nuclear bomb and iran can't.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to point out that europe also needs to rethink its ideas for its common foreign and security policy. first of all, i think that in terms of security, and therefore peace, europe should focus on the concept of 'human security', a concept of security that also includes thinking about how to combat major diseases, how to combat hunger, and how to combat human rights violations and the violation of democracy. i also consider energy security policy to be such an important element of the security policy of the european union. i would like to point out that europe has not yet taken account of the fact that the question of energy supplies can be a matter of imperial policy. it's not that there's no gas or oil, but that the great energy resources have been used as part of the imperial policy. europe has not yet responded to this. i think this is an important challenge.
mr. chairman, please! the debate on the common foreign and security policy of the european union has so far raised a number of issues. in my view, for europeans to feel safe, we need security in three areas. first, there is energy security. the whole union is facing this security problem, but individual member states, such as poland, are also facing it. there is no desire to work together on this issue. germany, by signing an agreement with russia on the construction of the northern gas pipeline, is improving its energy security, but unfortunately it is significantly worsening poland's situation in this regard. so far, there is no reaction from the european union on this matter, although it is clear that russia has made the supply of energy resources the most important tool for influencing the policies of other countries. blocking gas supplies to ukraine and georgia shows that this can be an effective tool. secondly, food safety. the common agricultural policy is the basis of the cap, but unfortunately it is increasingly being challenged. and finally, physical security, also markedly worsened by the threat of terrorism. without significant progress in these three areas, it is difficult to speak of a common foreign and security policy. these objections are addressed to mr javier solana and commissioner ferrero-waldner.
mr. chairman, please! the rejection of the draft treaty establishing a constitution for europe in referendums in france and the netherlands has made the whole document obsolete. some people find it very difficult to accept the failure of a concept that has been launched for years. the treaty of rome also included a section on the common foreign and security policy. it was definitely rejected. we are therefore surprised to see the anachronistic attempts to refer to a dead, outdated document, which also occur in the case of mr brok's report. this report not only makes a mockery of this house but ultimately tramples on the democratic rights established by the european community. the period of reflection that has been granted since the death of the treaty should be used not to illegally smuggle individual paragraphs of the constitution, but to re-evaluate joint international action and to put more pressure on areas such as, inter alia, common energy security, the threat of epidemics and terrorism.
mr. chairman, please! the european union has in fact one effective common security policy the common agricultural policy. for years it has been providing europe with the food security that is so important for its citizens, for its peoples and states, and for the community as a whole. europe is now sated, but unfortunately it forgets how and by whom it got there. the common agricultural policy is under attack and the stage is set for irresponsible reforms, such as the sugar market reform, which will soon make europe dependent on sugar supplies from the world. the protection of european agricultural markets is disappearing, and that is what our farmers are experiencing. in poland, this is most true of fruit producers. the reckless limitation of agricultural policy will lead to the loss of food security one of the pillars of european security. there is still time to prevent this, but there must be a change in the political approach to agricultural matters. the banner of the peasant organizations in poland often contains the slogan referring to the historical participation of polish peasants in the freedom struggles of the homeland: "with life and arms". when we discuss and decide agricultural matters, let us always remember that farmers feed and protect us, that they are the real guardians of europe's security.
mr. chairman, please! thank you for all that you said about ukraine, but let's put a period on the "i". in those two months, it will be decided whether the fruits of the orange revolution will be ripe or fall from the tree as unripe. we need a lot of europe in ukraine for the next two months. we need a lot of european institutions. you need a lot of dialogue with the leaders and the community. we need to create a pro-european front in ukraine. what's happening in ukraine right now is being driven by russia's unprecedented influence. a new constitution is to be adopted and the next parliament will decide whether ukraine will join europe or remain a key country, as has happened many times before. let's help to create in ukraine a strong, pro-european front from the leaders of those political parties that are fighting for seats in parliament, so that we have a partner for the next four years.
mr. chairman, please! in poland, they say that the rich can't understand the poor. it's not always true. nevertheless, those who were once deprived of their freedom find it easier to understand what is happening in cuba today. the opponents of the hardline cuba policy say it will hit ordinary people, but did they ask what the cubans think? does castro ask what the cubans think? in poland in the 1980s, in response to american economic sanctions that were supposed to hit ordinary people, the polish communists retaliated by announcing that they would send 1,000 sleeping bags to the homeless in new york. how did the ordinary poles react? for example, small press ads appeared in the style of "i will exchange a spacious apartment in warsaw for a sleeping quarters in new york". many cubans probably feel the same way. havana is much closer to new york than warsaw. great revolutionaries like fidel castro see soft politics towards them as a sign of weakness. i think it's time to show that europe is not weak. it is time to realize that cuba should not be treated as a totalitarian hotbed with nothing to do. if castro won't let the sakharov prize winners in, then we shouldn't travel to cuba pretending nothing happened. i think we should convince europeans not to go to cuba for entertainment, tourism. because cuba is not a place to go on vacation. does anyone go on vacation to the gulag or to auschwitz? no, because it seems absurd. equally absurd is the support of a regime that is a flagrant human rights violator with tourism revenues.
mr. chairman, please! i protest against the caricature of the polish government and the prime minister in the eu media, as exemplified by the recent european voice. liberal forces, not agreeing with the will of the people who, in free elections, entrusted the power to the catholics, in an intrusive and aggressive way treat in the media people for whom god, truth and good are more important than the free market. with impunity, democracy is also practiced in poland, media terrorism, insulting human dignity in relation to the monk and radio director "radio maryja", listened to by millions of poles, against whom the liberal press has printed at least 18 thousand offensive articles in the last 8 years. why do eu agencies whose mission is to defend democracy, human rights and dignity, and to combat intolerance, respond only to some manifestations of human rights violations, while when it comes to catholics, they become blind and deaf, and even imitate the traditional values of the media? i want to remind you that democracy without truth becomes a dictatorship of relativism.
mr. chairman, please! polish media reported that the european union had not allocated money from the cohesion fund for the construction of the racibórz dolny flood-control reservoir on the odra river. this information has caused widespread disappointment among the inhabitants of the oder valley and has contributed to a decline in trust in european institutions. in july 1997, 54 people died and nearly eur 5 billion in property was destroyed by a catastrophic flood in the oder river basin. immediately after the flood, the polish government began to rebuild the damaged buildings. despite the country's enormous financial difficulties, the flood barrier programme is being implemented consistently and effectively. we've rebuilt over a thousand kilometers of floodwalls, added over 150 million cubic meters of flood reserve. we are working closely with our neighbours, germany and the czech republic, to implement the programme. poland is fulfilling its accession obligations in implementing the provisions of the water framework directive in the international area of the oder. i therefore ask: what were the reasons for not granting poland financial aid for this project and what are the possibilities for rapid mobilisation of cohesion fund funds for this purpose?
mr. chairman, please! it is good that a compromise in the council on the future financial perspective was finally reached in december, but the method of so-called 'new year's gifts' used by the british presidency is frivolous and not in keeping with european cohesion policy. the huge cuts in structural funds are not helping to build a europe of solidarity either. the lack of clear criteria for allocating the future reserve fund from the unused cohesion fund is also a concern, which i believe will make europe more diverse than stronger. the first month of the austrian presidency has passed, so it is high time that the new council was ready for concrete talks with parliament. the lack of a negotiating mandate, however, makes it very clear that time is money and the longer we wait for a compromise, the more we risk losing by delaying the implementation of new programmes, especially those linked to the structural policies of an enlarged europe.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. without denying the importance of this huge problem, as a member of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, i would like to remind you that violence does not only affect men, but as a symptom of personal development, it affects both men and women who use less visible but equally offensive psychological violence, as confirmed by studies of the phenomena of violence in homosexual relationships, both male and female. it should be noted that environmental factors, aggressive media, the hedonistic and liberal lifestyle promoted today, with no limits, norms, or prohibitions, and the prevalence of pansexuality and pornography, as well as the treatment of people as things to be bought and sold, all play a major role in the spread of violence. the recent promotion of the gender struggle, modeled on the communist class struggle, does not reduce aggression, but increases it.
mr. chairman, please! violence against women, often ignored or even ignored, is a problem that affects one in three women worldwide. violence by men against women is a crime, a violation of fundamental human rights such as the right to life, safety, dignity and physical integrity. although often prohibited by law, it is still sadly socially acceptable, and statistics show that one billion women worldwide are beaten, forced to have sex, or otherwise abused. this is not just a problem in the third world. even in the european union, an average of three women die every day as a result of domestic violence. it's not far from here, but we've had victims of domestic violence. domestic violence is a major social problem, reflecting historically unequal power relations between men and women. today, every state should stand up for the rights of all its citizens and thus fight discrimination and violence against women by creating and enforcing relevant legislation.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as a woman from poland, where christianity is widely practiced, i have never been discriminated against at home, at school, at university, or at work. unfortunately, discrimination against women can be a threat from european union policies. i therefore cannot understand the author of the report on equal opportunities lamenting the lack of growth in employment for women aged 15 to 24, when young girls should rather be educated and possibly start families. with 2007 being the year of equal opportunities for all, i would like to call for equal opportunities for children, at least the same as we had in our mothers' arms, and not to separate, especially after birth, the child from the mother by sending her to work and the children to care. the idea of giving maternity leave to men instead of women, for whom it is a necessary regeneration after childbirth, and at the same time a necessary adaptation of the child to life after birth, is a curious idea from a medical point of view. especially during the first months of life, a loving mother should be close to her child, whose care is essential for the proper development of newborns, infants, and young children. it would be better to increase family allowances and to include parenting in retirement than to give leave to husbands without maternal instinct, in whom both conscious and instinctive fatherhood awakens much later. i call again for responsibility, for dignity and respect for women and for no experimentation on children.
mr. chairman, please! the eu legislation fully equalises the rights of women and men and recognises this as one of its strategic tasks in the practical respect of human rights. none of us think it should be any different. we are all in favour of progress in those areas where women are not yet treated as equals to men. certainly, women should not be subjected to male aggression, although there are many instances of male violence in modern times. surely women should receive equal pay for equal work. in my country, more women than men go to university and get a university degree, but the fact that these women do not go on to further education or that they do not occupy important positions in business or politics is not, in my opinion, a discrimination against women. it's just that women have different things in life. they have more important and urgent goals to pursue than men. it should not be forgotten that time is a factor that affects men and women differently. women have to have children at a certain point in their lives, and they live longer than men. no one is preventing voters from electing women to the european parliament, for example. it's not our fault that women choose men. i personally voted for the best candidate in our region, and it was a woman. the whole charm of the world is that man exists in two versions, male and female, and that's the creator or, as you like, nature. they decided that although they were equals, men and women were different: both physically and in their different roles in society. unfortunately, their economic situation is also different. they're also a little different psychologically. i encourage women to see the positive aspects of being a woman and to understand that having the same amount of time as men doesn't always mean the same.
mr president, i would like to make a few comments. the victim of violence, especially sexual violence, often suffers more psychological than physical harm. in order to ensure adequate assistance from the staff concerned, i propose an amendment which meets that request. (b) providing proper training, including a child's perspective, to the staff of competent bodies dealing with men's violence against women, such as police officers, judicial staff, health personnel, educators, youth and social workers and prison staff; other i propose the following change: providing proper training, specifically psychological, including a child's perspective (...) the rapporteur has agreed to this wording.
in writing. violence against women is a traumatic experience. not just for themselves, their children and their loved ones, but even for people who want to help women. i've seen it firsthand. i once took a woman who was beaten by her husband to the hospital and then to the police. i was struck by a feeling that i think women often have - impotent rage. the same rage is felt when a drunken man convicted of domestic violence is driven to his ex-wife's apartment by the police. the police say it's because that was the last address he checked in to. a tragic story happened in my town a few years ago. a man escaped from the sobriety room (which is not a prison), walked several miles, killed his wife, and threw her body out the window. i don't want anything like this to happen again. violence is not an internal family matter. there is no justification for it, no attempt to make it relative. violence is a problem that the whole society has to face. we cannot afford to ignore this problem, to minimize its importance to society, or to hide the scale of the phenomenon. i supported mr carlshamre's report because it is our duty to do everything possible to eliminate violence against women. zero tolerance is not always necessary, but in this case it is absolutely necessary.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the fate of anton kuznetsov, a russian citizen who left russia for poland over 10 years ago and applied for political asylum. at the time of his conscription, anton kuznecov left russia because of the stigma he faced as a homosexual and human rights activist. polish authorities have refused him political asylum and intend to deport him to russia. reports from human rights organizations, including the council of europe, state that homosexuals in russia are subject to repression. kuznetsov is facing military service in russia in a penal battalion with criminals, and according to amnesty international, this could mean that he, as a homosexual, could even face death. kuzniecow is currently at risk of being subjected to harassment and humiliation in poland, the callousness of officials, and above all, immediate deportation detention. anton kuzniecov wants to rebuild his life in freedom and respect for his rights. the european union remains for him a symbol of human rights and a decent life. the european parliament cannot remain indifferent to his situation.
mr. chairman, please! the reaction of muslim countries to the cartoons of muhammad in the danish press is the best proof of the huge cultural and civilizational gap between christian-based countries and muslim countries. muslims don't know the difference between a joke and reality, but our culture is based on metaphors and symbols, like descartes, who doubted the existence of the world for a long time. this misunderstanding is for me another proof that muslim countries, including turkey, have no place in europe. it's also proof that the muslim world needs our help. we're willing to give it to him, but at a distance.
mr. chairman, please! verbal freedom in the european union, through directives and regulations, not only limits the shape of a banana, the amount of milk produced, or the temperature of the water in the sink, but also allows a free market only for monopolies, causes media terrorism and violence outraged by the cartoons of the followers of muhammad that we are witnessing. the right to freedom of thought and expression sanctioned by the universal declaration of human rights cannot include the right to insult the religious feelings of believers, which should apply to every religion. in poland we know the gospel truths - a good tree produces good fruit, or you can know them by their fruit. therefore, we should learn from recent events, implementing human rights and democracy, so that freedom of expression does not mean disrespect and lack of responsibility. freedom without ethical and moral principles becomes a destructive arbitrariness, even a dictatorship of relativism.
mr. chairman, please! the european commission has presented a report on the functioning of restrictions on access to labour markets for citizens from the new member states in the fifteen. the report clearly shows that the fears about the opening up of labour markets have proved unfounded. the scale of the flow of workers to the old countries is small, and the countries that have opened up their labour markets have benefited from this. unfortunately, despite these obvious conclusions, most of the remaining member states want to continue to maintain the existing restrictions for the coming years. i would like to ask why the commission, in the light of the conclusions of its own report and acting as guardian of the treaties, does not demand more forcefully that discriminatory restrictions on access to labour markets in other countries be abolished. why tolerate the maintenance of restrictions which are not only contrary to the treaty and the spirit of european integration but also inhibit economic growth in the union, weaken its competitiveness and foster pathologies such as undeclared work and fictitious self-employment? i expect the commission to demand in a strong way that these harmful restrictions be removed.
mr. chairman, please! recently, several european newspapers published cartoons of muhammad, thus mocking islam. in retaliation, muslims burned european flags and embassies, and an italian priest was murdered in trabzon, turkey. this escalation of violence and hatred has been caused and provoked by the liberal, leftist media, which has long been anti-religious. in the name of a false conception of freedom, what is sacred to millions of people is being desecrated - that is, faith and god. we see the media becoming a conduit for anti-culture, religious intolerance and moral nihilism. one man's freedom ends where another man's begins. freedom of speech in the media cannot mean violating the freedom and rights of other people. freedom does not insult, does not despise, does not mock, does not humiliate, does not mock the sacred. freedom is respect for the dignity, beliefs and lives of others. let us remember this in the face of europe's growing cultural abnegation. let's go back to the roots of latin civilization, where there is no place for the religious hatred that is present today in the european media.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the regulation we are debating introduces high standards of animal welfare and protection for broiler chickens. these standards are needed. in the european union we should strive to ensure that animals are treated in the most humane way possible, especially animals for slaughter, animals raised for meat, including broilers. out of our sense of humanity, out of respect for the norms of our civilization, we should spare animals unnecessary suffering. and we should also do this for our health, because meat from animals that are raised in bad conditions, raised under constant stress, is simply less healthy, as numerous scientific studies have shown. but there is a problem of a different nature. this regulation imposes high standards on broiler farmers in the european union and does not apply to importers. ensuring high standards costs and weakens the competitiveness of our producers in relation to non-eu producers who export poultrymeat from farmed animals to the european market without ensuring these high standards. this threatens to ruin many broiler farms, which have to meet such high standards in the european union, making them uncompetitive. not only for the sake of broilers, but also for the sake of broiler farmers and above all for the sake of consumers, the same high standards should be required not only from eu producers but also from imports. the committee on agriculture has accepted the amendment by the uen group calling on the european commission to ensure that these high standards are also applied to imports. the same requirements for union producers as for importers.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mrs edith herczog's report contains a whole list of very valid observations. europe needs major changes, especially the creation of a genuine common market in services and labour, which is closed to many europeans today - otherwise europe will lose out in global competition. but let's be honest, how many times have we heard this? citizens of the new eu countries are only allowed to work in the three countries of the old union. the overwhelming majority of the countries in the union still do not believe that cheaper labour and cheaper competitive services are good for the economy, that they stimulate it, and therefore give rise to growth and employment and income. the more national markets for services and labour are protected, the more jobs and services are moving outside the union, not to warsaw or budapest, but to delhi and beijing. we need more action and less talk. the first test of our true intentions will come on thursday with the vote on the services directive. we will have the opportunity to show whether we want a genuine common market or whether we are content with the cheap tricks of the market, with empty declarations and blaming the evil and ruthless world that is simply eluding us.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the functioning of the internal market offers citizens enormous opportunities, but unfortunately the internal market itself often does not function properly. problems with interpretation of the law continue to arise, often in an unclear and inconsistent manner. this means that both individuals and businesses face various obstacles in their activities. in such cases, the solvit programme may be the one to provide the assistance. the network's unquestionable advantage is that it deals with complaints from both citizens and businesses and is obliged to find a solution to the problem in a short time. it is also important that solvit is free of charge, solving 75% of the cases it receives, according to official statistics. solvit is a tool that allows the european union to determine whether the law that has already been adopted is being properly applied by the member states. another advantage of the network is that solvit's negotiating skills enable it to find solutions to even complex problems much faster and much cheaper than if the case were in court. to ensure a high quality of operation, solvit has recently introduced many facilities for communication between networks and individuals or businesses seeking solutions to problems. this also makes my parliamentary office a solvit partner, so that people in my region can turn to my assistants with their problems and get help through us. given the successes of the solvit network so far, i believe that it should be further developed. i therefore fully support the proposal to increase the number of human resources by far beyond the four officials currently assigned. the idea of the european solvit programme as a tool for solving internal market problems is certainly a good one and deserves strong support. but as politicians responsible for making laws, we should first of all be concerned with creating a law that is clear, transparent and wise - a law that meets the expectations of citizens and businesses, a law that gives an opportunity for economic development, for the creation of a true single market, which was a sincere and valid concept of the founding fathers of the european union, which unfortunately has not been fully realized. during this parliamentary term we can make a real contribution to making up for the huge backlog in the creation of a single market for services. let's not give in to the blackmail of the street, let's give a clear signal that parliament has the will to create a real single market where there will be no problems for solvit to solve. let us support the draft services directive by the european commission.
mr. chairman, please! if, 100 years from now, our successors assess the european union's core values and strengths, they will find that one of the union's main reasons for existing was to defend and promote human rights in the world. we should always hold the standard of human rights high and not bend it to suit the circumstances. and that's what happens sometimes. i mean, the famous double standard. when we demand respect for human rights and condemn states that do not, and we are silent or whisper about human rights when it comes to the largest states or states that are particularly important economically for business in the member states of the union. the curse of these double standards is a stain on the union's honour, a stain on the blue flag with the golden stars. human rights must also be understood in an economic context, which is why we support the debt relief of developing countries, as mr martinez has said, but we also support controls on the use of eu funds so that they do not support dictatorships in africa or asia. it is worth stressing the need to include clauses on human rights and democracy in the sectoral agreements we conclude in areas such as agriculture, fisheries and textiles. finally, when it comes to human rights, you can never say that everything that needed to be done has been done.
mr. chairman, please! the effective respect of the human rights clause depends above all on the political will of the member states, whose pursuit of their own interests often prevents the union from taking effective action. our task today is to ensure that human rights clauses are introduced in a way that allows effective pressure to be exerted on third countries. it's not enough to announce rules and requirements today. you have to follow them, but it takes a lot of courage and determination. i regret to say that i often find fear and opportunism in the behaviour of eu leaders. too often, economic and political interests override the need to react quickly to flagrant cases of restrictions on freedom and the humiliation of others. the principle of solidarity is becoming an unnecessary burden, and should be the basic tool of european union policy. the human rights clauses must therefore be equipped with the appropriate tools of persuasion and political pressure. this in turn requires a change in the approach to the common foreign and security policy, the constant element of which should be the constant struggle to defend the principles of democracy and freedom. there is also a lack of european institutions that, like us government foundations, would effectively support human rights defenders around the world. this is what the proposed fundamental rights agency should be for, which should be called the human rights agency. in 2005, the union's business, political and energy interests were at the forefront. this is the conclusion of the annual report on human rights observance by human rights watch. today, it is not enough to speak critically about totalitarian regimes and dictatorships. the european union must demonstrate its will to uphold fundamental rights in the world. is anyone in the european union today working to restrict the freedom of speech and the activities of ngos in russia? will anyone sacrifice trade deals with china in exchange for the release of tibetan clerics held in prison for alleged subversive activities? can we finally afford to take a bold stand against the cuban regime? i'd like to end by joining the protest against google's web browser and not using it today. google has made a special version of its browser available to chinese websites, controlled by the chinese government. this is how content that doesn't conform to chinese propaganda is censored.
mr. chairman, please! human rights and democracy are the foundations on which the european union was built. the human rights policies of the european community and the international community as a whole contributed significantly to the collapse of undemocratic regimes in southern europe in the 1970s and in central and eastern europe after 1989. human rights and democracy are now the axis around which the european union's foreign and security policy is shaped. the union's foreign policy is to build a global order based on peace, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, sustainable development and sustainable growth. the human rights and democracy clause should now be extended to all agreements concluded by the european union with third countries, both industrialised and developing, as well as to sectoral agreements, trade exchanges, technical or financial assistance. the relevant institutions of the european union, including the european parliament, should have the right under this clause to effectively monitor the respect for human rights and democratic principles by the contracting party to the european union. in this respect, the interrelationships between respect for human rights, democracy and development should be borne in mind. the fight against poverty is not possible without general principles that take into account the protection of human rights, the rule of law and respect for democratic values. the good solution would be to recommend in the agreement that the eu and the signatory country provide each other with annual reports on human rights, and to provide for a mechanism for consultation with ngos. e election observation missions and the assistance that the european union should provide to civil societies in third countries are of particular importance for the protection and promotion of human rights and democracy outside the european union.
mr. chairman, please! promoting respect for human rights and democratisation in third countries is without doubt one of the fundamental objectives of the european union's external relations policy. however, this objective will not be achieved if the content of international agreements focuses exclusively on economic and political issues. it is therefore essential to include a human rights and democracy clause in agreements on trade, technical and financial assistance, for example. the possibility of suspending economic cooperation for serious violations of fundamental freedoms in third countries will enable the european union to act more quickly and effectively in defence of human rights. this process should also be accompanied by increased involvement of the european parliament in the consultation process on the content of agreements and clauses and their implementation and enforcement. with an effective system for monitoring respect for fundamental freedoms, backed up by the possibility of applying economic sanctions, we will finally move from words to deeds, because the european parliament's previous resolutions in defence of human rights have very often been just important words that remain on paper.
member of the commission. mr president, this has been a very valuable discussion on the human rights clause and on human rights and democracy in general. let us not forget that human rights issues are already being raised systematically with partners in political dialogues. we have established dedicated human rights dialogue and consultations with certain countries, and human rights subcommittees have also been established. in other cases, human rights may be raised at association councils and at association committee meetings. the purpose of the human rights clause is not simply to make it possible to impose sanctions, but also to create a basis for human rights dialogue and for the setting-up of institutions concerned with it, because we need to give such institutions a chance and encourage them to develop. institution building is as important as the clause, and the existence of the human rights clause in the association agreement, or in partnership and cooperation agreements, creates the basis for this. therefore there is no need to replicate this in sectoral agreements. i also want to recall that our agreements have a wide range of policy goals. we want to contribute to stability and to the increase of welfare for all the populations concerned. it is not a lack of courage if we do not always have the same human rights clause or if we do not apply sanctions. we also have to contribute to the development of a population – look at the african, and some asian, populations, as some of you mentioned. there is also freedom from want and freedom from fear, which are closely related to human rights and to the human security concept. that means we cannot throw the baby out with the bathwater. there are many other clauses to defend, such as the clause against terrorism, the clause against weapons of mass destruction and the clause for democracy. it is all interlinked and we cannot focus only on human rights; we have to see the whole picture, which includes poverty eradication. this is the difficult balance that we have to strike sometimes. it is not easy to harmonise this clause, because we are negotiating with every partner and we have to find solutions in the end. not every partner accepts exactly the same wording. however, it is not so much about wording but about application and the way we can encourage the partners to come up with their own solutions, because, as we have always made clear, we do not want to impose everything on the others: we want to encourage their societies to build and to change. as i have already said, institution building is just as important, as are legal, judicial and police reform, because that is where human rights are applied. finally, i should like to say that, with all due respect, in many individual cases we have been able to get people out of prison and to talk about them. we speak about the death penalty with each and every partner, we speak against torture, and slowly these things come through. maybe sometimes the issue is speed – not everything is being done at the same time. but let us be realistic: we cannot change the world in a day.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr michael brejc on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing rules on local border traffic at the external land borders of the member states and amending the schengen convention and the common consular instructions (com ((2005) 0056 - c6-0049/2005 - 2005/0006cod)) (a6-0406/2005).
mr. chairman, please! i welcome the fact that the facilitation of local border traffic has taken the form of a regulation. this means that these regulations will be applied directly by all countries throughout the european union without the need to implement them into national legal systems. this regulation is of particular importance for the union as a whole, but in particular for those states which are responsible for security at the external borders: poland, my country, has the longest external land border in the european union, and we welcome the facilitation that the regulation brings. it is clear that there is a different dimension to the border for the inhabitants of the interior, the central part of each country, and another for the inhabitants of the border regions. for these last ones, the boundaries are part of their daily lives, they are their constant, practical experience. they're the ones who have to live with the consequences of her existence. and that is why i hope that there will be no difficulties and no administrative blockages, because borders cannot be an obstacle to cultural, social and regional cooperation. what does the regulation give us in terms of content? the regulation ensures equality within the union, solidarity with its close neighbours, a sense of unity and the abolition of artificial divisions, and will also stimulate cooperation between regions. in practice, however, i am convinced that it will eliminate the queues at the consulates of those countries which have granted visas, and at the same time eliminate corruption in the issuing of these documents. the last sentence. with this regulation, if we adopt it, we send a signal that the european union is not an inaccessible fortress, it is not a european fortress. the union is not only abolishing internal borders, but is also opening up to the outside world. and a bit pathetically, our nearest neighbours will be able to enter with their heads held high, albeit briefly, and not - as so far - on their knees.
mr. chairman, please! the introduction of facilitation at external borders in local border traffic is a step in the right direction. however, much will depend on the member states themselves implementing the provisions of this regulation. the question is whether the target group of beneficiaries of such a move will be large and whether the reasons for introducing the regime coincide with those indicated in the draft regulation, namely family and social cohesion, cultural or economic cooperation. the ability of neighbouring countries to ensure full reciprocity for the effective implementation of readmission agreements will also be a challenge. when implementing the low-traffic regime, member states will have to take a very responsible approach to prevent the new bis system from being used for cross-border crime, smuggling or organising illegal immigration. it can therefore be concluded that the project under discussion is only paving the way for the establishment of local border traffic at our external borders and that its actual establishment must be continuously monitored through a cost-benefit analysis in terms of the real benefits for the communities living in border areas in accordance with security requirements. the assessment of this may differ in the different member states on the external borders of the union. in conclusion, if we are serious about talking about comprehensive solutions to make our external borders friendly to traveling third-country nationals, while maintaining all the necessary security requirements, we should coordinate the efforts of all institutions and member states to ensure the full and rapid application of the schengen acquis by the ten new member states, which will benefit from the possibility of issuing short-term schengen visas, with a more transparent visa policy towards their neighbours. in addition, the possibility of extending the use of national long-stay multiple-entry visas should be jointly considered where the use of local border traffic in the proposed form is not cost-effective and attractive to the border community, which is more interested in facilitating access to the entire territory of the neighbouring country rather than to a narrowly delineated area.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i would like again to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and all the speakers. thanks to the contribution of each institution, the balance between facilitation on the one hand and security on the other has been maintained and this regulation, as was rightly said, will also be very helpful in strengthening the local development of important european regions near to the external borders. the introduction of a specific local border traffic permit for border residents will help in identifying those people who have the right to benefit from the facilitated border crossing regime. member states will have the right to scrutinise carefully people requesting this permit. however, i think that is fully justified by the advantages deriving from such a permit. first of all, holders of the permit will no longer need to be in possession of a visa, and a visa exemption for the holders of a local border traffic permit will be included very soon in the forthcoming commission proposal revising the relevant visa regulation which i will put forward by the end of march. later in the spring i will also present the new document on the common consular instruction for issuing a visa. on the basis of this regulation, member states will be able to provide some practical facilitation such as specific border crossing points reserved for border residents and give them the possibility in very exceptional cases to cross the border outside authorised border crossing points. to counterbalance that, member states will have to ensure regular surveillance of border areas in order to avoid the misuse of the local border traffic regime and provide for specific sanctions. finally, the commission will report on the implementation of the local border traffic regime two years after the entry into force of the regulation, proposing modifications if necessary. i would like to conclude my remarks by stressing that i very much hope parliament will confirm with its vote its support for the proposal made by the rapporteur, and i will encourage the council to do the same as soon as possible. (applause)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr mechtild rothe on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on heating and cooling from renewable energy sources (ini 2005/2122) (a6-0020/2006).
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to thank mrs. roth for the report she prepared. the issue of heating and cooling, the use of renewable energy sources is part of a larger problem of energy security in the european union. energy saving is not only an environmental protection but also an important part of the economy, linked also to the development of renewable energy sources. recent examples of energy terrorism, fuel price increases that negatively affect the economic condition of businesses and the standard of living of citizens, underline the importance of the problem. i would like to address three problems. first, the assumption that energy saving programmes will be implemented by 2020 is a static approach to the issues, which does not take into account the global market. it's going to stay put. secondly, tax breaks and vat reductions require all the activities of energy conservation, recovery and the creation of new renewable energy sources. third, the need to accelerate the development of unused agricultural land for the production of biomass and renewable fuels, due to the regulation of agricultural production in the european union and the lack of appropriate subsidies for fruit production, such as soft fruit and vegetables. the area of unused land will grow. there will be an increase in unemployment and the impoverishment of the rural population. the rapid development of biomass and fuel production will create jobs and increase the energy security of our countries.
on behalf of the uen group. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. one of the several fundamental objectives of the founding countries of the european economic community was to create an internal market in which people, goods, capital and services could move freely. today, almost 50 years later, that goal has not been reached. in the services sector, any activity outside the domestic market is still considered to be the provision of a service abroad, rather than within an entity such as the european union. thousands of regulations and permits effectively hold back the development of the entire european service economy, which today accounts for 70% of the european union's gdp. the european court of justice has repeatedly upheld the rights of service providers to enjoy the freedom of establishment and the free movement of their services in other member states. there is ample empirical evidence that full implementation of the proposed directive will create 600 000 additional jobs across the european union, reduce existing barriers to the provision of services by more than 50%, reduce the price of services covered by the directive to the benefit of both consumers and businesses using those services, and benefit european consumers, businesses and governments through increased productivity, employment and wages. during this session, we will have the opportunity to show what europeans we are. i believe we will demonstrate the virtues of courage, responsibility and wisdom. i appreciate the idea of compromise, which has a long tradition in parliament. but i cannot accept that, despite the difficult compromise reached in the report of the committee on the internal market, some responsible political groups may once again succumb to the politics of fear, blackmail and sham reforms, because what else would it be to accept a further reduction in the scope of the directive and the abolition of the fundamental principle of the country of origin? i also hope that parliament will not agree to the removal from the directive of the provisions prohibiting the existence of unlawful barriers to posted workers. these barriers do not apply to citizens of these or other countries, but they restrict the freedoms and opportunities of all europeans, consumers and businesses. in my final sentence, i would like to appeal to the president of the european commission, mr barroso, and to commissioner mccreevy, to continue their efforts to create a genuine common market and to develop europe's economy. this is what the citizens of europe expect of you.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on petitions. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the committee on petitions voted in favour of the original draft services directive. we were optimistic about the original proposal, and the earlier one, which was put forward by commissioner bolkestein. i have to pay attention to that. when we discussed this matter in the committee on petitions, we also said that we understood european integration primarily in the way we agreed to it. and we agreed on the four fundamental freedoms. this concept of the four fundamental freedoms was the concept that was to give europe a new chance. it was to give europe a chance to implement the lisbon strategy. we wanted to achieve european integration. we want european integration, but we want european integration as we have agreed. and we agreed on european integration, first and foremost in the economic field. we regret the various statements that some of the new member states are not contributing to integration. but we did not reject the european constitution, and we do not want to untie the european economy today. i must say, i'm alarmed by the idea of a compromise here that would settle our differences. they will cause a rift and thus mislead the public. and the public should know that just as opinion is divided, so are we in this room, and we want economic freedom, and we don't want to agree to the impression that nobody really wants that economic freedom, that nobody wants to help europe become a major force, not one of the major forces of european success. i regret to hear about social dumping here. that's a bad word for a normal, healthy economy. i'm not surprised at the joy of those who demonstrate here, because it seems they're going to achieve their success. they'll achieve the success that well-paid union activists always achieve.
madam president! the original text of the bolkestein directive was an opportunity for a europe of 25 but also an opportunity for a europe of 15. today, little of it remains. the selfishness of some countries and the preference of their national interests over european interests have overtaken the principle of solidarity. is it not true that the concern for social gains is not the concern for national markets? what value does the compromise between left and right have, and can it be trusted? the recent debate on the european constitution in france showed the fear of the latest enlargement of the union, and yet negotiations with turkey were opened. it is not the new member states that should be seen as a threat to the union. the services directive in its original form was an opportunity to eliminate unfair conditions for the accession of new countries without the right to work in the union with very low subsidies for agriculture, while foreign supermarkets and other companies, including many french ones, make incredible profits in poland by employing people for 1/5 of the price, on sundays, until 10 pm, paying almost no taxes to the polish state. mr. schulz, the socialist leader, don't worry about us. our countries know better than we do what's best for us. this ambitious perspective seems to have been buried, even though it was part of the lisbon strategy. we had a choice of going to a better europe by high-speed train or by bicycle, and we chose the bicycle. on valentine's day, the members of the old union and the new union have no special reason to show their love.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as an austrian and a styrian, but the son of a german mother, mr president, i am pleased to hear that your supplementary question is in agreement. renewable energy sources and since, of course, biomass, but not only biomass will certainly have in the coming months and years because the price of oil will never fall to $10 or $20 a barrel increased market opportunities, and this is good, because it is an opportunity to increase the independence of europe, whereas we should not be deceived: it may be possible to reduce the degree of increase in dependence on fossil fuels, but only the degree of increase, not the degree of dependence. at the same time, for some landscapes and for some - especially farmers - this means additional sources of income, not only food production but also energy crops. in fact, biomass, renewable raw materials, could in the long term be the source not only of carbon but indirectly of hydrocarbons, which are then used to power individual motor vehicles. i believe that in the long term the path for power stations and the like may go in a different direction, but that in particular fossil fuels, which are now used almost exclusively for transport, can be replaced step by step by renewable raw materials and hydrocarbons from this source. and again, the chances are better, it's easier to make renewable resources, renewable energy sources marketable, when the market price of a barrel of crude oil is 60 dollars, or when a kilowatt hour of electricity is about two and a half times as expensive today as it was two years ago, which is 50 euros for a megawatt hour today. i remember when the price was 20 euros.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. what europe needs is a coherent energy policy, an energy policy which is more focused on commonalities. we must learn the lessons, on the one hand, from the climate change issue, on the other hand, from the issue of a significant increase in the price of fossil fuels - not only, but above all, because of the lack of refinery capacity, plus hurricanes, plus geopolitical difficulties - and also the lessons of 1 and 2 january this year, when, for whatever reasons, russian natural gas flowed to europe in a much reduced quantity through ukrainian pipelines. these are three occasions which must lead us to rethink our thinking. once again, we must assume that europe's dependence on imports, especially fossil fuels, will increase in the coming years - probably decades. but this should not prevent us from relying more on our own renewable energy sources and ultimately also turning the screw on energy efficiency. i agree with the commission that it is difficult enough to get the member states to commit themselves to 1% per annum now. we shall see whether we can accept a 2% commitment in future. we all have opportunities in the area of energy efficiency and can improve things, with the new member states generally having greater potential. their output gross domestic product per unit of energy consumed is significantly lower than in eu-15 countries, where the energy decoupling of energy consumption, gross domestic product and growth started as early as the 1970s, following the 1973 and 1974 oil shocks. we need a coherent energy policy which does not leave out any of the options already discussed here: renewable energy sources, increased energy efficiency, but at the same time diversification in terms of fossil fuels, i.e. gas, and of course diversification in terms of pipelines. the basic problem was not the lack of gas, but the basic problem on 1 and 2 january was the only pipeline through ukraine that supplies many european countries, with 80% of the total gas coming from russia to europe passing through this pipeline. it is certainly useful here for germany and russia to conclude agreements at the level of their societies. it is certainly of great importance that the european parliament and the european commission also support the nabucco gas pipeline project, which could bring about 12 billion cubic metres of gas per year from 2011 and about 30 billion cubic metres per year from 2020 from the caspian region via turkey to central europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is also necessary now to reduce dependence. i also welcome the announcements made by russia and its finance minister at the g8 summit in moscow in recent days, that they will reconsider and lift the export monopoly held by gazprom. unfortunately, no one said when that would be, but the announcement was made. although cooperation with gazprom has proven successful, this means that we will be able to talk, negotiate and work with other russian partners at some point in the future. i believe that the way in which europe has so far liberalized and deregulated the energy sector is an important and correct one. it has also contributed in particular to price stability, but we must strike a balance in the next few years between increasing security of supply - ultimately giving investors the certainty of making a return on their investment with long-term contracts - and still creating more of a european energy internal market, integrating also south-eastern europe, also ukraine, perhaps also russia. if this is not about the energy charter, then perhaps it is about the energy community, and that is a concrete proposal which the commission is likely to put forward in the next few weeks. we have to turn all these wheels. energy policy is a top priority and we have seen just in the last few months how important it is.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. on the subject of the kyoto protocol and climate change, i would like to inform the european parliament that former us president bill clinton, when asked at the world economic forum in davos what he saw as the world's priorities for the next few years, gave the highest priority to climate change. this may sound a little presumptuous from an american point of view, but it was the former american president who said this, and he signed the kyoto protocol. but the american congress didn't ratify it then, as we know. i agree with you and many others that climate protection is a top priority. we need it. the world's climate is in danger. however, we as europeans must bear in mind that we are responsible for about 14% of global co2 emissions today, and in 2050 it will be about 10%. that means 86% of carbon emissions today and 90% in the future come from elsewhere. it is a big difference whether we as the european union are acting almost alone or whether we at least have our partner - but of course also our competitor - the united states on board. but that is not foreseeable from today's perspective. the next question, of course, is how do we deal with countries like china and india? they're not bound by the kyoto protocol. i'm assuming that these countries will say, and you have to understand this, you europeans produce about 10 tons of co2 per capita per year, the americans produce about 20 tons of co2, and we're somewhere between one and two tons. let us first bring our industrial and other development to your level, and then we will take part in climate action. it is a very sensitive issue to get china, india and other developing and emerging countries on board as soon as possible and to make our arguments understood. we as europeans should take a further step forward, but at the same time we should also keep our competitiveness in mind and pursue climate protection at the lowest possible cost. joint implementation is always something that makes sense. if i can invest in european countries, for example in the new member states, and save co2 with relatively less investment than in the eu-15 member states, then this is the way to go, and this is what the kyoto protocol provides for. this means that climate protection is of the utmost importance. at the same time, we are aware that energy prices are linked to competitiveness and hence to jobs. we are on the right track and we will see in the next few months how the second phase of the post-kyoto phase is implemented in the member states of the union and how the national allocation plans are drawn up. the trading of co2 allowances has started well and the prices are much higher than expected. there was talk of 10 euros per tonne, but the last quotation i know is 28 euros, almost three times as much. if we say to european industrial companies that they are being allocated less than in the past, we must find a good reason for this. i am pleading very clearly here, in the interests of jobs in our good old europe, that we should be very, very careful and cautious in our energy-intensive economy and industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but we must not risk jobs being moved out of europe to countries which, for the time being, do not care about climate protection.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank god that the vulnerability of our economy, our gross domestic product, to the effects of energy prices is much lower today than in 1973/74. the oecd and the european commission estimate that the vulnerability, the sensitivity, has been reduced by about half, because of the much greater energy efficiency of our economy and our production. but of course, that means that we are not going to be able to easily handle oil price increases from 30 to 60 dollars today, and there are voices - i hope they are never right - that are predicting three-digit prices in the near future. as far as gas is concerned, it must be said in honour of our russian friends that their intention was to demand world market prices from ukraine. the world market prices are again to be relativised here - or rather, the prices which are common in europe, about 220 dollars per thousand cubic metres. this was finally agreed at the negotiations between gasprom and ukraine on the night of 3 to 4 january. the compromise is that - now that the contracts have been formulated and signed - a mix between russian gas at around $220 and gas from central asia, which is much cheaper to import, will be constructed, and the mix price for ukraine will be around $95. as for world market prices and european gas prices, it is important to know that the americans buy gas at prices that are several tens of percent higher than those in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. this, too, is a case for a more long-term approach to energy policy, for a stronger partnership. this dialogue between the european union and russia on the one hand and opec on the other must be continued and intensified. a higher degree of transparency is desirable here, and trust is built in both partner groups. i would also strongly urge that we think more about not just meeting with energy producers but also establishing a dialogue with consumers. it is important that we europeans agree with the japanese, the americans and other consumers in the same way, in order to achieve what the producing countries also want, namely longterm stable price conditions. it is a mistake to think that the opec countries' main interest is to get to 100 dollars as quickly as possible. they know very well that this would be short-lived and that market forces would allow a relapse to a relatively low level. they also know very well that the functioning of our economy, the continuous growth, is ultimately important for their oil and gas sales. there is therefore a very common interest in creating stable and reliable energy markets and in ensuring security of supply and price stability. we shall be making good progress in this area in the next few months. the green paper which the commission is discussing these days is not officially called a green paper, but it is one. it will be a guide for us in the future.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as this is my first appearance as a question-and-answerer in the european parliament, i am now bound by the tradition of my parliament, where the question is repeated again. but i shall be learning that by the end of our presidency. it's still four and a half months away. complementary occupational pensions an important issue also in the context of our concept of flexicurity. the council has already started to examine the commission proposal for a directive to improve the portability of supplementary pension entitlements, which was submitted at the end of october 2005. the council's preparatory body, the council's working party on social affairs, which is responsible for examining the dossier, will have discussed the proposal in six meetings by the end of february. the austrian presidency has included the proposal in its draft agenda for the council meeting. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. i do not want to hide the fact that there are still some key issues to be clarified here, apart from the general complexity, but in principle i believe that this will be and must be a very important contribution to better mobility for workers in europe.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr karas, this proposal for a directive is a step in the direction we want and must take. if you want to ensure the mobility of workers across europe, you must also enable them to take with them, more or less easily, any additional pension rights they have acquired. on the other hand, we are very quick to see that in the field of social security each country has its own good traditions and that therefore harmonization would be doomed from the start. we don't want that. one size fits all certainly does not work in the area of social security. where it is sensible and appropriate to set minimum standards, this is therefore always an issue. in the field of pension entitlements, we should not forget that the vast majority of european countries have a system of contributions as the basis of state protection. at the same time, we know that it would be useful to supplement this system of contribution-financing in part by a system of capital-backed financing, also in the public sector. in addition, the possibility of taking into account the income situation of european workers and contributors should naturally favour private pension provision, company provision. i assume that this will remain for a long time within the competence and decision-making authority of the member states, and that this directive should also establish ways in which european workers and european insured persons can take their claims throughout europe more easily than before, and this is of course much easier than before through the introduction of minimum standards.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we know that mobility among europe's citizens is less pronounced than elsewhere. many of the figures presented show that mobility in the united states is twice as high as in europe. we cannot, in europe, remove language barriers overnight - and perhaps we do not even want to do so - nor can we have federal principles, such as we know from the united states, overnight. but it does mean that our young people as a whole have the opportunity to be more mobile and to have a european market in terms of interesting jobs and career opportunities. with these restrictions, since we certainly do not want to have american conditions overnight, more mobility for workers and young people is something we are striving for. the aim is to introduce step-by-step measures to improve the mobility of workers. i can point out that, in addition to this specific directive, the european commission has declared 2006 the year of mobility, and that there will be a job portal, eures, which will now be presented in an improved form at a meeting in the coming days, namely on 20 and 21 february in brussels. that's where the official launch is. i myself will have the honour of participating, but commission president barroso has also spoken, commissioner špidla and the president of the european parliament have also spoken. 'mobility, a tool for more and better jobs' will be discussed at length and will be followed by workshops. it is not just the directive on the portability of supplementary pension entitlements, it is a mainstream one that we want. it is also important that there should be a best practice process, initiated between public authorities, trade unions and the private sector. but it is also about expanding the knowledge base. so overall, it is an important part of the lisbon strategy. we are at the beginning of the european year of mobility 2006; the final conference will be held under the finnish presidency in november. but i think it is good that there are already plans to establish a follow-up to this first european year of mobility.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that the same standards should be applied to all levels of education in europe - and this includes to a large extent apprentices in vocational training in german-speaking countries - as were applied in previous years to people with tertiary or academic education. i know that there are best practice examples in austria of the possibility of apprenticeships abroad, especially for apprentices in training. i think it is absolutely necessary - with all due respect for all the language regimes we have in europe - to give young people the opportunity to use english as a language of mobility. i hope that i will not be overwhelmed by protests from paris or elsewhere. if we want to offer european young people job opportunities throughout europe, we must of course also be prepared to set up programmes and award scholarships during their training so that young people can first try out this mobility in the context of such programmes, which should then lead later in their working lives to the fact that they actually take up jobs in another european country.
we are continuing the debate on the report by evelyne gebhardt on services in the internal market.
mr. chairman, please! the european common market was to be based on three freedoms: the free movement of goods and services, the free movement of capital and the free movement of people. the application of the former has allowed the old member states to achieve trade surpluses of tens of billions of euros in the last few years, for example in trade with poland, which in turn has meant the maintenance of hundreds of thousands of jobs in these countries. the latter allowed entrepreneurs from the old union to participate in the privatisation of state treasury assets in poland on extremely attractive terms, especially in the banking and insurance sector. unfortunately, where these freedoms can bring more clear benefits to the new member states, namely in terms of the free movement of labour and the freedom to provide services, we face serious limitations. the so-called services directive could improve this situation a little. unfortunately, the current draft presented in mrs evelyne gebhardt's report deviates significantly from the one presented to the european commission and has less and less to do with the idea of the free movement of services. this is all the more puzzling when nearly 70% of the eu's gdp is in services, and the free flow of services would undoubtedly help to accelerate gdp growth, not only in the new member states but also in the old ones.
mr. chairman, please! the growth rate of the european union has been declining for years, and recently it has fallen below 2% per year. the world is running away. why is this happening? because in global competition, those who can reduce costs and prices, create new products, win. the european union is losing the race because it has an expensive agriculture and an erroneous, economically costly and inefficient policy to finance this sector. the union is an expensive industry because it is burdened with extensive social benefits and a common customs policy, costly bureaucratic regulations and controls, and most importantly, the union has expensive services. the sector with the highest share of employment, but where access to the market is denied to cheaper service providers. trying to stop the liberalization of services is like trying to stop the import of cheap consumer goods from asia it's costly and ineffective. costly because it requires a large administrative apparatus, and inefficient because it contributes to the expansion of illegal services, performed at the expense of the employee. the defenders of the existing rules in the services sector in the union argue that they protect jobs for their citizens, they protect against rising unemployment. my answer is, look at ireland and the uk, which have opened up their labour markets. has the pace of work there gone up or down? is unemployment decreasing or increasing? the answer is simple: the service sector labor market has led to an acceleration in economic growth. in my view, the key to accelerating the union's development is the development of services, thereby reducing the costs of production and consumption, the expansion of the market and the influx of new technology. only cheap services can, if not solve this, at least alleviate the problem of finding the means to... (the president read out the minutes)
mr. chairman, please! almost every debate we have in this parliament raises the question of the challenges facing the european union in today's world of global competition. we would like europe to develop dynamically and become the most competitive economy in the world in a few years' time. the european people are counting on it too and believe that our decisions here in this house will bring the union closer to that goal. but we will not live up to these expectations if we do not have the courage to create a genuine common market, which gives european companies opportunities to grow wherever they are based. the conditions for development will not exist if we allow protectionist practices, which are also discriminatory in their essence, not only along the east-west line, although they are obviously most visible and often very painful for the citizens of the new member states. the european economy needs growth and the citizens of the eu countries want jobs. the draft directive we are discussing today, which was drawn up by the previous commission, was a proper and rational response to these needs. since services account for 70% of the income generated in the union and provide jobs for the vast majority of europeans, we should do everything we can to ensure that this sector develops without unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles. however, this is the area where the greatest obstacles to free movement exist, which is contrary not only to common sense but also to the provisions of the treaties. the draft directive was a sensation from the outset and was subject to numerous amendments, but eventually took a compromise shape during the work of the committee on the internal market and services. this is a compromise that goes really far, that really changes the text significantly, but any further change to the text will mean a change in the economic challenges facing europe. we cannot compete effectively on the global market if the union is constrained by fear of internal competition.
mr. chairman, please! the dozens of decisions taken by the european parliament sometimes include decisions that affect the future of the european union. the services directive is of this nature. it is intended to serve the fundamental principle of european freedoms. this is to ensure that there is no discrimination in the provision of services within europe on grounds of nationality, and that citizens of the old and new member states are treated on the same basis. their implementation will serve both economic growth and the spread of the european social model. the practice of economic freedom does not weaken but strengthens the social dimension of europe. the search for compromise is certainly essential in the work of parliament and in this case too, regardless of our differences of opinion, we should do so. however, there are limits to this action, beyond which the services directive may lose all meaning. i think it is wise not to market those areas where the logic of the market does not work. i think it is reasonable to confirm that the directive does not affect labour law. however, i see no reason to introduce exceptions to the directive which are unjustified, which have no clear legal content. and i think that in matters of such strategic importance, the law needs to be clear. we need a sensible, forward-looking decision, the ghosts of the polish plumber or frankenstein should disappear from european thinking in favour of trust, freedom and solidarity. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! the fear of the western european countries of the "polish plumber" syndrome is clearly visible in the successive attempts to weaken the draft directive on the liberalisation of the services market. the numerous compromise amendments, agreed mainly in the biggest political clubs, show that some of the former fifteen countries do not want to respect the treaty principle of the free movement of services within the union. as concrete examples such as the uk and ireland show, opening up labour markets to poland and the other new member states is beneficial for their national economies. in this situation, it can be concluded that such a strong resistance to the adoption of the directive in its original form is caused by irrational fears of xenophobia.
mr. chairman, please! we are debating today one of the most important pieces of legislation for europe, one that can give it a new dimension, but at the same time, one that is in line with the plan of the founders of the community. the criticisms of some opponents of the directive are only ostensibly aimed at its design, but in reality they are an attempt to disrupt the economic integration of europe, based on the four fundamental freedoms. we do not accept the hypocrisy and calls to restrict the freedom of undertakings to provide services and the access of consumers to them under the pretext of protecting national sovereignty. we must not accept proposals to take another step backwards from the current legal status and the court's case law by limiting the scope of the directive and leaving national administrations complete freedom to impose new barriers and maintain old ones. we are concerned that the discussion in some member states has focused on a polish plumber, a latvian or a portuguese construction worker, when the main problem is really discriminatory administrative barriers. in the single market, there are still divisions between the old and the new europe. many eu countries have discriminatory practices against service providers from other member states. this trend has clearly intensified with the enlargement of the union. small and medium-sized enterprises, not only in the new member states, are losing out on the opportunity to grow and create jobs because of discriminatory restrictions on cross-border exchanges of services. europe needs a good service directive, with a broad scope, with a strong article 16 and finally articles 24 and 25, which only eliminate administrative barriers and do not change the directive on the posting of workers, as everyone is trying to convince us. europe needs a service directive that will ensure that the lisbon strategy is not just a set of empty words. to accomplish this, we need clear and unambiguous scriptures. parliament's work has helped to clear up some of the confusion, but let's not create any new ones by voting on the draft. by making compromises, often far-reaching ones, we cannot lose sight of the original purpose and meaning of the directive. protectionism does not create jobs. protectionism is also a bad, short-sighted tool for protecting workers' rights. it is an expression of the political inability of national bureaucracies to meet the challenges of economic and social reality.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is founded on four freedoms: the free movement of goods, capital, labour and services. these pillars of the european community were written in 1958 because it was already clear that they were a necessary condition for real integration in europe. even after several decades, we still do not have free movement of services in europe. i see the main reason for this as the weakness of the political class. politicians were unable or unwilling to explain to citizens that freedom to provide services meant new jobs and faster economic growth. instead of explaining the meaning of the enlargement of the european union and showing the opportunities created by competition, politicians prefer to frighten voters with social dumping, the "frankenstein" directive and the "polish plumber". in this climate, the european parliament is debating today a services directive whose implementation will make life easier for consumers and businesses, significantly boost economic growth and create 600 000 new jobs in europe. unfortunately, there is a growing attack on the directive from populist and protectionist positions. repeatedly, there are unsubstantiated assessments that opening up the services market will lead to social dumping and deterioration of employment conditions. but there is still a compromise. i would remind you that the directive excludes employment and labour law issues, which goes against the concerns expressed by trade unions. public services have also been shut down. i believe this will strike a balance between the need for competitiveness and the need to protect workers' rights. i therefore call on the european parliament to adopt the directive in a form that will strengthen competitiveness, open up labour markets and make life easier for consumers and businesses.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is still looking for the development incentives that will make it fit for the challenges of the third millennium. the directive was intended to make the european union stronger globally, competitive with world economies. but someone forgot that today we are a community of 25 countries, not 15. the prevailing view in this room is that the competition for the european union is not china or the united states, but the new member states. the european union is afraid of its own face. the mobilisation of the countries of the old union against the directive leads to an intensification of the rhetoric of conflict, a clearer polarization between the old and the new union. the union is once again divided into the haves and the have nots, with the rich countries representing a short-sighted policy based on fear rather than reason. paradoxically, the rich countries, which have hitherto been the strongest supporters of integration, are now resisting the full implementation of the integration principles of the treaty, fearing social dumping by the new states and a threat to the european social model. but i believe that the new member states will be able to cope. economic growth in the euro area is weak and the economy is slowing down. resistance to the full opening-up of the services market entails the prospect of losing a key stimulus to accelerate the union's economic growth and job creation. the new member states in this emerging two-speed europe, which have hitherto been regarded as rogue states, should therefore develop a way of reacting rapidly to tactical coalitions which are increasingly being formed against their interests. the directive in its original form gave the european union of 25 countries a new chance. now, with no articles prohibiting discrimination against companies providing services abroad and no country of origin rule, it is slowly losing its meaning and transparency.
barriers to the european services market raise prices, restrict growth and block job creation. is this what europeans want - less growth and employment and higher prices? i'm sure you didn't. europeans want more jobs, first and foremost. why would politicians block it? the self-styled labor advocates want to ruin the directive, they want to knock its teeth out. you could say they're for the liberalization of the services market, or even against it. i agree with the view that the directive touches on sensitive issues. but we can't just keep our heads in the sand. do the opponents of the directive think about competitiveness, do they think about the future of service providers, do they really want a single market? they talk a lot about equality, but it's orwellian equality -- only for the "more equal". and they talk about protecting social gains, but it's not about protecting all of europe, it's about protecting rich countries. it is small and medium-sized enterprises that create the most jobs. services are the largest contributor to european gdp. let's give the corporations a chance. let's give 20 million unemployed people a chance. let's give the entrepreneurial spirit a chance. we have a chance to do something good. we shouldn't waste it. we should therefore vote against amendments which water down the directive, which will make it more difficult to implement and which will jeopardise the desired results. let us choose true freedom. let us not allow national egoism and protectionism to destroy europe.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the president of iran is telling us that he has the right, like any other country, to have a nuclear weapon. that might be true if iran were a normal country. but it's not. it's a dictatorship that has recently been directly challenging the right to exist of one of its neighbors. israel may therefore be the first target of iranian aggression and should therefore receive a security guarantee from us today. the development of events in iran today depends on the unity of world powers. it's going to be difficult to achieve, given that russia wants to profit from iran's nuclear program, that it's selling weapons to iran along with china, and that india plans to build a gas pipeline from that country. the more so the more it depends on europe and its active role in resolving the conflict. will we be able to develop a common strategy with the united states, or will we succumb to another delusion produced by the fertile persian imagination in tehran? if the un security council fails to rise to the occasion, if we fail to change iran's policy through a program of economic and financial sanctions, we should not be surprised if we see fighter raids over natanz or isfahan one day.
mr. chairman, please! there is no greater sin in politics than the sin of naivety. for one minute of that speech, you can only get into the emotions and the imagination. the sin of naivety is what we all commit, saying these wise words, agreeing with each other and watching with calm that these words have absolutely no effect. we're just saying the same things over and over. iran is always creating new facts. has iran come any closer to a nuclear weapon in recent years? it's closer. is it closer to nuclear power? it's closer. is there any closer to an effective means of transporting this weapon? yes, it's closer, and we're saying the same words, the same naive words. let us prepare for the day when nuclear weapons in iran become a reality. let us then change our defence doctrine, because this will also apply to europe, and let us remember how europe has had to pay dearly for the sin of naivety in history.
mr. chairman, please! one day bosnia and herzegovina will be in the european union. it is difficult to imagine when that will be, but it is also difficult to imagine the union still without it. similarly, among us should one day be ukraine, belarus, armenia and georgia, among others. these countries, built on christian civilization, like the whole union, are easy to integrate, which is not the case with turkey. in the meantime, of course, let us offer bosnia and herzegovina a stabilisation and association agreement, without any guarantee of accession. i would suggest that after bulgaria and romania, other countries should be admitted at the request of the citizens of the union, with close to 100% support.
mr. chairman, please! the 10 years since the dayton peace accords were signed have brought peace to bosnia and herzegovina, but have not solved the serious political and social problems. the complex institutional structure makes the political decision-making process unclear and the expenditure on the functioning of the administration at all levels is a very high burden on public finances. positive developments such as relatively high economic growth and reforms in the police, defence and tax systems should not, however, obscure the fact that without fundamental constitutional reforms it is difficult to think positively about the future of bosnia and herzegovina. in this context, the european union has a particular responsibility. the stabilisation and association agreement negotiations launched in january are a good step in the right direction, as i am convinced that the prospect of integration into european structures will strengthen the drive for the necessary reforms, both political and institutional and economic. i would like to make a strong case here that progress in the negotiations on the stabilisation and association agreement should not depend on progress in the constitutional reform process. the prospect of a better future in close relations with the european union, which the people of bosnia and herzegovina greatly hope for, cannot be allowed to be undermined by internal political or ethnic strife. i would like to thank the initiators of this debate and the authors of a very good draft resolution, which does not need to be amended, and in particular amendment no 2. i wish the austrian presidency success in solving the complex problems of the balkans, which will be beneficial both for the peoples of those countries and for europe as a whole. (laughter) (applause)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union is facing a serious challenge in belarus, where our pressure measures have so far failed to produce results. we should go down to the executive level of democracy in belarus. it's gonna take a few organizational steps. our monitoring of the human rights situation in belarus should be based on the parliament's annual report on human rights in the world and on information provided by the special representative of the commission and the council for belarus. parliament's resolution should be a tool reserved for new and ground-breaking situations. our action should be based on the instrument of the neighbourhood policy and a separate instrument for human rights, which must be adapted to work in a hostile political and legal environment. in particular, the union's involvement in the financing of independent media needs to be developed, and this should be based on reliable partners. the commission's last call for tenders raised such doubts, as stated in the last of today's interpellations to the commission.
mr. chairman, please! belarus is a special country, and hence the last dictatorship in europe. this is a poor country. poor also because it has never known freedom in its history, unlike many, but not all, of its neighbours. how can he want that freedom now, when he's never had it, doesn't know what to want. belarusians are not demanding and are very patient. if this election on march 19th is also rigged, the people will wait for the next free election. but first, let's do everything, make every effort to make the elections on march 19 this year free. it's not good for one person to rule for a long time. let belarus choose freely between the current president and alexander milinkievich.
mr president, on 19 march the presidential election will take place in belarus. we all agree that it is about time to support the activities of the democratic force in belarus. it should be our top priority to facilitate a free and democratic ballot. full transparency of every process involved in this election, including the counting of votes and equal conditions for all candidates, must be secured. the policies of lukashenko have raised far too many serious concerns. the presence of the european parliament and the council of europe during the presidential election is of the highest importance. we should insist on the belarus authorities extending an invitation to both institutions as soon as possible. the situation of citizens of belarus concerning the independence of the media and freedom of expression is gradually getting worse, which is why we strongly support the establishment of radio network broadcasting from poland, lithuania and possibly ukraine. furthermore, the actions taken by the government of belarus against the union of poles in belarus and the roma minority, as well as the decision to ban the reformed evangelical church, are examples of the lack of respect for minority rights, as well as freedom of association and belief.
member of the commission. i have to say, madam president, i do not think the honourable member is in any doubt about the attitude to renationalisation when we talk about the common european agricultural policy. there has never been any intention of renationalising - quite the contrary! and if i may use a relatively recent example, it is clear that i have fought with all the legal means at my disposal against the proposal that the british presidency launched in the negotiations on the next financial perspective for 2007-13 for voluntary modulation of up to 20%. i believe that such a proposal would be the first step towards renationalising the common european agricultural policy. this will mean that instead of competing on the same basis, we will be in a situation where agricultural policy will be about competition between the different treasuries and between the different finance ministers of the 25 member states of the european union.
member of the commission. the sugar quota is in principle fixed per country by community legislation. under the current sugar market organisation, the quotas are allocated by the member states to the sugar manufacturing undertakings and are actually not allocated directly to the beet growers. this principle will remain unchanged after the reform and poland is no exception to this rule. the restructuring fund will be set up in order to facilitate the necessary restructuring measures that should lead to lower sugar production in the less competitive regions within the european union. undertakings which renounce their sugar quota will be eligible for restructuring aid over a transitional period of four years. however, this payment will be linked to a series of conditions, including obligatory consultation with the beet growers and the submission of a restructuring plan to be agreed between the government and the industry. member states will have significant flexibility to lay down detailed rules for the implementation of the restructuring aid, as long as they comply with the general rules of future community legislation. therefore – and this is very important and i underline it at every opportunity – the restructuring money cannot be pocketed by the industry. this is very important and it is the whole idea behind this restructuring fund. besides the undertakings, beet growers and machinery contractors will also be able to benefit from this restructuring fund. an amount of at least 10% of the restructuring fund, amounting to eur 730 per tonne, should be reserved for the farmers, to compensate in particular for investment in the specialised machinery needed to produce sugar beet. it is quite clear, with this wording of ‘at least 10%’, that member states can decide that a higher percentage should be allocated to the sugar beet producers, the farmers. it should also be emphasised that, independently of the restructuring fund that we have just talked about, sugar beet growers will receive direct aid as compensation for their loss of revenue due to the reduction in prices. they will receive this direct aid even if they stop producing sugar beet. this is very important. for the new member states specifically, there will clearly be no phasing-in of the direct payment for the sugar beet compensation. the sugar beet producers in the new member states will receive exactly the same amount per hectare in compensation as the eu-15, which means that there is no phasing-in as there is for cereals. the compensation will be 100% right from when the new sugar reform is first implemented.
madam president! i'd like to ask you one more question. does the commission have instruments at its disposal to limit the possibility of transferring sugar production quotas between countries, e.g. from poland to other countries? are there such instruments, and will they be effective?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report by mr graefe zu baringdorf, which we are discussing today, clearly and succinctly presents a number of shortcomings and weaknesses in the management of risks and crises in european agriculture. for many years, the cap has protected european agriculture and farmers. the recent reform, while more market-oriented, forces farmers to take responsibility for managing their risks. subsidized european agriculture has eliminated the mechanisms of protection and risk protection. few farmers today anticipate crises, and unfortunately, few can afford insurance in a world of free competition and low profits. non-farm businesses and trade and insurance companies have created a whole package of insurance, even for such sophisticated situations as exchange rate differentials and insurance against loss of income for political reasons when investing abroad. both the commission's communication and the excellent report by the rapporteur show that there is a huge backlog in this area in the european union. the farmer-entrepreneur running a farm after the reform in a free market, with huge competition, risks all his wealth and earnings, without even having a substitute in terms of insurance for what an investor or trader has. if it is a large or wholesale farm, it is able to cover the costs of insurance and risk, but millions of european small, small or even family farms cannot afford to pay for any insurance, even for their own home, let alone production. in the event of a disaster, he must rely on the help of neighbors or the support of the state. which european farmer is insured against loss of income from the closure of the russian border, the sugar reform and the need to close down plantations or the dumping of chinese fruit and vegetables? who provides comprehensive insurance for the investor-farmer risk associated with the financing of investments, the risk of changes in product prices, the risk of changes in fertiliser, feed, fuel prices, the risk of global climate change, soil degradation, drought, hurricanes, floods and storms? who insures supply and demand imbalances, disease epidemics and genetically modified food? agriculture as a sector of the economy needs special legal and organisational regulations on insurance. agriculture is too fragmented and weak a sector to develop insurance on its own. nor are they able to do it alone and take on even the richest countries in the european union. a common, universal insurance system must therefore be established, covering all member states and all farmers in the field of insurance reinsurance. the 1% of modulation proposed by the commission is not even able to cover reinsurance, let alone create a system of prevention and insurance. the spanish insurance system is the best in europe today. i therefore call on the commission to make this system a reality as soon as possible and to adopt it as a model for the european union, and then to discuss with the major insurance companies and national governments a target system that would be universal and compulsory, profitable and economical, fair and subsidiary. finally, while thanking the rapporteur for his excellent report, i should also like to thank him for his correct remark on the exclusion of the new member states from the 1% modulation, with a proposal to the commission to propose other funding in these countries.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the rapporteur on raising this important subject of risk and crisis management in the agricultural sector, also taking into account the specificities of the new member states. i also welcome the concern of the european commission for farmers who are facing crises caused by market liberalisation, agricultural products, export restrictions, animal diseases, not to mention natural disasters. i would also like to point out to the commissioner that polish farmers are particularly interested in fuel subsidies and biofuel production. biofuel production will increase farmers' incomes and security, and reduce daily anxiety and worry caused by, for example, the volatile price of pork.
mr. chairman, please! i am very impressed with the rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf, for taking on the task of managing risks and crises in the agricultural sector. the sheer number of issues to be addressed, from limiting the impact of natural disasters (droughts, floods, fires and hailstorms) through disease and epidemics to the risk of loss of profit from lack of demand for agricultural products or price increases, such as fuel, makes this a huge task. insurance of this risk, reinsurance, subsidies to the means of production are just one of the ways to reduce the risk of doing business called agricultural production. in order to be able to really manage - and in fact reduce the risks of doing this production, we have to act on the risks, and that means a different approach to the concentration of production, dispersion, restoration of the natural environment, introduction of new techniques and technologies, such as biotechnology. taken together, the various measures - some of which have already been taken - will eliminate the adverse effects and reduce the risks of production.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the forest structure in the 15 countries of the so-called old union has very good indicators of forest cover reaching 35% of the area, where the vast majority of forests are privately owned and belong to 15 million owners. but the question is, how can forest management be done on a scale that allows for the division of forest land between private owners? i'm not against private ownership of the forests. in my country poland , most of the forests are state-owned, i.e. 82%, of which 2% are national parks. the forest structure itself is much richer and older than that of the eu countries. the polish forestry model is efficient and effective. the state forest is a self-financing and profit-making institution. however, the european union's support for forests in central europe requires a large amount of money for training for people who plant forests on their own land, and for pensions. support is needed for non-commercial areas, national parks, reserves. the forest infrastructure needs to be modernised. i call on the commission and the european parliament to learn from the way forestry is managed in poland. western europe can also learn from good experiences. not everything private is always the best. private forests also need support. the wealth of good forests in poland benefits society across the union.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my remarks also concern the problem of polish forests, which my predecessor mentioned. forests are a great asset to my country, but unlike most countries in the european union, most of these forests, over 80% of the land, are state forests. this ownership status is the result of long historical processes and there is no reason for rapid changes in the forest ownership structure in poland at the moment. the majority of public opinion in poland is in favour of forests remaining state property. the problem is that the eu has discriminated against state forests by refusing to support them. it is good that one of the amendments to mr kindermann's report has been adopted, which gives hope that this situation will change and that forests will be covered by eu aid, irrespective of their ownership structure. we in poland need this very much and we hope that the european commission will understand this situation.
mr. chairman, please! in thanking mr kindermann for his report, i would like to stress that the union's forestry strategy should have one objective: to systematically increase the area of forests, especially the large ones. only forests of more than 500 hectares allow the restoration of biodiversity of flora and fauna. the most effective forestry policy can be pursued in the newly admitted countries, and in particular in poland. this is due to the fact that poland has a very efficient model of ownership, management and use of forests. as a proof of this, poland has increased its forest cover by almost 50% in the last 50 years, and it is the only country in the union with virgin forests. in the polish forests, there is a big hunt for deer, wild boar, elk; everyone has access to them, and hunters are their co-hosts. the most unwise strategy is to allocate increased forestry expenditure to newly admitted countries. i consider it desirable to support and promote the polish forestry model. the union should treat state forests at least on an equal footing with private forests. consequently, state-owned forestry undertakings should be entitled to receive financial support in the same way as private undertakings. any discrimination against state-owned forestry companies is stupid and unwise from an economic and, above all, an ecological point of view.
mr. chairman, please! forests in the european union are very diverse. the conditions for maintaining their multi-functionality also vary. a well-thought-out, sustainable forest management is therefore needed, which maximises the protective and social functions of forests, which cannot be overridden by production functions. the forest owners play a very important role in forest management. studies and reports show that state forests are the best forest management. unfortunately, unlike private forests, they cannot count on significant eu support. it is therefore necessary to reconsider whether the current forestry strategy is correct and whether the eu should extend its wide-ranging aid to state forests. because we have to remember that the value to humanity is the forest, not the owner of the forest.
mr. chairman, please! as i speak today in the debate on the forest strategy for the european union, i would like to draw your attention to two facts which i believe are important. in poland, over 80% of forests are owned by the state treasury, and forest management is carried out on its behalf by the state forests enterprise. this forestry system, which has been in place for decades, has been recognized by the world bank and the european union as a model forestry system. secondly, the european union has allocated some eur 5 billion of rural development funds to forestry activities between 2000 and 2006 alone. unfortunately, despite the efforts of many meps, these funds cannot be used by the national forestry sector. i therefore appeal to the commissioner to make sure that this major shortfall in the funding of forestry policy is addressed over the next seven years, i.e. 2007-2013.
mr. chairman, please! the implementation of a unified forest strategy in our countries will, as usual, involve the financing of these activities. in many countries, this won't be a problem, because most forests are either public or private. but what do we do in countries like mine, where the vast majority of forests are state-owned and managed by the state? the problem is that the number of polish mps who spoke today is a testament to that. unfortunately, i have a different opinion than my colleagues and i believe that until the level of state and private property is equal, only private property should be financed. already, the number of requests for funding for forestry exceeds the funding limits received. some 6,000 hectares of new plantings were created in the first year of the programme. and this is an opportunity to change the ownership structure, to reduce the cost of timber and to implement a common forestry policy, in line with the lisbon strategy.
mr. chairman, please! it is good that this important problem of forestry is being discussed in the european parliament and is also being addressed by various eu and international institutions. the european commission has presented us with a communication on the implementation of the forest strategy so far. it also identifies the issues that should be addressed in the union's action plan for sustainable forest management. however, this is a very general, keyword-based view and even points in the direction of seeking a real balance between the economic, environmental and social functions of forests in a sustainable forest management model. the natura 2000 ecological network is being implemented in the european union. however, the full success of this project will depend on the well-functioning financing mechanism of the network. as the main objective of natura 2000, the rules for funding biodiversity should be uniform for all forms of property in the natura 2000 network, both private and public. the financing of forest-related programmes should be implemented from the appropriations allocated to this purpose in the union budget and not within rural areas. the european taxpayer is more likely to spend money on forestry or the environment than on the common agricultural policy. forests cover one third of europe's land area and provide a range of environmental, social and economic benefits to society. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the forestry sector on the environment and on the environment in general. our main goal should be to make forests and communities work together. the forestry sector can make a significant contribution to the lisbon and göteborg objectives.forests have an impact on landscape and cultural values and provide facilities for other activities such as hunting, tourism and are a source of raw materials for renewable energy. however, the preservation of the natural functions of forests, which are essential for the safety and balance of the ecosystem, requires not only knowledge but also money, and this is something to bear in mind.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i congratulate mrs. mcguinness on a brilliant report on a very important case. the problems of rural areas and agriculture have been often neglected in the union in recent times. we have heard many times, including in this house, that almost half the eu budget is spent on aid to the countryside and farmers, who represent only 6% of the population. the strategic guidelines offer hope that rural and agricultural problems will be better addressed in the future. rural development is not just a matter for farmers, it is a matter for society as a whole. without rural development and support for agriculture, there is no food security, no sustainable development, no effective environmental protection. i hope that this document discussed today will serve the future of rural and agricultural europe well, especially in the new member states which are most in need of support for their rural areas.
mr. chairman, please! i represent poland in the european parliament, where we have six of the ten poorest regions in the union, including five on the so-called eastern wall. these areas are characterised by poor infrastructure, fragmented agricultural structures and high unemployment, partly covered by family farms. the additional amount of over eur 800 million for the 'eastern wall' in the 2007-2013 budget does not address the so-called 'civilization gap' in the region. we need help at least as much as the union does for the peripheral and sparsely populated regions of the old member states. in addition to financial aid, the eastern wall, including the poorest lublin region, needs agricultural policy stabilisation and protection for the agricultural producers living there. it's high time we ensure its development.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the importance of rural development in the new member states. in poland, the countryside became a sort of shock absorber for the economic transformation that took place in the 1990s. it was to the countryside that a large proportion of the workers from the companies that were being liquidated en masse at that time went. rural areas in poland therefore require a great deal of financial support and the use of many instruments that will allow the creation of jobs in this environment. it is good that in the financial perspective for 2007-2013 more than eur 80 billion is to be allocated to this purpose, of which at least a dozen billion for poland, but this policy must also be accompanied by rational measures within the framework of the common agricultural policy, stabilising the income of the traditional agricultural economy, because only stable farm income will allow them to make rational use of support from rural development funds.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to refer to the resolution on freedom of speech. i couldn't support it because those who first offended others' feelings acted arrogantly, and when they were threatened by the boycott of their goods and began to apologize, they acted cowardly. i find neither arrogance nor cowardice to be condemned in this declaration, and that is why i could not support this resolution. (laughter)
in writing. the crisis of the muhammad cartoons and the disproportionate reactions of muslim fanatics has revealed not only the depth of the cultural differences between western civilization and the islamic world, with its emphasis on collective responsibility and lack of respect for religious freedom, but also the serious crisis of liberal democracy. it cannot impose the rule of law on muslim communities in europe or respect for religious freedom in islamic countries, but by making freedom of speech absolute, it can irritate muslim religious feelings. on the other hand, the use of freedom without responsibility inevitably leads to conflict. respect for national and religious feelings is the foundation of respect for people who share them, whether we agree with those feelings or not. so we must not offend those feelings by making blasphemous representations of the cross, of muhammad, or of the victims of the holocaust. it is not, as cohn-bendit claims, that religion is 'de-religionized' in the public sphere. religion will always be something other than a political debate, unless it stops being a religion and becomes an ideology. a caricature of congressman cohn-bendit is not the same as a caricature of muhammad. you just can't impose a lack of religious sensitivity on other members of the public, and attempts to do so end up like publishing cartoons of muhammad. that is why i voted against paragraph 5 of the resolution and, since it has been adopted, i abstain on the whole resolution.
mr. chairman, please! the report in question - to put it mildly, the diplomatic language we love so much in the european parliament - is in fact a crushing criticism of the international monetary fund. today the european parliament has the chance to say what critics of the fund have been saying for years. the report rightly points out that (i quote) 'the stabilisation policies expressed by the fund do not always achieve the intended objectives and that too abrupt economic stabilisation can cause harmful social changes'. we also agree that (i quote) 'the monitoring of adjustment programmes should be subject to democratic and transparent control'. the fund sometimes acts like it's in a jungle, except it's creating a jungle, a jungle of rules. every year, the number of criteria that poor countries need to meet to receive aid increases. for example, the absurdity of sub-saharan africa, where on average 114 criteria must be met to qualify for aid, is that the aid is not available to all. the rapporteur rightly emphasises the need to mobilise new financial instruments. in order to reduce the debt of the poorest countries, the fund has too many priorities. the imf has to go back to the source. its main objective was and should be to stabilise the fluctuations in world exchange rates. that's what my predecessor was talking about. mr hamon is right in his report to say that the increase in the fund's tasks has not entailed any significant reform of management. we are therefore entitled to demand that the fund's legitimacy be increased. the rapporteur rightly notes that (i quote) 'fundus has often failed to prevent the spread and re-emergence of conflicts'. we agree 100% with the complaints against the fund that its policy has not taken into account the fact that inflation is not the only economic problem in developing countries and that the fund should be oriented around the objective of macroeconomic stability and sustainable development. finally, we welcome the report's finding that macroeconomic stability is not incompatible with the fair distribution of growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: there is no doubt that all the cultural monuments around the world are the common heritage of all and should not fall victim to any political or, even less so, military events. let me give you a personal reflection. when i was in armenia a few years ago and i was looking at those monuments, those churches that are still preserved from the early middle ages, and i was thinking back to my earlier visit to the other end of the christian world - to spain, thousands of kilometers to the west - it was the similarity of the monuments of these two regions that struck me. these were all monuments of early medieval european culture. although we are responsible for all the world's monuments, we must be particularly concerned in europe with those monuments which bear witness to the cultural past and the unity of europe from the eastern edge of armenia to the western edge of spain. i think what is happening today and what we are witnessing is particularly moving, because it is the monuments that are being destroyed, which are the heritage not only of europe but of the world. the responsibility of azerbaijan is particularly striking because, as mr tannock said a moment ago, why is azerbaijan not allowing a visit to be made to assess the damage on the spot? fortunately, we know and have film evidence of the losses that result from the barbaric decisions of those in power. we must adopt these resolutions and then we must monitor what happens next, because it cannot be limited to even the most noble words. there must be action and we expect that from azerbaijan.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's debate in defense of human rights, democracy is about defending the armenian cultural heritage that is threatened with total destruction. armenia, a country of four million people, has been the world's first christian country since 301, as evidenced not only by historical records but also by thousands of crosses carved on stone tablets called khachkars, which have been destroyed, as well as other monuments of armenian culture, in azerbaijan, georgia and turkey. chachkaras, or cross-stones, measuring from three to ten feet [0.5 to 3.5 m] high, were made of basalt and placed on a perpendicular base, with the cross facing west. the armenians saw the chakkar as a protective force against natural disasters. they were used to commemorate important events, as compositional elements in sacred buildings, and as tombstones, always at the feet of the deceased. recently, a medieval cemetery in zulfa, a city in the area controlled by azerbaijan, was destroyed. the scandalous process of vandalism and destruction of armenian cultural monuments began in 1998, when as many as 800 such stone crosses were vandalized. although the demolition was halted for a time after unesco protested, it resumed in 2002. most likely, the criminal destruction of armenian national heritage is being carried out with the permission of the azerbaijani authorities, who sent specially trained military units to destroy armenian crossboards. armenians have been persecuted for centuries by wars, aggression, occupation, they are a nation deeply experienced both as a nation and as christians. the azeri people have also experienced much destruction and misery, but it must be stressed that no conflict justifies the destruction of cultural heritage, which is the work of all mankind. culture is an expression of human communication, co-thinking and co-operation, an affirmation of humanity and a fundamental good of communities. we therefore demand respect for the worldwide work of art, regardless of religion or origin.
mr. chairman, please! i remember my experience in azerbaijan, in baku, in a big building in the city center, where there was a hotel for nomadic azerbaijanis who had fled from nagorno karabakh. it was a shocking sight. these people have lived there for many years and, of course, i think of them as well, not just the monuments that we rightly speak of today. like the libyan mp, i feel that of course the monuments must be protected in every part of the world, regardless of the latitude. but it also seems to me that for the government of azerbaijan this issue is an attempt to escape, an attempt to keep quiet about the lack of democracy, not to talk about the undemocratic recent elections, about the ban on freedom of demonstration and about the ban on freedom of speech in this country. it's worth fighting for the monuments. it's right that we do this, but it's also worth promoting democracy in azerbaijan.
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i would like to thank the honourable members for all their speeches. the commission has been informed about the alleged destruction of artefacts in the julfa cemetery, in the azerbaijani autonomous republic of nakhichevan. both armenia and azerbaijan delivered a statement at the 586th meeting of the osce permanent council of 22 december 2005 and the issue was also discussed in the council of europe on 1 february 2006. the protection of world cultural heritage sites in third countries is not within the commission’s competences. we understand, however, that armenia appealed to unesco, asking for a mission to be sent to nakhichevan as rapidly as possible. the commission is well aware of the fact that episodes like the destruction in the julfa cemetery, if confirmed by independent sources, have a direct link with and are symptomatic of the long-standing conflict over nagorno-karabakh, which has caused mistrust and destruction and claimed victims on both the armenian and the azerbaijani sides since the early 1990s. the commission will continue to use all the means at its disposal to persuade the parties to find a quick settlement to the conflict and, once a peace deal is hopefully reached, assist in the reconstruction and the rehabilitation of the region. the conflict over nagorno-karabakh particularly unacceptable today in that both armenia and azerbaijan are part of the european neighbourhood policy, which aims, as a priority, to build confidence in the south caucasus region, encouraging regional cooperation in as many sectors as possible and contributing to peace, stability and prosperity at the borders of an enlarged european union. it is an ambitious objective that we will try to achieve, including through the implementation of the action plans that the commission is currently discussing with armenia, azerbaijan and georgia. in these documents we ask the three south caucasus countries to undertake a number of steps in order to come closer to europe. the documents cover a very wide range of subjects, including cooperation on education and culture and the protection of cultural heritage. implementation of the enp action plans will be monitored closely by the commission and the benefits which flow from these will of course be conditional on their achievements.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: as usual, we're doing a human rights briefing on thursday. when we talked about azerbaijan, we talked about human rights in a very special sphere - the sphere of culture. culture is an essential element of human rights. a much more dramatic situation is when we discuss the situation in sri lanka. we can hardly wait to see peace come to that place. on the one hand, we could recall the old saying that "the folly of rulers is paid for by the people" and simply say that it is the people who are in the middle of the conflict who are to blame, not the people who want peace. but on the other hand, we have this situation that is not uncommon in the world, that there are indigenous people and there are foreigners. this conflict between the original sinhalese and the tamil immigrants has much deeper historical roots and unfortunately, whatever we might imagine today that we can forget about history and talk only about the future is simply not possible. we have to understand the humiliation of the indigenous people who think they have better rights than those who came later, uninvited, not by their own decision, but by a decision of completely outside as happened in sri lanka. so let us make sure that peace is made as soon as possible, so that the people of sri lanka stop paying for the madness of the rulers. but we also have to consider that historical rights are just as much rights to rule as the property rights of someone who has been dispossessed of that property. i hope that the european union will do everything in its power to bring peace to sri lanka.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the political, economic and social situation in sri lanka is becoming, as everyone in this room unanimously notes, increasingly unstable. the local community, including mainly women and children, are victims of uncontrolled and brutal violence. murder and the involvement of military forces are part of sri lanka's daily reality. the 2002 ceasefire agreement is now seriously threatened by the outbreak of a new conflict. sri lanka needs clear international support to ensure a stable ceasefire, which is absolutely essential for any progress in the region. we, the european parliament, should support this country in all its efforts to achieve stability, peace and democracy. the priority should be to tackle any manifestations of racial or ethnic discrimination that affect the local community on a daily basis and make it difficult, especially for those affected by the tsunami, to access the compensation they are entitled to. it is not enough to send money and feel the satisfaction of having done a good deed, but it is also necessary to ensure that it is distributed fairly - only then will the financial assistance of the european union bring concrete results, otherwise it may become the cause of additional conflicts.
mr. chairman, please! i agree with the resolution that global terrorism, and especially terrorism against democratic societies, is a threat, but terrorism cannot be fought with terrorism. it's not gonna be approved, and we have the right to talk about it. we have the right, because europe is the cradle of humanitarian law, that our continent has already had the first conventions at the beginning of the 20th century to protect the rights of prisoners, to protect civilians, to protect victims of war. after world war ii, we developed these humanitarian principles. in europe we have the european system of human rights, the strasbourg system, and finally, we in the european union have a charter of fundamental rights which will be and is already part of the european constitution, and all these documents say clearly and unambiguously: the dignity of the human person must be respected, he must not be humiliated, he must not be abused or intimidated, no one may be detained without a trial, everyone has the right to a defence. i ask, is this something that has been forgotten in guantanamo? doesn't he want to remember that? both the united nations report and our own amnesty international report make this clear. we cannot agree to that and that is why i fully support the thesis expressed in the resolution that the fight against terrorism cannot be conducted in violation of human rights.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to say something about the elections in both belarus and ukraine. as far as belarus is concerned, the situation is quite clear, because it is very difficult. i don't think this election will be democratic, this election will not be free. we already know that the repression of both opposition leaders and candidates is far more severe than we expected. but we must not forget that there are other elections, other election campaigns in ukraine. ukraine has already confirmed its pro-european orientation. i was present in lviv on behalf of the parliamentary club of the party of european socialists, supporting the election campaign of the party of ukrainian socialists, and i must say that what i saw was encouraging. i saw ukraine, i saw the pro-european campaign slogans. but i want to draw your attention to one very important and disturbing detail. it has come to my attention that some voter lists, voter rolls, can be prepared in a very unreliable way. that is why what our delegates in the european parliament do not only in belarus but also in ukraine can be of great importance.
mr. chairman, please! in recent days, we have seen a wave of arrests of opposition activists in belarus. the european union cannot stand by and watch the basic principles on which any civilized society is based be violated. i call on the european commission to immediately create a blacklist of the belarusian nomenclature. the list should include as many people as possible. all persons in the immediate entourage of the dictator lukashenka should be banned from entering the territory of the european union. this should apply to those responsible for force decisions, for directing the work of internal services, and to the media propaganda circles. the imposition of visa sanctions on these individuals will effectively weaken the position of the belarusian government without harming the whole society and will send a clear signal to the opposition that their situation is not indifferent to their western neighbors. the people behind the recent arrests should be punished. the announcement of the intention to create such a blacklist could save many lives and prevent repression. such prevention will prove that europeans speak with one voice and are united in defending fundamental human rights.
mr. chairman, please! the art of epistolography will flourish. instead of getting down to work, doing the daily, hard work of raising the authority of the european union, the authority that is falling, the commissioners of the european commission are playing with writing letters of instruction to individual member states. for example, one of the most controversial figures in the european commission, the dutch commissioner neelie kroes, was accused of conflicts of interest and lobbying in a hearing in our parliament. it recently wrote to the polish government about the merger of two polish banks. i thought the commissioner would share with the polish government her country's experience of losing the referendum on the constitution. the commissioner, however, considered it appropriate to admonish the polish government, even though her own bank (ing) was one of the first to buy one of the larger polish banks, bank śląski, for a profit. in this embarrassing letter from the commissioner, there is a lot of the paternalism that is characteristic of the countries of the old union towards the new member states. the commissioner could have done a better job of advising the dutch government on how to avoid racial and ethnic tensions, which have unfortunately become more frequent in her country.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to comment on two cases concerning the serbian district of kosovo. the first thing is that we see that there is likely to be a real humanitarian disaster in the coming months, a humanitarian disaster in the enclaves inhabited by serbian refugees. in these districts, electricity is available for only one hour a day. it's also true that to get drugs in, you have to pay a bribe to a terrorist gang. the thing is, these enclaves are completely unsecured. in kosovo too, terrorist groups are blowing up orthodox churches, which are not only places of worship but also places of heritage of our common europe. the crime of this, the bombing of an orthodox church, i think it's comparable only to how al-qaeda blew up buddha statues in afghanistan. mr. chairman, please! i think that europe has turned its back on kosovo today, on the serbs, unfortunately, on those people who are very close to democracy and human rights.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. today's debate on human trafficking and forced prostitution in the context of global sporting events highlights both the tragedy of thousands of exploited women being sold as sex slaves and the absurdity of a liberal vision of freedom to do whatever one wants, which is arbitrary and consequently allows for killing, the spread of disease, drug addiction, prostitution, pornography and other pathologies. true freedom is meaningful when it serves love and truth, which treats not only violence, manipulation and deception as destructive and unacceptable, but also prostitution as human exploitation. the "red card" for forced prostitution, which attempts to combat this modern form of slavery, seems to be fragmentary and ineffective in the context of liberal propaganda. there will be legal constraints.
madam president! in 1999, i was in belgium when a polish woman who had been raped by an albanian was ordered to leave the country after filing a complaint with the gendarmerie. we don't know what happened to the rapist. maybe nothing, because he was a poor asylum seeker, but the rape victim received no compensation from anyone, nor did she receive psychological help, although she was offered it. she didn't get that help because she was given three days to leave the territory. so it's important to give special status to victims of violence, rape, forced prostitution, temporary residency and some financial assistance.
i have received one draft resolution. lodged in accordance with rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m. the written declaration (art. 142)
the next item is the report by alain hutchinson, drawn up on behalf of the committee on regional development, on relocation in the context of regional development (2004/2254 (ini)) (a6-0013/2006).
mr. chairman, please! i want to draw your attention to two important issues in this debate. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiaries was granted in breach of the altmark judgment. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. indeed, research shows that in the long run jobs are created as a result of relocation. a survey of 600 german companies by the consultancy firm mckenzie found that the relocation of jobs to eastern europe is conducive to job creation in germany. 40% of these companies, by creating one job abroad, created 3 new jobs at home. the same applies to british and french companies investing abroad. in this situation, it seems that creating administrative barriers or financial sanctions for companies that want to relocate or for local authorities that encourage investors with public aid are ideas that go against the flow of objective economic processes. that is why i shall vote against mr hutchinson's report.
mr. chairman, please! poland supports the possibility of relocating companies within the european union. we believe that punishing companies that have relocated their activities with a seven-year period of being excluded from receiving eu aid is too restrictive and inexplicable. it is difficult to understand why companies in the european union will not be able to respond to market needs, even though this is in the interests of both consumers and producers. we oppose the creation of special lists of companies that have relocated, as this is against the fundamental principles of the european union. we call on all members of the european parliament to reject these unfair, free market-contrary provisions, which are harmful, especially for the new member states.
mr. chairman, please! the text of the resolution to be voted on has already been the subject of a difficult process of compromise and agreement. nevertheless, it is worth noting a few important elements in the debate. firstly, the text rightly draws attention to the dangers of misusing european funds when they are collected in order to subsequently carry out production transfers, even though the funds are linked to the area of structural intervention in a particular region and are, as it were, linked to that region. secondly, the text of the resolution is an interventionist text and is a set of proposals either preventive or repressive. thirdly, the text recognises relocation as a real threat, even though it only uses wording about potential negative consequences. the resolution merely indicates in the introduction that there are various possible reasons for relocation, related to efficiency and profitability, but it focuses only on the negative mechanisms. the text makes little distinction between internal and external relocation and thus calls too little for the creation of positive mechanisms to encourage investors to remain in the european union. nor does the text distinguish between different types of enterprises, smaller and larger, as is the case with state aid. in future, such texts should be accompanied by detailed economic analyses, paying attention to the economic conditions and the duration of the production cycle.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the situation we have been facing since january is paradoxical. the so-called 'old 15' countries are obliged to ensure that long-term residents are treated on an equal footing with their own nationals in terms of access to employment. many of these countries, however, have taken advantage of the possibilities provided for in the accession treaty and have maintained their prohibition on the free movement of workers for the citizens of the new ten. that situation is contrary to the provisions of the treaty of accession, which confer a right of priority in access to the labour market on nationals of member states over nationals of third countries. this contradiction could have been resolved by abolishing the transitional periods for the employment of nationals of the new eu member states on the labour markets of the old union. unfortunately, only three member states, ireland, sweden and the united kingdom, have opened their labour markets since 1 may 2004. two others, spain and portugal, have already declared that they will do so as of 1 may this year. unfortunately, in most other countries, as in germany, for example, as mrs schroedter has mentioned, the fear prevails of the alleged influx of cheap labour and the loss of jobs. the fear is completely unfounded. european commission data show that in most countries the number of new eu nationals employed was fairly stable before and after enlargement. apart from austria, no one in the old member states employed more than 1% of the working population from the 10 new member states. in no eu country has the influx of workers from the new member states caused local workers to be pushed out of their jobs by the newcomers. the latter were in fact in completely new or previously unfilled positions. madam president! we must realise that the european economy will not be as competitive as the us economy unless there is greater labour mobility on our continent. despite unemployment in the european union being over 8%, some regions are lacking in workers. however, not all europeans are free to move about freely in search of work. unfortunately, it is very likely that most of the eu labour market will remain closed to citizens from the new member states for another 5 years. action by the european commission is therefore necessary to eliminate the contradictions in community legislation and to increase the freedom of movement of workers.
mr. chairman, please! i remember speaking in this house almost two years ago, a few days after the historic enlargement of the european union, calling on the governments of the so-called 'old' european union to be more courageous and to abandon transitional periods and open their labour markets to the citizens of the new member states. unfortunately, only three governments at the time, those of the uk, ireland and sweden, dared to open their labour markets, while the other 12 governments succumbed to fears and perhaps to pressure from their own public opinion and citizens and closed their doors to the influx of workers from the new member states, mainly from central and eastern europe. what has happened in the two years since? well, it turns out that the winners of that decision are the three countries that had the courage to open their labor markets. the european commission's communication from last month, if i remember correctly, from february, very clearly shows that it is precisely in those countries which have decided to open up their labour markets that not only has unemployment not increased, not only have social problems not increased, but on the contrary, the economy has gained additional momentum and revenues, for example from taxes, have increased. these are the benefits of putting into practice one of the fundamental, if not the fundamental, treaty freedoms that underpinned the european union, which we should want to put into practice with the 25 current members of the european union. on the eve of the first stage of the transition period, i am pleased that several new governments are again considering opening up their labour markets, but it must be stressed that, given the current situation, they are still a minority among the old 15. this is a serious problem and from this point of view, as we all speak out here, in the debate on the resolution that parliament is going to vote on in the near future, we should make a clear appeal to the governments of the union not to consider opening up labour markets but to open them up to the free movement of workers.
mr. chairman, please! the truth is sometimes brutal, because the old member states have been willing to open up markets where they had a competitive advantage in terms of capital flows, but where the new eu countries have a competitive advantage, markets are still closed. the services market is one example, and the labour market is another. as of 23 january, with the final implementation of the directive on residents, the situation of non-eu citizens may even be better on the labour market than that of citizens of the last accession countries. your explanations, commissioner, are interesting but not entirely convincing. i think parliament should hear more about this. this is in clear contradiction with the provisions of the accession treaties. and it's worth pointing out for the hundredth time in this room that all the countries that have opened up their labor markets have not seen any increase in unemployment or other social problems such as welfare fraud. on the contrary, cheaper labour from the new member states was vital to the economy. after two years, we can say with confidence that these restrictions have no economic justification. we are in the midst of a year of mobility of workers, as planned by the commission. it is worth noting that low labour mobility is also linked to the closure of labour markets in most eu countries. if member states insist on economically unjustified closure of the labour market, 2006 may not be the year of european mobility but the year of european hypocrisy.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i want to express my appreciation for two documents. the first is the rapporteur's report and the second is the commission's communication. i will briefly touch on some of the aspects. broadly speaking, information technology services, and in particular the internet, must be seen as affecting the human consciousness and subconscious. it is therefore necessary to apply technological, distribution and legal safeguards so that they are not used to transmit harmful, demoralizing, criminal, hateful, etc. content. it is also necessary to ensure that financial or administrative services are effectively protected against unauthorised access. particular care should be taken with regard to content for children and young people. the promotion of broadband it networks should be considered appropriate. the use of home electricity networks for data transmission should be considered to be of widespread use. information and education of the public on this subject also plays a huge role. in formulating our tasks in this area, let us be aware that this is not just a problem for the union but for the whole world. so let us do everything we can to make universal access to the internet a reality and to serve our society in the best possible way.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the global economy, increased competitiveness and social change are forcing businesses to adapt to new conditions and challenges. for our part, we must make every effort to ensure that these changes are geared to improving competitiveness while minimising social costs. in seeking new legal solutions at european level, we should not only seek to improve financial performance and profitability, but above all the good of the citizens - the people who elected us to represent their interests and look after their well-being. the resources we have should be directed primarily to the most vulnerable regions, the vast majority of which are in the newly admitted countries. finally, with reference to yesterday's debate on relocation in the context of regional development, i would like to point out that many people, including members, have forgotten too quickly the hopes and commitments made to the new member states, the commitments made during the pre-accession campaign. we must remember that these regions have the most difficult situation, the highest unemployment.
mr. chairman, please! there have been arguments and words here in this room that the modern economy is becoming more global and competitive. this is a fact and as such requires modern management, an essential element of which is the ability to react flexibly to changing market conditions and, in particular, to new competitive challenges. in such circumstances, companies cannot be managed effectively without continuous cost analysis and readiness for necessary restructuring. the consequences of not carrying out restructuring in a timely manner are always painful, both for entrepreneurs and for employees, and we should bear this in mind. this is what we must bear in mind when we debate the report on the restructuring of employment proposed by mr cottigny. i think that the work of the committee on social affairs and employment has certainly improved the quality of this document, but i must say that in my opinion it is still controversial in its wording, because it treats entrepreneurs who are planning or carrying out the restructuring of their companies with excessive suspicion. i am particularly concerned about the mep from the new eu country proposals to penalise companies that move all or part of their activities to those regions of the union where production costs are lower. such decisions by businessmen are not a sign of 'immoral and predatory behaviour' - that is a quote from the document we are discussing - but on the contrary, in my view, a sign of sound management, a sign of responsibility for the fate of the company and, consequently, of working towards the development of the eu economy and the raising of its competitiveness, which is one of the fundamental objectives of the lisbon strategy, which is important for all of us. nor is the introduction of central planning elements into the european economy the appropriate response to the social consequences of restructuring. it's not just in post-communist countries that this has worked. one appropriate response is to improve skills and to promote continuing training and mobility of workers. i would like to make a further appeal here, namely to call for the abolition of transitional periods in access to labour markets as soon as possible.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european commission, in its fight for gender equality, is to allocate €50 million to the european institute for gender equality, which is being set up to promote equal pay for equal work, to eliminate gender stereotypes and to promote gender equality outside the european union. however, i would like to point out that of the 450 million inhabitants of the european union, almost 70 million live in poverty, or more than 15%, which is a clear indication of inequality and a violation of fundamental human rights and dignity. the peace process should be about reaching out to the poor, ending unemployment, improving health care, rather than creating antagonisms between men and women that ultimately only burden women. the compensation of any wage differentials can be provided by a single legislative act which does not require such large amounts of money. instead of redressing the natural disparities in the various economic and professional sectors and promoting equality outside the union, equality within the union should be ensured and these resources should be used to improve living conditions and help, for example, children living in poverty. the fight against gender stereotypes should be replaced by the promotion of the family, which is currently being degraded to cultural superstition.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. equality between women and men - this formula is repeated all over the union. but common sense would suggest that the matter is not that simple. men and women are men and women because they're different. they are equal in dignity, but they are different. and you can see that in sports, which we talked about a little while ago. i have recently tried to find out how the european commission understands this formula. especially since this formula is very often accompanied by an addendum in all areas. like all of them, like all of them. so i asked them if this equality was a law of nature or a law of the constitution, and what could be done to make men have children. commissioner špidla replied to me, despite the fact that the principle of gender equality is limited to employment relations and access to goods and services. why, then, does article 23 of chapter iii of the charter of fundamental rights speak clearly on all areas? so if the european commission cannot solve a problem that is rooted in european law, i doubt that the institute that we are designing can.
mr. chairman, please! the idiotic feminist slogan of gender equality is hurting women. it's a catchphrase that emphasizes masculine qualities and suggests that women have them, too. that's not true, man. they have feminine qualities and they deserve to be valued. to speak of wives not working is to insult them, because they work very hard in their homes. this work must be valued and considered to be worth at least as much as the work of men, if not more. the barbarity of our times is the economic compulsion of women to work outside the home because one salary is not enough to support a family. and that's with so much unemployment. they must not be required to do the same work as men, such as working shifts, being away from home for long periods of time, and so on. that's because we're not equal. women are more valuable because of their maternal role and deserve special respect and protection as such. they don't need the institute.
mr. chairman, please! the establishment of a european institute for gender equality is urgently needed, because even in the 21st century, we still face gender discrimination in the heart of europe. women, who make up 52% of european society, continue to experience discrimination in many areas of life. in order to effectively promote and implement gender equality policy in the enlarged union, the newly established institute should not limit itself to collecting statistical data but, above all, by carrying out a thorough analysis of the data, should develop appropriate recommendations and guidelines, effectively incorporating gender equality ideas into the scope of european legislation. equality between women and men, which the institute is to promote, is a fundamental right and a priority community policy enshrined in the treaty, which should be pursued in all areas of economic and social life, and in particular in access to employment and entrepreneurship. the future headquarters of the institute should be in a new part of the united europe, perhaps in poland the largest of the new countries, because the problem of discrimination is not only widespread there, but is often downplayed by the authorities in general.
mr. chairman, please! europe must defend itself, that's obvious. the increase of several hundred percent in footwear imports from countries such as china, but also vietnam (even more dynamic than the latter country) shows the scale of the risks. and of course we have to resort to certain instruments that are only ostensibly contrary to the free market. apparently, because manufacturing in continents like asia, in the sector we're talking about, has nothing to do with free markets because of the extremely cheap labor. it is obvious that the european union has the right to defend itself and to use normal economic procedures and instruments. but i would like to call for some consistency, because if we look at the fact that unemployment in this sector has affected several countries, particularly the european union, then those same countries refuse to recognize the free labour market within the european union. i think there is a clear lack of consistency here and i appeal to the governments of these member states in particular to be consistent.
mr. chairman, please! i join in congratulating our rapporteur. in an attempt to combat crime, the european union proposed a new mechanism in 2002: the european arrest warrant. today, almost four years later, we are evaluating the effectiveness of its implementation and answering the question: what can be done to make the criminal in europe no longer feel safe? let me make two points. first, it is regrettable that in its current legal form the european arrest warrant is a third pillar instrument and escapes the scrutiny of both the european parliament and the european court of justice. of course, that needs to change. on the other hand, it is necessary to recall today that the european constitution abolishes the pillars, develops the instruments of justice, makes the successive procedures common, thereby strengthening the union's effectiveness and making its decisions more transparent and democratic, and it is important to emphasize that the part of the constitutional treaty which describes these methods was not objected to, was not challenged during the recent ratification campaigns. it's a good sign for this institution. my second point is that, despite the successes of the implementation of the european arrest warrant, it faces serious legal obstacles in some countries. we've heard the discussions here from germany, from cyprus, we know about belgium and italy. my country poland also has problems with the implementation of the european arrest warrant and although we have introduced it into the code of criminal procedure and we are applying it, the constitutional court's judgment of april 2005 declared this warrant unconstitutional, giving us 18 months to change this situation. we have seven months left at this point. i want to believe that poland will be able to remove this contradiction.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the increase in the number of billionaires in the world, according to the latest data, is not keeping pace with the increase in the wealth of all citizens. on the contrary, the number of poor people is constantly increasing, both in the old and in the new union. of course, poverty, lack of social protection and lack of proper social integration are problems especially in the new member states. in poland, for example, we are faced with a paradoxical situation. the former socialist state today cares less for its citizens than the capitalist state has always done. the social problems of the 15 countries are linked to our own, such as high unemployment among educated young people and lack of access to universal health care. i'm not going to let you do this. the union is often criticised for being overregulated, but one non-existent one seems particularly needed. the european union should force member states to establish a social minimum so that all citizens feel safe, so that a reduced level of existential anxiety favours social integration.
mr. chairman, please! increasing globalisation is leading to restructuring of both businesses and jobs. one of the consequences of globalisation is also the concentration not only at local and national levels but also at international levels. large enterprises are increasingly crowding out small and medium-sized enterprises and are a major source of income for local communities. the restructuring varies from region to region. in the old member states, it raises fears of a reduction in employment, and in the new ones of the total disappearance of production and jobs. in the new member states, the hypermarkets and supermarkets, especially those built in city centres and large housing estates, have wreaked havoc on the labour market. the large department stores have caused a massive decline in retail trade and services in their surroundings and a significant increase in unemployment. the opening of one job in a hypermarket resulted in the elimination of 5-8 jobs in its surroundings. investors often fail to consider not only the human factor but also the human environment and historical materials. hence the problem was rightly noted in mrs bauer's report. in summary, the first victims of restructured workplaces are their workers and suppliers of goods, including agricultural producers. it is they who should be given help and care and the chance to find a new job, a new profession or a market for their products.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in taking part in the debate on the report by mrs ingeborg gräßle on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities, i would like to draw your attention to the following points. firstly, the european commission considers that after three years of operation of the financial regulation, there is no need to change its structure, nor the basic principles and concepts contained therein. secondly, the commission proposes a whole series of amendments, including: basic budgetary principles, recovery of claims where the draft envisages that community claims should be treated by the member states in the same way as national financial claims, and additionally sets a limitation period of 5 years for public contracts and contracts which contain amendments to bring them into line with the new community directive on public procurement adopted in 2004, and subsidies, which provides for simplification of control and guarantee provisions. the rapporteur has proposed a number of changes to the regulation as amended by the european commission, which are intended to improve the implementation of the eu budget and to make it easier for beneficiaries to access budgetary resources. while supporting most of these amendments, i would like to express the hope that the amended financial regulation adopted by the european commission and parliament will make the expenditure of the financial appropriations foreseen in the financial perspective for the period 2007-13 more efficient and transparent than before. it will be of particular importance for the new member states, for which the financial allocation for 2007-2013 is several times higher than it has been so far. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate mrs ingeborg gräßle on her excellent report.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the rapporteur on the idea and the way in which it was presented. the search for environmentally friendly fishing methods goes back as far as the history of fishing. the ancient world already introduced appropriate legal and technical solutions to ration fisheries and prevent the over-exploitation of stocks and the destruction of biomass, and thus the ecological balance. it was only in the peculiar atmosphere of the early 19th century that all the fishing brakes were released. by the end of the century, things were back to normal, and the security measures were being restored. it can be assumed that comprehensive, scientifically based safety standards were developed in the mid-20th century they preferred the so-called optimum catches, which consisted of regulating the age of the first catch. in addition, they have established the conservation dimension of the fish caught and the selectivity of fishing gear. on the other hand, they simply limited the limits, the effort and the potential. the specific issues discussed in the commentary require a new approach to the protection principles. in contrast to the conservation measures applied hitherto, which have mainly accompanied targeted catches, the protection of other hitherto undesirable fisheries is now proposed. it seems not only rational, but noble, as if inspired by a certain political correctness towards fish. but is it really environmentally friendly? experience shows that targeted fishing always weakens the biological strength of valuable species in the ecosystem. the ecological niche of the most valuable species may be taken over by the useless ones, and it is therefore necessary to recommend constant monitoring of their quantitative relationships.
mr. chairman, please! the report of the high level group chaired by mr wim kok gave a realistic assessment of the state of the european union's economy, which is in danger of being marginalised in relation to the asian and american markets. the global market is conducive to efficient, competitive economic organisms offering cheap and good products and services. the success of the lisbon strategy requires the direct involvement of the member states and parliaments in the work on the strategy's implementation programmes. the energy security programme can also create better, stable conditions for economic development. the strategy involves a large team of people and this can be a source of optimism. the problem is the effectiveness of the measures and the resistance to their implementation, such as the creation of the internal market, the labour market, the creation of a climate for restructuring and setting up businesses, the increase in innovation and thus the elimination of unemployment and the increase in wages. a consensus is needed between political groups, trade unions and employers. there is strong resistance to restructuring and regulating the agricultural market, limiting agricultural production. the unprofitability of some industries is causing many farms to be closed down, and increasing unemployment and unused land. it is therefore necessary to rapidly launch agricultural production with guaranteed sales, e.g. biofuels and biomass. a multiannual programme is needed to adapt agriculture to new market conditions. the elimination of protectionism, which does not create but reduces added value and increases social costs, is facing major obstacles. in conclusion, i would like to quote the optimistic words of the german president: 'we must turn challenges into opportunities for success'. i think we're going to do it.
mr. chairman, please! it is a pity that the rumours about the introduction of the lisbon strategy have remained mere rumours. the lisbon strategy is primarily concerned with the competitiveness of the union. as we all know, improving competitiveness requires, above all, an increase in productivity, and this threatens jobs. this threat will not materialize if the income growth induced by higher productivity is high enough, and this applies not only to individual countries but also to economies as integrated as the eu. however, the efficiency gains effect requires not only the implementation of technical progress but also the transfer of production from places where it is more expensive to places where it is cheaper. if the union feels the revenue from this operation increase, it will pay for everything, and failing to do so risks stagnation and loss of competitiveness, because the world is not standing still. so let's choose: either stagnation or risk that might pay off. the lisbon strategy is not to be feared, it is an opportunity for all of us.
mr president, a competitive european economy as set by the lisbon agenda cannot be built upon insecure gas and oil deliveries. it cannot be built on differentiated and uneven access to and security of energy supplies. it is contrary to the logic of the single market and competition principles. it is welcome, therefore, that security of energy supply constitutes one of the presidency’s and commission’s priorities. it is high time that the union undertook concrete action in this field. security of energy supply is crucial for the economic activity and competitiveness of the eu economy as a whole. energy, as we have witnessed recently, is also sometimes used as a weapon for exerting political influence. hence, it should also be considered within the context of foreign and security policy of the union. recent problems with energy supply expose our weakness, vulnerability and dependence on third parties. therefore it is essential for the eu to develop a true energy security policy. if we treat the internal market and the lisbon agenda seriously, we should endow our economic operators and citizens with equal access to and security of energy supplies. steps taken by the presidency, and especially the commission’s green paper, are going in the right direction, although they are too modest. solidarity is one of the main principles of european integration; it creates an obligation to assist all those states that are in difficulty. we must extend this principle of solidarity to problems related to energy supply shortages caused by political action. what we need in securing external energy supplies is cooperation and solidarity, not competition between member states. energy security also has a financial aspect: the biggest cutbacks in the financial perspective, as agreed by the council, occurred in the field of trans-european energy networks. we have to remedy that situation in the course of budgetary trialogue, otherwise our priorities will remain on paper. energy security also constitutes one of the cornerstones of the neighbourhood policy. close cooperation in the energy security field is indispensable and the most effective confidence-building measure, both within the european union as well as between the union and its neighbours.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i promise to be as brief as possible. there has been a great deal of important and interesting talk on this subject, and i can assure mr poettering and mrs berger that the chancellor, despite his absence, is following very closely what the european parliament has to say. of course, this will also play an important role in the preparation. i would like to say to mrs berger that the fact that i am here today should not be interpreted as a lack of ambition. on the contrary, the austrian presidency has the ambition to achieve substantial results together with the commission in the interests of the european citizens. i can also tell mr schulz that we are of course aware that the appropriate financial resources must be used. it is not just european money, it is also national money. and it's about the quality and the efficiency of the funds. we should not always look at the amount of funds, but we should also make sure that the right funds are used in the right places. mr watson, i certainly agree with you that there are many subjects which the european council ought to deal with, but with limited time not everything can be dealt with. as to your reference to metternich, i assure you that metternich is not a role model for us. his way of seeing europe is not the way we see europe. we do not want a directory of five big countries that rule the rest. let us remember that he was the head of a police state, which we do not want either. i would like to say to mrs harms that sustainability is of course a very important issue in the european union, and i would remind her that the sustainability strategy is to be reviewed by mid-2006. i can assure you that sustainability is of course also an important part of all the efforts of the council and the commission. i have a word with mr bonde. i would like to reject in the strongest possible terms the view that the states which, in the exercise of their sovereign rights, wish to continue the ratification procedure for the constitutional treaty are acting illegally. (applause from the right) i refer to the decision of the european council of june, which provided for the period of reflection, where it was explicitly stated that there was no question of the justification for continuing the ratification process. i believe that the council is also working at full speed to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. it may very well be, mr kirkhope, that the council does not operate on high octane, unlike the president of the commission. maybe we operate more on biofuel, in accordance with the spirit of our time. in this context, several speakers also mentioned the commission's better regulation initiative. i would like to thank commissioner verheugen in particular for his presence here and encourage him to continue with this initiative, because it is an initiative which our citizens understand and which brings the european union closer to the citizens. mr rasmussen and others have mentioned the question of flexicurity. i can confirm and emphasize that this is about flexibility through security as an overarching paradigm for reforms in the field of labour and social policy. the aim is, of course, to achieve a balance between flexibility and security in european labour markets. mr titley, i agree with you that action is needed, because this will convince our citizens. we, together with the commission, are determined to take the right steps towards taking this action.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. growth and employment are the key words of the lisbon strategy, but it seems to me that the terms need to be clarified again. when we talk about growth in europe in the 21st century, we cannot talk about any other growth than sustainable growth, which is socially acceptable and ecologically responsible. anything else means we haven't learned anything from the past decades. i ask you to take note of this. when the commission speaks of growth, it speaks of sustainable growth. this includes eco-innovation, this includes energy efficiency, this includes competition for better quality, but not competition for lower social standards, lower environmental standards or lower wages. let's get this straight. when we talk about employment, we are not talking about any kind of employment, but we have recognized: the great social question of our time is whether we will manage to provide enough well-paid and skilled jobs in the storms of globalisation. that's the big question at hand. it is not just any jobs, it is jobs that will survive in times of increasing competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. they must be told very clearly that the time to change course is now. the step towards the knowledge society must now be taken with all determination. we cannot afford societies in europe that have an educational policy that excludes instead of promotes or discriminates instead of integrates. we need an education policy which fully exploits the educational resources of this continent. we cannot afford a social policy which gives young women a good education but does not give them the chance to do something with that education because the reconciliation of family and work has not been established. and we cannot afford a social policy that simply throws older workers out of the production process because it is thought that they are no longer needed. all this is no longer possible today, and our strategy makes that very clear. we also say that the european internal market, a policy which faces international competition, is favourable to growth and employment, and that is why this commission does not believe in economic patriotism of any kind. we would point out once again that if we want the single european market, we must also accept the fact that companies are being formed which operate across borders in this large european market. (applause from the centre) the european market also includes european companies. the commission is concerned about the renationalisation of economic thinking in some parts of the european union. it warns against this renationalisation. the right way forward, as almost all the speakers have said, is to tackle europe's problems together. i have something to say to the european companies. we have for years pursued a policy of improving the conditions for european enterprises. but we expect european companies, especially now that the biggest of them are doing better than ever before in their history, to be aware of their responsibility for the location of europe. companies not only have a responsibility for short-term profits, they also have a responsibility for the location they occupy. (applause from the centre) and when a company uses redundancy in its restructuring, it is not primarily the policy that is responsible, but we are dealing here primarily with a failure of companies, because companies can recognize in time when structural change is necessary and when it must be designed. and we are asking european companies to do more to shape structural change in a positive way. dismissals are always the worst possible way of dealing with this and it does not have to be used. (applause from the centre) but we must say one more thing to european companies: you can also grow by using high corporate profits to create new products, develop new technologies, create new capacity, and not just by buying other companies. i would like to point out in all sincerity that all the experience of the acquisition of companies over the last twenty years shows that in most cases no positive business and economic effect has been achieved at all. i would prefer that european companies use the large profits they have made recently to invest in new capacity - research and production capacity - in europe, rather than funding campaigns to take over other companies. there is also a demand to the parliamentarians. the commission has rightly complained that the public is not involved in the development of the strategy for growth and jobs. this is a task for national politicians and national parliaments. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to talk to your colleagues in the national parliaments in your home countries about putting this issue on the national political agenda. it is not the commission's job to persuade opposition politicians in the member states to do their job and to ensure that this issue is brought up. that is the job of parliamentarians! i'm asking you to use your influence here. only if we succeed in launching a broad parliamentary debate, a broad political debate also in the member states, will we create the necessary awareness that a joint effort not only of politicians but of citizens is necessary to preserve our competitiveness. (parliament adopted the resolution)
i hope that everyone in this room takes what has been said seriously. i accept criticism and will respond, if necessary, either in the language more familiar to the european union or with a hammer. i have received two draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on the balkans: i think it was the right moment and i feel encouraged by the decision to make the balkans a priority of the austrian presidency of the council. it was the right time for an enlargement debate. we did a good job of it in salzburg. i think that was progress, because the worst thing is to keep quiet and not talk about the issues, not bring them to the people, not explain what it is about, what you do and why you do it. i therefore welcome the debate we have had, including the debate on the frustrations on the part of the western balkan countries. i reject the idea that the salzburg declaration is a formulaic compromise or even a step backwards, but i ask you to study the wording carefully. i would point out that in paragraph 3 we explicitly speak of eu membership as a long-term goal, as the 'ultimate goal in conformity with the thessaloniki declaration'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the time, place and content of the conditions are being worked out. we are doing this in the council together with javier solana, also in contact with the congolese authorities. we all have a great interest in bringing clarity to this as soon as possible. on iran, it is time for a diplomatic struggle at the united nations. the aim is indeed - as one speaker has said - to strengthen the authority of the international atomic energy agency and to promote the implementation of the many relevant resolutions adopted on this subject. in conclusion, let me say a few words about the current developments in jericho, but also in gaza. we are very concerned about yesterday's developments. we have stressed the need for appropriate measures to restore order and calm. we have said that the israeli violent action in jericho and the subsequent activities of palestinian extremists may lead to further destabilisation of the already tense situation in the middle east. we have called on israel and the palestinian authority to exercise restraint. both sides are now being asked to weigh the implications of their actions very carefully. we have strongly condemned the hostage-taking and - as secretary of state winkler has told you today - have called on the palestinian authority to take immediate action to ensure the safety and security of european citizens and buildings now and in the future. the aid we are prepared to give, namely humanitarian aid, can also only be given in a peaceful environment. all sides must now contribute to this peaceful environment.
member of the commission. mr president, as i said before the break, commissioner ferrero-waldner will present the commission’s views on the middle east, palestine and iran later this evening. i will comment on the next agenda item: issues related to enlargement and absorption capacity. i should also like to use this opportunity to congratulate mrs plassnik on her personal commitment to the policy on the western balkans. it has been extremely important and the austrian presidency has taken new steps towards integrating this region into the european mainstream. that is indispensable to the security and stability of the whole of europe and of the union. all participants in the debate have recognised that the road ahead for the western balkans is a challenging one and that many reforms must be implemented before the countries meet the required criteria. it is equally clear that there is a consensus in this house on the absolutely fundamental role the european union plays and is bound to play in the western balkans through a credible accession perspective – albeit a medium- to long-term perspective – but a credible accession perspective. that is the driving force behind the reforms and that is the basis of our work on security and stability. especially with a view to the kosovo status process, we all have to be extremely responsible as regards the western balkans and its stability. we should not undermine the eu perspective, which is the foundation of security and stability in the region. thus, to avoid eroding our own credibility, we cannot take back with the left hand what we gave with the right hand. the key objectives to work for are security, stability and progress in the western balkans.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the report by mr elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the commission's strategy paper on enlargement (2005) (2005/2206 (ini)) (a6-0025/2006).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is very important that we have the opportunity today to talk about enlargement thanks to the report drawn up by mr elmar brok. we certainly need a strengthened neighbourhood policy and some new, much more serious form of relations between the union and the countries that border it. the existing neighbourhood policy is not a sufficient instrument. this is demonstrated by the fact that, during its implementation, the countries covered by it experienced crises and periods of large-scale destabilisation. the new forms of cooperation proposed in the report must not, however, close the road to membership. we must realize today that either we offer the countries beyond our eastern border the prospect of membership, or our appeals for democracy, a market economy and respect for human rights will remain empty words. without even a distant prospect of membership, these countries will be returned to the orbit of russian influence and all that goes with it in terms of both democracy and human rights. however, in the same report we have the development and consolidation of the thinking about enlargement in terms of absorption capacity. this category has never been defined precisely and is today only a clever-sounding excuse, a cheap excuse for withdrawing from the enlargement process. if this absorption capacity is to be made conditional on the adoption of the constitutional treaty, then one gets the impression that the authors of this provision want to close the door to anyone once and for all. the treaty as we know it today cannot be reintroduced. the demand that the european commission define the borders of the union is wrong. this will lead to embarrassing discussions between politicians on geography and will definitely weaken the union's influence on the processes of democratization, stabilisation and strengthening of pro-western policies in the neighbouring countries. very often, this parliament has been the vanguard of the integration process. he had a long-range agenda. today, the same parliament is the most conservative and passive force. the question is, why?
mr. chairman, please! it is a myth that a union that does not enlarge will be a strong and competitive union. but there's another myth that the union can expand indefinitely, like russia. let's get straight to the enlargement priorities. the countries of south-eastern europe, after bulgaria and romania, which are due to join the union in 2007 instead of 2008. after croatia and macedonia, we should open the door to serbia, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, kosovo and albania. it's a logical course. it's a matter of strategic thinking, it's also a matter of increasing security on the old continent. it's actually going to be economically viable. we will spend less on enlargement with the other balkan countries than on putting money into the bottomless balkan pre-accession bag. the cost of mitigating the permanent conflicts in this region of europe is more than the cost of these countries being in the union and thus respecting the eu's political and economic rules of the game. let us not be afraid of the enlargement of the union to include more countries. i know that fear is a trend these days. it is particularly useful in the successive electoral campaigns that are continuously running in the various countries of the union. if our union is to be more economically efficient and not lose its distance from america and asia, it must gradually eliminate the division into europe a - the union and europe b - what is outside the union. history also shows that an enlarged union is a safer union. the invitation to negotiate accession, even with the uncertain prospect of joining the union, is like the starting flag being raised before a car race. cars need to have a target, know where the target is. then they can make a long journey, overcoming many bends and even defects. but it's about triggering the accretion impulse. the draft resolution of our parliament rightly emphasises that this is the impetus that has supported reforms in turkey, croatia and the western balkan countries. yes, expansion costs money, especially in the short term, but it's a good investment in the long term.
mr president, i welcome this generally positive report by mr brok. i welcome its boldness in recognising the fact that the western balkans should be an integral part of the european union in the future. i am convinced that we have to respect our commitments; we cannot close the doors to those countries that were offered a membership perspective or to those countries that deserve such a perspective in future in the light of the eu treaty provisions. let us not, however, repeat our old mistakes. we have to be prepared for enlargement. first and foremost we have to provide the financing. we also have to prepare our citizens for the enlargement perspective by explaining the great benefits of it. we have to stop making past and future enlargement a scapegoat for our internal, mostly domestic, problems and inaction. in preparing for enlargement, we have to be rigorous, we have to adhere to conditionality, we have to be sincere with our partners. let us not, however, be overly dogmatic. it is perfectly possible to open the doors to croatia without the constitutional treaty. it is enough to introduce the necessary adjustments in the accession treaty. croatia should not be a victim or hostage of our problems with the constitutional treaty. i welcome the report’s innovativeness and courage. we could discuss the idea of intermediate steps towards reaching accession provided they were not permanent – intermediate steps, yes, but not as a substitute for membership. various considerations should not be used as an alibi for inaction or for closing the doors to countries that will one day merit membership, such as ukraine. the union’s borders are already defined by the eu treaty, which provides that ‘any european state which respects the principles ...’, etc. finally, let me repeat: enlargement is one of the most successful of the union’s policies and therefore we should make good use of its potential to build a strong, secure and influential union, faithful to its values of solidarity, democracy and openness.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to stress the particular responsibility of the european union in creating on the european continent a community of states, peoples and citizens based on peace, liberal democracy, human rights, a market economy and the rule of law. on the one hand, we are faced today with the question of the european union's capacity to expand further, to open up truly. on the other hand, the problem of defining the nature of the european union, including its geographical boundaries. the absorption capacity is currently hampered by the impasse in the ratification process of the treaty establishing a constitution for europe, by the obstacles to deepening political and strategic integration within the 25 member states of the union. at the same time, the european union institutions must implement enlargement strategies in the coming years under strictly defined conditions and taking into account the commitments made by the union towards turkey, croatia and all the western balkan countries. the european union should also develop a long-term european perspective towards the eastern european countries, especially towards ukraine.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm taking the floor on the merger of two banking groups, unicredito italiano and hvb, which has caused a lot of controversy in poland. in 1999, unicredito acquired a controlling stake in one of the largest polish banks, pekao s.a. it was, as it turned out, a perfect deal. seven years later, their stock is worth four times that. however, by buying the polish bank, the italians undertook not to make a capital investment in any company operating in poland that competed with the bank. the acquisition of shares in hvb, and thus indirectly in another polish bank, bph, is therefore a clear breach of the privatisation agreement, and the polish authorities are even obliged to block the merger and enforce the terms of the agreement. it is worth emphasising that the polish government's aim in this dispute is not to prevent a foreign entity from taking control of a domestic company, as has recently happened in france, spain or italy. therefore, the accusations of protectionism made against the polish authorities are completely unfounded in this case. it should also be borne in mind that while the european commission has powers over mergers with a community dimension, contractual obligations and banking supervision are already national competence. so i hope the european commission will take these arguments into account and end the festival of threats against poland in this matter.
mr. chairman, please! community law regulates mergers and acquisitions in the internal market by establishing a competition policy which is one of the main and earliest agreed community policies. it is intended to ensure that barriers to internal trade within the common market are not replaced by other actions by companies or governments that distort competition. unfortunately, recent events suggest that protectionist and short-sighted measures are being taken in some member states. these include the german e.on bid to take over the spanish endesa, the merger of the french gas giant gaz de france and the international oil and energy group suez based in italy, and more recently the polish government's blocking of the merger of banks pekao s.a. and bph, which is the result of the merger of the german hvb group and the italian unicredito. the objection of the polish government in the light of community law has a dubious legal basis and puts poland in a bad light vis-à-vis foreign investors. unfortunately, this case has also become a tool of the right-wing government's fight against the independence of the national bank of poland, the central bank.
mr. chairman, please! the united nations general assembly today voted to establish a human rights council to replace the compromised un commission on human rights. the new un council, although it does not meet many of the requirements in terms of effective monitoring of the human rights situation and responding to violations of human rights in various countries of the world, is nevertheless a step forward in shaping a new international architecture based on respect for fundamental rights and political freedoms. the council's creation was supported by nobel peace prize winners. the council was supported by human rights organisations such as amnesty international, human rights watch, the open society institute and the soros foundation network. the european union should now play a key role in the un human rights council. the european parliament has the opportunity to take a pioneering step towards empowering the council to create a new system for the defence of human rights on a global scale. in transatlantic relations, the european union should persuade the united states - one of the four countries that voted against the council - to cooperate closely in the human rights council and to further reform the un.
mr. chairman, please! the work of the former un commission on human rights has been met with very harsh criticism from almost all sides. she was accused of both excessive politicization and actions and corruption. the ambitious attempts to reform it and transform it into a human rights council with greater independence of action are therefore to be welcomed. although the directions of change appear to be well recognised, there is a danger that they will be partially blocked in international talks on the scope of the proposed changes. the european parliament should make its position on this matter clear, stressing the need for these changes to promote and develop a culture of the rule of law and democratic governance in the world. the most important issue related to this reform is the independence of the body mentioned above. the charter of the united nations is an essential means to that end. the selection of candidates should be substantially changed they should be elected by the general assembly by a majority of votes that would preclude the accidental entry of a country whose authorities are themselves acting in a way that raises questions about human rights standards. it is also important that each candidate from each country is voted on even if the number of candidates from a given region does not exceed the number of seats allocated to that region. the exclusion of countries such as libya as happened in previous years, or cuba as it is now, is one of the fundamental steps towards the un regaining credibility in promoting human rights in the world. it is also important to reduce the size of the institution so that it can become more efficient in its activities and more effective in its decision-making. the reform of the commission on human rights represents a great opportunity to achieve a significant improvement in the human rights situation in the world. however, this issue cannot be seen as a one-off change, but as an opportunity to open a process of continuous improvement of the human rights system to the status of a trusted mechanism of global public opinion, which identifies the most serious human rights violations in the world, regardless of political affiliation.
mr. chairman, please! it is unacceptable that in the face of the rampant human rights violations, the world is without an organization that can put a stigma on these events. the un commission on human rights has unfortunately become a symbol of the indolence of this organization in recent years. it was a club of countries known for their human rights violations, such as china, sudan, zimbabwe and russia. and their main goal was to prevent any discussion of their own. the human rights council project is an attempt to create an institution that would respond more quickly to crises in the world and would go beyond sending a symbolic un mission to a criticized country. the project is not perfect, but it seems that even an obligation for the council to review the situation in each of its member states would prevent the abuses that have been committed among its members. the establishment of a human rights council is without doubt the best solution for the compromised un commission in the current situation. the new institution should have the strong support of the european union to be able to respond effectively to global human rights challenges.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the objectives pursued by both draft regulations appear to be justified. it is difficult not to support the increase in farmers' incomes, fair conditions of competition and protection against imitation of original products. however, there are doubts as to whether the targets will be realistic. let's look at the results of existing solutions so far. only 15 agricultural products and foodstuffs have been registered as traditional specialities guaranteed throughout the union so far. do we have to create complex procedures and red tape for a dozen or so products? will the farmer-producer really benefit? more than 700 names have been registered at union level under the system for the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin: 150 cheeses, 160 types of meat or meat products, 150 types of fruit and vegetables, 80 types of olive oil. there are 300 new applications waiting to be processed. are we not soon to find ourselves in an absurd situation bordering on ridiculous? in a few years, we'll have thousands of original product names trying to take over supermarkets all over europe. we'll be exhausted as customers and the expensive administration will prove ineffective in processing requests. wouldn't it be better to drop the administrative regulation of local delicacies? if you turn a delicacy into a mass-produced product, it ceases to be a delicacy. let them continue to be the natural attraction of individual towns or regions, but without eu support.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the uen group, i would like to congratulate mr graefe zu baringdorf on his excellent report. i am glad that we will have the necessary facilities for registering regional food products and that we will have more of these products, or rather that these products will be more familiar to us, because these are traditional products that have been on the market for a long time. promoting traditional regional products that draw on the heritage of local communities is the real future of europe. we can be really good at this, better than others, and this is how we can build a european market that is on the one hand uniform but on the other hand rich in the diversity of regional specialties. this is a great opportunity for regional producers, but above all it is good news for consumers, because products prepared according to traditional recipes and methods developed over generations are better and healthier than mass-produced products. it's also our best response to the challenge of biotech companies forcing us to consume their mass-produced genetically engineered foods. we should be clear. we want to eat healthy, diverse, traditional, regional products and we do not want to be forced to consume food produced by methods that cheat nature.
mr. chairman, please! the common agricultural policy of recent decades, which has encouraged farmers to produce more without regard for quality, has resulted in two mercedes in a farmer's backyard and indigestible food in shops, and it is not cheap. you have to pay extra for organic products to buy normal food. it is cynical to say that today's consumers value quality over quantity. they just want to eat food again that they haven't seen in a long time, and they have a right to. we are spending the bulk of our budget on the common agricultural policy, and still mainly in the old member states. it is to be hoped that these regulations on the protection of geographical indications, designations of origin and traditional specialities, which simplify the procedures in place, will help to favour those farmers who produce healthy and tasty food. i would like to thank the commission and the rapporteur for taking up such an important subject. i hope that farmers, especially those in the new member states who have not yet had the time or money to take up industrial agriculture, will be paid for their traditional production. we don't have the fine processing that french cuisine has, but we do have healthy, tasty produce and food.
mr. chairman, please! in congratulating the rapporteur on two excellent reports, i would like to express my conviction that it is precisely these new regulations adopted by parliament that will contribute to the development of the agri-food industry and, above all, to the revitalization of rural areas by promoting their traditions and cultural values and increasing employment outside agriculture. i believe that transparent and simplified registration procedures and a clear division of responsibilities between the member states and the commission will help to protect producers and consumers, citizens of the union and, above all, all those who produce these products, more effectively against unfair counterfeiting, misappropriation of names, copying of formulations and other fraudulent practices by those seeking to make a quick profit. the proposed regulations are an important contribution to ensuring a reliable quality system for registered products, which enjoy high trust and increasing popularity in the union and worldwide, and will be available not only under the producer's brand but also under the european union's brand.
mr. chairman, please! it is good that we are having a joint debate on the reports submitted by mr graefe zu baringdorf. in one of them, in point 5 of the explanatory memorandum, it is stated that 'the purpose of the proposals is to simplify the specification of procedures and to define precisely the competences of the various authorities which are required to take the appropriate steps when examining the application'. this and other provisions, including paragraph 9, give hope that we will avoid bureaucratic procedures and legal inconsistencies in the final council regulations. this is particularly important for the regulation on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs. we must remember that geographical names are part of the heritage of local communities and nations and that it is their responsibility to protect them. the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for foodstuffs at community level should be of a purely ancillary nature and be designed to prevent unfair practices. however, the power to impose penalties at national level, as referred to in article 11 (3), 'should be reserved to the state authorities'. regional products and foodstuffs must contribute to regional development and enhance the tourist offer, including agro-tourism. no one wants a union where everyone everywhere wears the same clothes, eats the same food and speaks the same language.
mr. chairman, please! we are talking today about the protection of traditional agricultural specialities. the regulation refers to the one-generation period of manufacture of an article needed to qualify it for the traditional method of manufacture. the amendment to define only those products as traditional that were used before world war ii is a cause for concern. it discriminates against eastern european countries. as a result of world war ii, poland lost half of its territory, and several million people were displaced to the recovered lands. so the continuity of tradition was broken. even during the communist period, the production of traditional products on a commercial scale was prohibited. only a dozen years ago, after regaining independence, the society in the individual regions returned to the traditional production of healthy food products, such as traditional polish sausages and hams. it was impossible before. the second very important issue is whether foodstuffs will be adequately controlled for quality, whether the spread of gm plants in europe will not lead to contamination of traditional products. there are countries in europe where genetically modified crops have spread beyond all control and will soon threaten traditional products because of their altered composition. the list of foodstuffs recorded as traditional in the annex should also be extended to include tannery products.
i was informed that as of yesterday, 15 march 2006, the independence/democracy group is composed of the following 22 members: gerard batten, bastiaan belder, johannes blokland, godfrey bloom, jens-peter bonde, graham booth, derek roland clark, paul marie coûteaux, nigel farage, hélène goudin, georgios karatzaferis, roger knapman, patrick louis, nils lundgren, michael henry nattrass, kathy sinnott, jeffrey titford, philippe de villiers, john whittaker, thomas wise, lars wohlin and vladimír železný. the president of the european parliament, mr antonio tajani, has been appointed by the president of the european council, mr antonio tajani, on the basis of a proposal from the commission, on the basis of a proposal from the european parliament, by the council, on the basis of a proposal from the commission, by the european parliament, by the council and by the commission.
thank you very much, your attention will be noted.
thank you very much, your attention will be noted.
thank you very much. your statement will be noted.
thank you very much. thank you. we'll consider this matter in another fashion. i'm closing this item.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr antonios trakatellis on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme of community action in the field of health and consumer protection covering the period 2007 to 2013 health aspects (com (2005) 0115 - c6-0097/2005 - 2005/0042a (cod)) (a6-0030/2006).
mr. chairman, please! as a doctor, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that modern science has identified the psychological underpinnings of most of the diseases that are termed psychosomatic, from obesity to cardiovascular disease to hypertension, but also to autoimmune diseases and cancers, and that this should be brought to the attention of the knowledge-based society, and especially to the leaders of the european union's law-making process. community policy could play a major role in the prevention and protection of public health, not only in relation to the diseases defined as civilization-related but also in relation to mental disorders. however, a change in lifestyle from a liberal, unethical lifestyle to one based on ethical and moral principles, and through spiritual order and mental integration, is the prevention of personal retardation from mental disorders and all forms of addiction, including nicotine, alcoholism, drug addiction and other forms of self-destruction. huge sums of money are spent on treating the effects of addiction alone, but they are wasted because of the lack of legal limits. the same problem exists with consumer protection, which is sometimes declarative because of the dominance of rich monopolies on the market, which defend their interests by spending huge sums on advertising. the flood of manipulated information should be replaced by the implementation of, for example, the eu's standard slogans on respect for fundamental rights.
mr. chairman, please! although health services are the domain of the member states, the european union should make the best use of the possibilities for complementing national action in the interest of the community as a whole. it is therefore unacceptable for the union budget for the coming years to limit expenditure in areas affecting the standard of living of citizens, including in particular healthcare. the european union can and should contribute to the protection of the health and safety of its citizens, especially since the disparities in the health sector of the member states have increased since the last enlargement. the marked differences in life expectancy, health status and access to health care are closely linked to the level of development of individual countries. a new health programme aimed at improving the general health of citizens and at prevention in a broad sense should close these gaps. high standards of health protection should be the aim of all community policies. the main objective now is to reduce inequalities in access to and quality of healthcare in the member states by introducing comparable standards and ensuring greater transparency in national health systems. the new programme could be particularly useful in the case of cross-border public health threats, as it would allow for common strategies and actions to protect health and safety, eliminate potential risks, promote the health-related economic interests of citizens and reduce costs for them. improving the flow of information on the availability and reimbursement of medical services across the eu will also help to promote the mobility of patients and healthcare professionals, which is one of the challenges facing the eu in the health sector, as the author of this very important report, professor trakatellis, rightly points out.
mr. chairman, please! i am speaking on the basis of rules 29 and 30 of parliament's rules of procedure in connection with the statement read today at 10 a.m. by the president of the european parliament on the restructuring of the ind/dem group. i, as the chairman of the board of the ind/dem group, wish to inform you of the following. the independence and democracy group in the european parliament is made up of 33 meps from 10 eu member states. this composition of the independence and democracy group was confirmed at the meeting of the ind/dem group which took place on 14 march this year. the ind/dem did not hold any further meetings after that date. consequently, no legal procedure was initiated to modify the composition of the group. any information on the change of group composition should be considered as unfounded and without legal effect. the new list of ind/dem mps submitted to the president of the parliament includes the names of 7 poles, but unfortunately, i think, we were not even given the opportunity to sign it. the others wouldn't have signed if they knew the poles wouldn't be there. and to do this kind of backstage action that goes against any principle of democracy means that the reason is one: the money of uninvited mps. therefore, as the chairman of the ind/dem group, i demand that the group's funds be frozen until the situation is clarified and a written statement is made. (applause from the right)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this short request needs a short explanation. mr president, in paragraph 21 we have 'believes that a democratic and secular turkey could play a constructive role ...'. i propose deleting the word secular because it is ambiguous. if we think of the state, of the government, of the parliament, it would be right; but "a secular turkey" means the whole nation. we have no right to demand that turkish people should be deprived of respect for their own religion. imagine if the azerbaijani parliament were to say that it would supply us with petrol provided we were all believers or non-believers. i think it 's playing with fire to demand from people such ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the community action programme in the field of health and consumer protection for 2007-13 sets out how the european union intends to improve health protection and increase consumer confidence by applying the provisions of the treaty. the common strategy for consumer protection in the european union is a set of actions such as better understanding of consumers and markets, better consumer protection legislation, better enforcement, monitoring and redress, better consumer information and education. the problem is something else. europe is losing food security. there is a growing number of genetically modified, unwanted and potentially harmful foods on the eu market, both for human health and for our environment. the public feels threatened by gmos. this is reflected in numerous protests, the emerging social movement against gmos and regional government resolutions. the second threat to health and consumers, besides the spread of genetically modified food, is the concentration of agricultural production and the exclusion of family farms producing healthy food. the chemicals in agriculture, the pollution of soil, water, air, and many food products are not good for man. it is high time that the good and health of man become the highest value, that man wins with capital.
mr. chairman, please! international cooperation in the field of consumer protection pursues risk-protection objectives and enhances citizens' decision-making. it improves the quality of life of european union citizens by increasing safety and confidence in products on the internal market. community networks providing consumers with the necessary information and support in the field of legal aid, mediation and other forms of dispute resolution should therefore be maintained and developed. the activities of solvit are of particular importance in this respect. this is an existing mechanism that serves consumers. it is also important to build trust in products by taking action to strengthen the fight against counterfeiting, which should be treated as simple theft of a brand or trademark. in this context, particular attention should be paid to actions to improve consumer information on the health and safety risks that may arise from the use of certain counterfeit goods, such as medicines and cosmetics. consumer protection policy must also be pursued through consumer organisations. they are active in most member states, but often, especially in the new countries of the union, their budgets and capacities are limited. the question of funding this type of organisation seems to be non-negotiable. consumer protection costs money, but it's the money we should be paying.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to protest against the use of the words "fellow newcomers, you read too fast". if a member reads too fast, it means that he reads too fast, no matter what country he is from, new or old.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the political situation in moldova is an example of how political declarations are mixed with both the ability to implement them and the good will to do so. in 1999, russia committed itself to withdrawing its troops stationed in transnistria, moldova, by the end of 2002. however, so far, the sovereignty and constitutional indivisibility of the country's territory have not been recognized by russia through the withdrawal of its military branch. the transnistrian region is one of the most industrially rich parts of moldova. the maintenance of a self-styled political body there is a major obstacle to the normalisation of the country's economic situation and to allowing it to begin the process of adequately preparing for any talks with the european union on membership, or even association. russia's policy is to use all possible means to ensure its power in the region of central and eastern europe, which it regards as its natural base of influence. the transnistrian regime maintained by the former red army is a clear example of disregard for people, citizens and their rights. degenerate units are running massive illegal arms deals and other criminal activities. the russian government's promises to withdraw this army have once again proved to be nothing more than a political game played with no respect for political partners, including the european union states. it's a game designed to lull the public into sleep. i would like to ask: how are we going to shape european defence policy when we cannot force our partners to respect such obvious commitments on areas that are so close to home? where else can the persuasive power of the 25 member states be seen but in matters as urgent as this, as important also from the point of view of our own security? if we want all the slogans about defence policy to make sense, we have to rise to the challenge in specific cases like this one and show our willingness to enforce compliance by any partner - no matter how strong - with the commitments in question.
the author. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the dictatorship of the self-proclaimed transnistrian authorities, characterised by extreme repression and ideological backwardness, is causing great concern in europe. while moldova has already made significant progress towards democratization and respect for civil liberties, fundamental human rights continue to be violated in transnistria. the brutal arrests, the inhumane conditions of detention, the lack of freedom of expression and assembly are daily realities in this region that cannot be tolerated in today's europe. transnistria is notorious for ignoring the rulings of the international community. it has been 18 months since the international court of human rights ruled on ilasek and other opposition activists. so far, none of them have been released. the withdrawal of russian troops from the self-proclaimed transnistrian republic, as agreed at the 1999 osce summit in istanbul, is a necessary step in the settlement of the conflict with moldova. so far, moscow has broken its commitments by continuing to provide economic and political support to the local dictatorship and repressive regime. while welcoming moldova's efforts to promote institutional reforms and respect for the rights of national minorities, including romanian ones, as an important step towards building a democratic dialogue with the european union, we are also hearing reports of widespread corruption and the illegal trafficking of women and children. the moldovan authorities should continue their efforts to establish a stable and independent judiciary as well as political pluralism in the country. the european union must take decisive steps to resolve the transnistrian problem, and a strengthened eu-moldova dialogue can help to resolve the long-standing conflict and stabilise the situation in this region of europe.
on behalf of the pse group. - i'm not going to tell you. the so-called transnistrian republic of moldova on the territory of independent moldova, which represents 1/5 of its area and most of its industry, is recognized as a state despite the opposition of the international community. i would like to draw attention to the violation of human rights, the restriction of media freedom and the populist-authoritarian system of transnistria, which uses the flag of the former soviet republic of moldova. ngos are particularly hard pressed to operate in transnistria. the new political initiative of president igor smirnov, the international youth corporation proryv, is modeled on the putinist youth movement in our russia. proryv is an extremely populist organization that is supposed to prevent democratic changes in transnistria. the ideology of this organization is based on the soviet-slavophile ideology of pro-russian nationalism. proryv is close to the transnistrian part of vladimir zhirinovsky's russian party and works closely with the russian eurasian movement. the european union must take a closer look at the situation in transnistria from the point of view of human rights and the development of democracy in this part of europe.
mr. chairman, please! today we talk a lot about belarus, i defend belarus! it is not true that belarus is the least democratic country in europe. the leader of this blacklist is the so-called transnistrian republic of moldova. this country is not recognized by anyone in the world except russia, and this country in turn does not recognize human and civil rights. political prisoners and attacks on ngos, which the press has labelled as " lice ", are proof of this. and that is not the case in the republic of moldova either, but we appreciate the efforts of that country on its way to full democracy and eventually the european union. the conflict between transnistria and moldova is being overshadowed by russian interests, which seem to be adding fuel to the fire. you can't ignore that aspect. the president of moldova, the communist woronin, is talking about demilitarizing, democratizing and decriminalizing transnistria. in turn, the official newspaper of the regime of president smirnov of transnistria proposes the devoronization of moldova and help moldova in democratization, i.e. the republic of moldova to get rid of the communists and their leader. it may be funny, but it's not funny anymore, because human rights are being violated, people are in prison. then the laughter dies on your lips.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: kazakh political opposition protests after the assassination of altynbek sarsenbayev, a former minister and ambassador who in 2003 defected to the opposition and began criticizing the political system built by president nursultan nazarbayev. on february 26, a rally in alma ata attended by about 1,500 people, the body of 43-year-old sarsenbayev was discovered with gunshot wounds to the back and head next to the bodies of his bodyguard and driver. the suspects in the murder are officers from the national security committee. the head of the national security committee nartay dubaev has resigned. i would also like to point out that reporters without borders accuses the kazakh authorities of censoring the internet and restricting freedom of expression in traditional media. on december 15 last year, security forces raided the offices of the weekly magazine pravo ekonomika politika kultura after the weekly published a letter signed by the chairman of the electoral commission, stating partial fraud in the presidential election on december 4. on december 20, juma-times was shut down by a court in alma ata on charges of damaging the reputation of president nazarbayev.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: kazakhstan is an important country with a great history, one of the largest countries in europe, yes, europe, because about 150,000 km2 of its territory lies within the geographical boundaries of our continent. this is the country where thousands of my polish compatriots, who were exiled there during the stalinist regime, still live today. but historically and politically, kazakhstan is of course part of central asia. it's also a post-communist and post-soviet country. we have to be aware of this history and remember that the word democracy is not always understood there in the same way as it is here in europe, in countries with centuries of democratic tradition. i was in kazakhstan as one of the european parliament observers during the presidential elections. it is true that this is not a country with a model democracy, but it must be admitted that the authorities of the republic are doing a lot to democratize public life and, above all, to bring the country closer to the values of the western world, to modernize this country. we should appreciate that. and we should support that process in a thoughtful way. the resolution under debate contains some very good points about the death of mr sarsenbaev, an opposition politician, but the draft also contains some unfounded suspicions. it happens in many countries that politicians are killed in attacks or accidents, but this is not evidence of political intrigue. i therefore call for moderation in the text of the resolution and for the adoption of several proposed amendments.
on behalf of the ni group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's debate on human rights violations is about the evasion of accountability by former leaders of some african states accused of dictatorial and even barbaric methods of power. the problem raised in parliament's resolution concerns in particular the former president of the republic of chad, hissène habré, who is responsible for 40,000 political murders and 200,000 cases of torture. the resolution also mentions other dictatorships in libya, ethiopia and gives examples of conflicts in sierra leone, rwanda and the democratic republic of congo, where 3 million people have been killed in the six-year conflict. when analyzing the political situation in africa, one wonders why there are conflicts between the ruling elites of african descent and the masses of fellow citizens who are treated in such inhuman ways. it is important to remember that the composition, role and transformation of african elites was largely determined by colonial authorities. like most dependent societies, the elites in africa were shaped by european models and communist interference, which decided the bureaucratic, intellectual character of the elites coming to power. the colonial authorities, who were focused on exploiting labour and exporting raw materials, deliberately restricted the activities of political parties and the possibility of economic development. at the same time, the elites, who were admitted to european and american universities, adopted a style of power, spending huge budget funds not only on the army, the multiplication of administrations, trips, delegations, but also on official salaries, luxurious living, elegant houses, cars, a model of life far from the living conditions of the majority of starving africans. economic dependence is exacerbated by the domination of key industries by foreign capital, which has recently further degraded the environment. the continuing economic drain on africa perpetuates unequal economic exchange and the policy of systematic indebtedness of poor countries is being used as a substitute for development opportunities. we support the resolution which calls for the perpetrators of crimes to be brought to justice, but it would be more important to improve the general situation of the african population, enabling sustainable development, which seems difficult to achieve in the light of the above conditions.
member of the commission. mr president, we are very pleased that there has been a discussion on impunity. the commission is committed to fighting impunity by all means at its disposal, be they political or financial. at the international level, as you know, we have consistently expressed strong support for the international criminal court through both our common position and our action plan. in addition, the european union, through its member states, is the largest contributor to the icc and its budget. the court’s credibility and chances of working effectively are largely dependent on the international community’s general acceptance of it. that is why we are really working towards making the court truly universal by encouraging as many countries as possible to ratify the rome statute. i am particularly happy that the european union and the 77 acp countries agreed to include in the revised cotonou agreement a commitment to take steps to ratify and implement the statute. this is a good step forward. in july 2004, the international criminal court’s prosecutor opened investigations into crimes allegedly committed in the democratic republic of the congo and in uganda after 2002. these notifications, followed by arrest warrants in uganda, are clear indications of the contribution that the icc can and will make to the fight against impunity on the african continent. in addition, in march 2005 the un security council – after much lobbying from the eu and other players – adopted a resolution referring the situation in darfur to the icc. it is unfortunate that it was not possible to resolve the case of hissène habré in senegal, but i welcome the african union’s decision of january 2006 to set up a committee of eminent african jurists to consider the case further. the committee appears to have quite a strong mandate. of particular note is its adherence to ‘the principles of total rejection of impunity’. i hope that a solution that meets the requirements of justice is reached soon. in addition to the case of hissène habré, a pragmatic way forward must be found – as some of you have said – to bring to justice charles taylor, who is currently in exile in nigeria. in terms of funding, we are contributing to the international criminal tribunals of sierra leone and rwanda. in addition, a large project is being prepared for the democratic republic of the congo, which will seek to underpin our work in the icc. finally, states have a duty under international law to try or to extradite those charged with international crimes, such as crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide. it is primarily, therefore, a matter for the heads of state concerned to ensure that this happens in the cases of hissène habré, charles taylor and mengistu haile mariam. the importance of the role of the international criminal court comes into play when states refuse to observe their duties in this regard. that is why it is so important that the european union should continue to support the universal ratification and implementation of the rome statute.
the greatest enemy of justice is impunity. unnamed crimes, crimes that go unpunished, criminals living with impunity and often in luxury, lead to the trivialization of death and human suffering. the people of africa have suffered greatly at the hands of their rulers. it is our duty to help them. not just material, but also those that are related to higher values, like a sense of justice. modernization has made it possible for bad people to do more harm to others. modernisation should also lead to quicker and more effective prosecution of those who ruthlessly abuse their power. immunities and privileges were designed to protect against the abuse of power, not to protect those who abuse power. great moral authorities can forgive. but there is no true forgiveness without repentance. sadly, criminals who feel neither personal responsibility nor the right of others to judge their actions rarely experience such feelings as repentance. so we have to support actions that will force them to answer the questions: why did they kill, why did they rape, why did they torture? this isn't about revenge. this is about getting back in balance. it's about the balance between right and wrong. without this basic balance, the future of humanity will be in constant danger, and not just in africa.
mr president, mr president of the european commission! unfortunately, 2005 will also be remembered by europeans as the year in which the constitutional treaty was rejected in two of the european union's founding countries. it's a signal to us politicians that we're not listening to our citizens enough. the european union has not yet been united after the last enlargement with ten countries, and the future accession of turkey is already being served. 2007 could be a year of opportunity for a deeper, more united europe if the old member states open up more to the new ones, above all by opening up their labour markets. unfortunately, few countries seem to be more courageous than spain and portugal, which know from recent experience that it is hard to be in the union and at the same time be a second-class european. i propose that future enlargements of the european union be either complete or not at all. i hope that i am also expressing the wishes of the people of the netherlands and france. it is not too late to make europe more integrated by ensuring that its budget is ambitious. the year 2006 brought the energy supply problems to the attention of europeans. europe needs a common energy policy now more than ever. it will also be an opportunity to improve the prospects of farmers, especially in the new member states, by involving them in the production of biofuels. the globalization of the world is an inevitable process. europe should see this as a new challenge, an opportunity for growth. we have a duty to help developing countries, but also to deepen our european social model and to care for the most disadvantaged citizens in our member states.
president of the commission. the truth is, because of an official engagement i have with the belgian authorities, i have to leave now. i was not expecting the session to be so late, given the first part of your discussions before this item on the agenda. the commission will be present at the end of the debate. but it will allow me to answer some of the questions that have been raised here. first of all, i would like to thank the comments which, in general, were in favour of our programme - there is, of course, a substantive issue here which i will mention shortly, namely the question of the financial perspective - but, in general, i think i can say that there is an identification with the commission's objectives for 2007. in concrete terms, mr watson asked why we put the objectives of energy conservation and environmental protection in the solidarity chapter and not in the prosperity chapter. it could and should certainly be in the prosperity chapter, but we put it in the solidarity chapter precisely to highlight its greater relevance, since it is a solidarity with future generations: the fight for a clean environment and the fight for sustainable development have a direct bearing on our entire future. this is why we have put environmental issues in the solidarity chapter of the presentation. as regards emigration, mrs frassoni said that we had never spoken out on the issue of illegal emigration and the plight of many africans who often meet their deaths in the mediterranean. i'm sorry, but that's not true. there have been several clear statements by the commission on this matter, including by vice-president frattini, and the truth is that we are striving to achieve as much as possible a common approach by the member states on these matters. another issue raised by mrs frassoni was the lack of reference to transport in the context of energy policy. i am sorry, but on page 11 of the english version of the green paper it says that we propose to the member states, as possible actions, and i read: 'a major effort to improve energy efficiency in the transport sector, and in particular to rapidly improve urban public transport in europe's major cities' of course this is just a green book, it's for reference, but there's this line. we consider the transport sector to be crucial in terms of energy efficiency; i would like to see that there is no doubt about that. one of the members referred to the question of the opening up of labour markets in europe. you know the position of the european commission, which is in favour of this opening up. and it was in the wake of our report that several member states, not just those you mentioned, not just portugal and spain but also finland, and also the dutch government, announced their intention to promote the liberalization of labour markets in europe as soon as possible, thus joining the united kingdom, ireland and sweden; i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. mr swoboda raised an important question, namely how best to explain this to our citizens, how best to explain in our action what the added value of europe is. and the truth is that there are measures where that is easier than others. we have just announced that very important measure, which is the first piece of legislation adopted by this commission with the support of parliament and the council, which is the so-called 'black list' on aviation safety. here is a concrete case where citizens clearly see the advantage of action at community level. here, in these matters, we have to do extra work of explanation and argumentation. it is indeed a task for the commission, but let me say that it is a task for all of us, it is also a task for the european parliament, for members of parliament, for national parliaments, for all those who love europe and who feel that it is necessary to explain better what added value europe brings. on the question of nuclear energy, mr swoboda, our position is very clear: we respect the principle of subsidiarity. it is a difficult issue in europe, there are member states who are in favour, others who are against. what i think is right is that we should not avoid debate. you were referring to my meeting with president putin. let me tell you that president putin, despite russia's great natural wealth in terms of oil and gas, has also made the development of nuclear energy in the future a high priority for russia. so it is a subject we cannot avoid, it is a subject on the agenda and it must be discussed honestly. we, the european commission, are not taking a position on this matter in the sense of being for or against nuclear energy, what we are defending is the principle of each member state, in its energy mix, finding forms of sustainable energy in the long term, respecting the principle of subsidiarity also in this area. mr duff and others raised the question of the constitution. it is not a matter which is under discussion here today, but i would like to say that we, the european commission, remain absolutely committed to the principles and values which are enshrined in the draft constitutional treaty and are working on this matter. for the european council in june we hope to bring some ideas to the future of the european debate and i hope that these ideas will make a useful contribution. although the constitutional treaty is, as its name suggests, an intergovernmental treaty, the commission is not abdicating its responsibilities and will therefore also want to contribute to this reflection. i do not know whether it will be a contribution, as mr martin has suggested, as ambitious as vasco da gama's voyages, but it will be our contribution anyway. in any case, i was pleased to see montesquieu, machiavelli and vasco da gama quoted in the debate today, and this shows that the level of our debate in the european parliament is increasing. and now i shall make some comments in english i always speak in english when i speak about money! i got used to it during the british presidency. so, now some remarks in english about the financial perspectives. my understanding is that real progress was made yesterday between the institutions. on the basis of compromise texts presented by the commission, a third trialogue took place yesterday afternoon with the austrian presidency, the negotiating team from parliament and the commission. our understanding is that the outcome of the meeting was largely positive. on the interinstitutional agreement itself, there is almost full agreement, including on the idea of adding a new part three on sound financial management. subject to final technical verifications, texts have been agreed on important points such as the financial regulation, certification by member states and the review clause. when i say 'agreed', i mean agreed between the delegations. they are agreements ad referendum. all these points have been considered key elements in various resolutions adopted by parliament. i am pleased to see that the three institutions have been able to reach consensus on them and i am proud of the contribution that the commission has made to that agreement. as regards figures, parliament and the council have exchanged their views and evaluations based on the ceilings agreed at the december european council. let's be honest with each other. there is still a big difference between the figures proposed by parliament and those proposed by the council. i want to be clear about this. the commission supports the most ambitious possible agreement. the question, frankly, is: how far is the council prepared to go? i therefore appeal for a compromise to be reached as soon as possible. if there is no compromise, it will be negative for all of us in the european union, in particular for the new member states and those member states and regions which really need our solidarity for their development. the solution could be to find the appropriate mix between three elements: flexibility, ways of mobilizing the funds on the various flexibility mechanisms and, finally, the overall ceilings. there is light at the end of the tunnel! a final trialogue is scheduled for 4 or 5 april 2006 in strasbourg. it is my firm conviction that an agreement can be reached at that meeting. in the meantime, the commission will continue to play its active role in seeking the most ambitious position, but in the end, we need ambition with an agreement. therefore, i approve of ambition but with realism and responsibility, trying to bring all the institutions on board. i know that the austrian presidency is actively seeking an agreement with all the member states. let me tell you that in the various meetings i have had with the heads of government - and this week i have had several - i have urged them, both publicly and privately, to accept an increase in overall expenditure. i quoted in particular the need for education and culture: the erasmus and citizenship programmes. there, at least, we should make a real effort and some progress is possible. let us all work hard towards reaching a good agreement and then, if we have good intentions, a good strategy and good policies. let us hope that we also have good instruments in terms of the financial perspectives. (applause from the left)
mr. chairman, please! it is very important that parliament has a chance to debate the strategy. 2007 will be a pivotal year for the future of the european union. in order for a strategic debate to take place in parliament, a choice of decisions must be presented. the president of the european commission did not present the choices facing the commission. and politics is the art of choice. first, the problem of the constitution. does the european commission believe that the constitution will be adopted in 2007 and has the means and methods to do so or not? secondly, the important issue of employment. is the answer to unemployment, in terms of employment, economic growth, economic freedom, the free movement of labour? or not, or back to colbert, economic protectionism sometimes called economic patriotism? thirdly, the problem of the lisbon strategy - a key problem for the future of the european union. it is reduced to rhetoric, since on the one hand we say that the future of the european union depends on the lisbon strategy, and on the other hand when it is necessary to define a budget, when it is necessary to write it off, it is written off from science, it is written off from scientific research, it is written off from the educational system. the european union can make europe an innovative, global partner, but that requires a strategy. i think that today's debate is a testament to the importance of parliament. it would be nice if parliament took all the other european institutions seriously.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, we bring this document and annual policy strategy to the european parliament in order to receive your input and ideas on how to improve it. we therefore listen to you very carefully. we have already heard a number of points that would improve our paper. the same goes for the discussion i had with the conference of committee chairmen. this will give us a lot, since we are able to have a truly political discussion about our priorities, the balance we want to achieve and the messages we want to send. i think we are coming back to the fact that we want to achieve results and we want to win trust. these are basic and core conditions for us in order to build a stronger european union. whatever title we choose, there will be linguistic or other problems with it. i am not sure we will ever be able to find something on which everybody agrees. however, our aim is that, by showing good results and by delivering on our commitments, we will also be able to build trust. if we engage in a democratic discussion and debate with citizens, it will also be easier to explain why we need constitutional reform in order to achieve those good results. that is the way we have to go: we have to engage with citizens in a democratic manner. i am very happy to have the opportunity to tell all the people in the uk that church organ pipes are not covered by the directive on electronic and electrical waste. you can fill all your churches with as many leaded pipes as you want. the commission will not interfere with that. just make sure that now and then the poor people in the uk hear the truth, as they rarely receive correct information. you can rest absolutely assured that the directive does not cover church organ pipes. i also hope we can open up the council meetings. the finnish presidency is now preparing to make that a reality, and this will definitely help to end the blame game. if citizens can follow what their ministers do in the council – the kinds of positions they take and statements they make, if they are there at all – it will help to end the blame game. acting in partnership, we will all have to explain what the european union does and what it is. perhaps we can make some progress. i hope that during the austrian presidency we have made progress, because this is also a concern of yours. definitely under the finnish presidency, where we can take it a step further, we should make progress. thank you for all your wise comments on the annual policy strategy. i will definitely take all your comments back with me and pass them on to all the other commissioners. (applause)
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council by mr giles chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-0007/2006 - b6-0009/2006).
mr president, energy, as we have recently witnessed, is also sometimes treated as a weapon for exerting political influence by states which enjoy a quasi-monopolistic position, as in the russia/ukraine case. that is what really triggered this sudden interest in energy policy. the problem should therefore be considered as a foreign and security policy issue and so, besides commissioner piebalgs, i would willingly address mr solana and mrs ferrero-waldner. it is essential for the eu to develop a true external security policy dimension in relation to gas and oil deliveries, which is distinct from energy policies sensu stricto. we should not mix them up. the question is, what added value can the eu offer in the event of politically motivated cuts in energy supplies? proposals, as included in the green paper, go in the right direction, although they are still too modest. solidarity, as one of the main principles of european integration, creates an obligation to assist all those member states which are in difficulty. we must extend this solidarity principle to problems related to energy supply shortages caused by political action. what is needed is cooperation and solidarity, not competition among member states in securing external energy supplies, as happens today. the forthcoming spring council should, above all, consider three issues of utmost importance: first, mutual assistance among member states in case of energy supply cuts; second, mutual consultation mechanisms among member states for major gas and delivery contracts; and third, the inclusion of an energy security clause in all eu treaties with third countries, which are either a source of energy or a transit country. an energy security clause should impose an obligation to follow a certain code of conduct and to promise not to use energy delivery as an instrument of political pressure. the time has come to move beyond declarations.
mr. chairman, please! the security of supply in the european union is diminishing with each month of inevitable increase in dependence on imported energy. the only thing we can avoid in this field is unstable and unpredictable partners. their role in the european energy market should be kept within safe limits. to the surprise of many european countries, though not all, russia has recently emerged as this unstable partner. its supply has been limited recently by climatic conditions in siberia, by the lack of security for pipelines in the south of the country, and by the government's unbridled use of energy as a tool of political pressure against its western-oriented neighbors. for this reason, energy cooperation cannot be closed to countries outside the union. it is outside the union that we have energy problems. we also have some of our remedies outside the union, for example in norwegian fields. therefore, not only energy policy but also trans-european networks should extend beyond the borders of the union. the enhanced neighbourhood policy should therefore be enriched by an energy aspect. the polish proposal for an energy pact based on solidarity and boldly going beyond the borders of the union should therefore be discussed more seriously at the forthcoming summit. energy security is primarily a matter of foreign and defence policy. to pretend that the key to providing it is new energy sources or restrictions imposed on industry in the form of, say, climate agreements, is naive. renewable energy will continue to be an expensive addition to our energy supply for a long time to come, and the excessive restrictions on european industry, often backed by questionable scientific evidence, are a factor limiting our competitiveness.
mr. chairman, please! poland is particularly vulnerable to the policy of using natural gas and oil supplies to our country as a tool of political influence by the main supplier of these energy resources, namely russia. hence the polish government's initiative, presented in the forums of the european institutions, to introduce a solution to energy security that can be described as 'one for all, all for one', i.e. the application of the principle of solidarity. unfortunately, it has been met with a rather lukewarm response from the largest european countries, as most of them try to push for solutions that are beneficial to them, even at the expense of other members of the european union. the construction of the northern gas pipeline across the baltic sea, which is the result of an agreement between russia and germany, is a perfect example of such a policy. while this will significantly improve germany's energy security in the future, it is unfortunately detrimental to the economic interests and energy security of countries such as poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia and non-eu countries such as ukraine. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources.
mr. chairman, please! after the political speeches, a few technical remarks. energy crises are always caused by the lack of supply of two energy sources to europe: gas and oil. we're not self-sufficient here. we have two choices. firstly, more of europe's own energy sources. second, diversification of supply. more energy ownership means research and applications, higher energy efficiency and renewable energy, as the most important. we forget that europe has huge deposits of hard coal and brown coal. i don't understand why clean coal technologies aren't directly in our parliamentary resolution? others have had research and commercial programs like this for years. nuclear energy is also a necessity, especially with the threat of a greenhouse effect. more money for research and technology should be the obvious demand of the european parliament. secondly, diversification of supply. we have not yet tapped into the enormous potential of one of our neighbors, ukraine. last night, not far from here in solvay, the ukrainian government presented these possibilities - its own gas reserves, the largest natural gas reservoirs in europe, transit of oil and gas from turkmenistan and the caspian sea independently of gazprom. all of this can be the subject of eu-ukraine cooperation. it requires leaving the ukrainian pipelines in ukrainian hands. this requires investment, construction and repair of pipelines, which we, the european union, should be helping ukraine to do. we have the european development bank, the trans-european networks, the enhanced neighbourhood policy. we can become more united and secure, and we have the basis for a common energy policy for the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the union's energy policy has two dimensions: external, geopolitical and internal, as energy security also means the rationalisation of energy use. europe must now manage its energy potential and improve its use by eliminating thermodynamic imperfections: for example, by thermomodernising buildings, but not only; by modernising and expanding the use of distributed heat and power sources, especially in the new countries of the european union, where there is a huge potential for cogeneration and wasted energy; by making prudent use of renewable sources, especially biomass, the use of which for electricity generation, however, i consider to be somewhat ambiguous. the enlarged european union, by creating cross-border networks, can exploit the fact that there are significant time shifts from its eastern to its western borders, leading to a reduction in peak loads on the electricity grid and, in the north-south direction, to a better use of seasonal temperature differences. the energy-intensive nature of national income needs to be further reduced, and this must also be reflected in customs policy. therefore, it is not understandable to maintain a 6% duty on highly energy-intensive primary aluminium. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the union's energy supply is not affected by the price pressure.
mr. chairman, please! for the third time in this parliament's term of office, i am speaking out against discrimination against catholics in the plenary, this time because of the blocking of the internet of radio maria, which for us, members of parliament with a christian worldview, is the only reliable source of information. our business, like the electorate, is connected to these media, which is why the blocking of the station's reception has cut off our contact with our voters for two months. all the requests and warnings to the information and telecommunications services have been ineffective, and i am therefore obliged to speak in parliament, invoking article 10 of the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the situation seems to be a clear contradiction of the principles contained therein. we hope that the exercise of freedom in the european parliament will be guaranteed to us as it is to other minorities.
mr. chairman, please! we welcome the decisive progress made in the negotiations with the council on the new financial perspective. the outcome of yesterday's trialogue is only the first step towards an agreement and it is a step taken in the middle of the austrian presidency. it took three months for the council to start talking. in nine months' time, the interinstitutional agreement will expire, a new programming period will begin, the union will be enlarged by two new countries, and we still do not know what budget we will have and what kind of union we are aiming for. we have no time for months of negotiations, especially since the citizens of the union do not understand why it is so difficult to reach an agreement when we all share the same goal of equitable development for the benefit of all the countries of the union. in the meantime, time is running out, delays in the implementation of new programmes mean unrealised investments, missed opportunities, and we, the citizens of a united europe, will have to answer for them. we can't afford to waste another week. a compromise must be reached as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, please! the european union has brought its authority to bear on behalf of unicredito italiano in a dispute with the polish government. the union does not take into account the classic roman principle pacta sunt servanda - contracts are honoured, and unicredito did not honour contracts. the union does not take into account that the bank's actions will lead to a monopoly of services on the polish market. in sum, the european union officials look after the interest and the benefit of unicredito italiano. is this the attitude of the union's officials to prove that the thesis of the protection of consumers, businesses and competitiveness by the european institutions is a phrase? and really, all that matters is the benefit of big capital. we polish members do not agree to such a dictate.
mr. chairman, please! article 191 of the treaty establishing the european community provides that political parties at european level are an important factor for integration within the union. they contribute to shaping european consciousness and to expressing the political will of the citizens of the union. this is of great importance today, given the need to reflect more deeply on the future of europe, which requires a broad dialogue with citizens. political parties at european level that promote deeper integration and defend the constitutional treaty should play a key role in this. the party of european socialists has both a long record and considerable experience in this field. there is no doubt that european political parties should play an important role in european referendums, in elections to the european parliament and in the election of the president of the commission. in addition, the outcome of the european elections should influence the choice of the candidate for president of the commission. regulation on political parties at european level is necessary to achieve those objectives. political parties need a statute that defines their rights and obligations and gives them the possibility of acquiring legal personality. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate mr jo leinen on his excellent report and his remarkable competence.
mr. chairman, please! political parties go back to the roots of the industrial revolution, the formation of nation states, and the post-world war ii period. globalisation, which brings new civilizational challenges, and the democratisation of the european union's political system require european political parties to operate in the european public sphere. european political parties must become real institutions of representative democracy, mediating between citizens and the decision-making centres in the union. to this end, a european status for political parties is necessary, which would define their rights and obligations, and would enable them to acquire legal personality based on community law and to function effectively in the member states. we are facing today in the european union the crisis of european liberal democracy. the constitutional crisis in the union is accompanied by racism and intolerance, prejudice against immigrants, and the closing of the nation states. the union must support european political foundations and promote and strengthen european political organisations and youth movements. the european union must respond to the current crisis with a genuine european policy, as proposed in the report by jo leinen to the european parliament.
member of the commission. madam president, the recent elections in belarus and the events on sunday in the capital, minsk, have clearly confirmed that president lukashenko is determined to maintain his rule through whatever means. this is no surprise as it is a repressive regime which shows no tolerance for political competition. the bad news is that the president and the regime still enjoy some support among a significant proportion of the population. the peaceful demonstrations, however, have given evidence of the consolidation of pluralistic forces in the country; this is a positive development. the initial report from the osce and the office of democratic institutions and human rights concludes that the elections of 19 march clearly fail to meet osce criteria for democratic elections as a result of the disregard for the basic rights of freedom of assembly, association and expression; and owing to the arbitrary use of state power and widespread detentions, and problems with early vote-counting and tabulation processes. in the light of these serious problems, the commission considers that the presidential elections in belarus were fundamentally flawed. this raises serious doubts as to whether the results of the elections truly reflect the will of the people of belarus. the commission also deplores the non-admittance of the announced and registered osce and eu observers, including members of the european parliament. we deplore the instigation of criminal cases against opposition members and the arrests of opposition activists and peaceful demonstrators. we urge the belarusian authorities to release them immediately. the commission is now considering the issue of sanctions. it is important that we precisely target sanction measures against those individuals who are responsible for the fraudulent elections. we have to avoid hitting the population and we should make this clearly understood. the commission will be fully involved in preparing such measures. looking now to the future, we must continue our efforts to support democratisation and civil society. we are finalising a proposal for our assistance strategy for 2007 onwards. in line with the council conclusions, we will continue supporting democratisation through our different ways and means. we will also continue to support the needs of the population by targeting social and economic developments in belarusian society. this can be done through our future european neighbourhood policy instruments. this type of support will allow us to combine contacts with middle-ranking officials to reduce the self-isolation of belarus; cooperation with ngos; and support directly benefiting the population, for example in the health sector, the environment or in the chernobyl-affected area. the current tv and radio programmes being broadcast to belarus and supported by the european community are an important contribution to democratisation and to the visibility of the european union in belarus. it is important that we get across to the belarusian population both the considerable financial effort made by the eu and the potential benefits of the european neighbourhood policy. through our assistance we will be keen to foster people-to-people contacts and we will seek maximum flexibility within the limits of our financial rules.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the debate we're having today is an important debate. the decision to put this item on the agenda speaks very well of the european parliament, and the statement made by the commissioner today speaks very well of the european commission. for perhaps the first time in a long time this parliament and this commission are speaking with one voice - very well. the belarusian side expects us to show political solidarity, as aleksander milinkiewicz, who visited this parliament a few weeks ago, met mrs ferrero waldner and javier solana and was recognised by the political leaders of the european union as a democratic partner, has called for. this political solidarity is not just political declarations, but also the need for a thorough review of the policies of our union. this deep revision should be based on the principle of isolating the authorities, but not isolating the society; supporting the society, but not supporting the belarusian authorities. the house has long called for the union to act intelligently, to impose sanctions only on those who are responsible for violating the regime's civil rights and democratic freedoms. we are calling for the list of persons subject to an entry ban to be extended considerably - we, as the european parliament's delegation to belarus, have submitted a proposal to the commissioner and javier solana. it would also be very important to open the european union's borders to those belarusians who have no place in their own country, and it would be very important for belarusian youth, who are currently being expelled from universities for participating in peaceful demonstrations, to be covered by a special scholarship programme in the countries of the european union. we owe it to our partners in belarus.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. there is something very optimistic about the fact that the various political clubs in this chamber are speaking out so unanimously today. this is a good sign of what european solidarity really is, and it is a good sign that all of us in this room, or at least the overwhelming majority, attach equal importance to the basic standards of human and civil rights that are so brutally violated in belarus today. i would like to join all those voices in this room who are very clear that the lukashenko regime and all that is happening in belarus would not have been possible without the feeling of the lukashenko dictator that he has the support of powerful donors and powerful friends in the kremlin. we must realize in this room that the key to resolving the situation in belarus lies not only in belarus, but also in the conviction of the russian rulers that the situation we are facing just beyond the eastern border of the european union is by no means acceptable to us, the citizens of the european union. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to raise one point that has escaped this discussion, because today we are of course talking about the electoral crimes that have taken place in recent days in belarus, but we must remember that the problem of human rights violations in belarus is ongoing and is not only related to the electoral process. i would like to call for the european union to be more active not only in the field of human rights as electoral rights, but also in promoting free media and information in belarus, because the lukashenka regime is also maintained because it simply lies to its citizens.
i would also like to address the need for concrete action. there has been talk about expanding the list of people who would not be allowed to enter the european union, but i would like to say that this expansion must be drastic, it cannot be six or seven items, it must be a list that includes hundreds of people and it must be a list that is publicly known in belarus as well. it should be a list that includes not only the member states of the european union but also the countries that aspire to the european union. the point is that those who are harassing the protesters in the square today cannot go on holiday to turkey or romania or bulgaria. and then there's the possibility of freezing the accounts that these people have so they can't make purchases, even with us - sorry to trivialize it a bit, but i'd like to be very specific. and finally, the third issue, which is also frequently discussed in the european parliament and which has also been expressed in european parliament resolutions, is the change in the way the european union operates in terms of measures to support civil society in belarus and other countries, and to support democracy. it is a shame that so little money is left for these activities, not that they are granted, because there are many funds granted, but they are used because of various long procedures. so the next appeal i would like to make here is to set up a foundation like the westminster foundation or the german foundations or the foundations that are in the netherlands to make this transfer process incredibly smooth. finally, the last thing, and that is that i think it would be worth considering to show the belarusians that as long as mr lukashenko is closing belarus, he is not allowing them to go to study, he is not even allowing them to go for treatment. it imposes a border tax on all those who leave, but the european union could say that those who can get a european visa will get it free of charge. that would be a great approach, a great gesture.
we've known for years what a dictator is up to over our eastern border. we're having trouble figuring out what we're supposed to do. the political helplessness has passed with the initiative taken by this parliament, especially in this term. it will certainly be a historic achievement for this house. but today we have to fight the helplessness of europe, the helplessness of the free world in terms of concrete action. in the short term, we need to substantially extend the list of undesirable persons in the union. in the medium term, we need to find effective ways to support the forces of the citizens - the first task is, of course, the media. breaking the information blockade is essential to rebuilding confidence in a different path of development for belarus. we must develop actions in this area, the first steps have already been taken, but we should treat them only as first steps and - the most important thing - in the long term belarusians must gain a sense that they have somewhere to go. we must open the way to the west, a serious european perspective. without it, belarusians will never believe that they can free themselves from the tutelage of one dictator or another, without this perspective lukashenko will pass, but his place will be taken by another executor of russian policy of rebuilding the zone of influence in the region. there is no third option in this part of europe, as a pole i know all too well.
madam president! i was a member of the delegation of our parliament which did not go to belarus after all. i took that test, got stopped at the border, and saw the whole absurdity. absurd, when the train stands for an hour on the polish-belarusian border, when people look with horror, they cross this border with horror. watching the officials checking passports reminded me of the communist era, as if i were rewatching a movie from that time. i saw some small-time smugglers. the border on bug is an absurd berlin wall and we rightly say here to isolate the authorities, but i appeal that we do not isolate society, that we do not isolate the youth, students, journalists, scientists, people from ngos, people who are discriminated against in belarus, so that we create bridges. bridges that will make belarusians feel european, will make them understand that values like freedom and democracy are theirs too, should be theirs too.
it is good that the council, the commission and the european parliament are speaking with one voice on the situation in belarus, and for the first time with such determination. the situation in belarus is so serious that the council and the commission, and not just meps, must condemn russia's acceptance and support for the undemocratic regime of alexander lukashenko. you can't be cold to russia at all costs. we must also be frank about this: the community institutions have waited too long and reacted too lazyly to the events in belarus. these actions were slow and ineffective not only because of the reluctance to annoy president putin or the limited possibilities and resources, but also, as mr onyszkiewicz mentioned, because of the protracted procedures and the inadequate allocation of the funds spent. it is the commission's task to spend the funds allocated to belarus appropriately and the commission must do so more efficiently and effectively. as meps, we will regularly ask the commission how it is doing its job and whether the procedures for allocating and spending aid have been improved. we will also insist that the council and the commission take a more firm stand in the future against russia's support for the last undemocratic clique in europe.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a debate which has shown that demography is one of the most serious issues in europe and which has clarified the issue from many angles. i think she's very clearly confirmed the basic approach that this is a total change, that a holistic approach is needed or a mainstream approach as it's been expressed. at the same time, she considered different aspects of the overall problem in different ways. for example, it was mentioned that the green paper does not give sufficient proportion to two problems, the problems in health and the problems in the international context. you may have noticed from my report that the international context is to be part of the regular reports, so in this respect a certain preliminary reaction already exists. the question of health is one of the most fundamental, and i think this debate is inspiring to strengthen this aspect in the next moments of the development of our thinking. because this question brings with it not only technical and organizational problems, but it brings with it a whole host of ethical problems, because an aging population is creating more and more situations where people, because of their individual fate and individual health, are living in some way in an extreme situation, and the corresponding ethical response is very difficult and will also require very deep reflection. i think it was also clear that the issue that the focus was on, and i think it was right, was the issue of children, the very low birth rate, and the consideration of how to change that situation, or at least influence it. it was also clear from the debate that this is a european issue in general, because although ireland, for example, has the highest live birth rate per woman of childbearing age at the moment, it has experienced virtually the sharpest decline of any other country in the last 20 years and the current level is already below the level of demographic stability. of course, there are other states that are in situations that are far more significant and that would be in a very difficult situation in a few generations. it's also clear that we have to take very seriously the fact that not every society is friendly to people. there's an old roman saying, "inter arma silent musae", which is that when society is in some kind of stress and extreme situation, creativity is impaired. i think having children is a deep need and a deep desire. in a way, raising and caring for children is also an activity that involves a tremendous amount of creativity, and it is also clear that european citizens need more certainty for their decisions in a world that is so extremely changing. the debate also raised the issue of gender balance, and i think it was right. let me quote just one figure from a spanish study: in spain men spend 52 million hours a year caring for dependents, i.e. children or elderly family members. women spend 200 million hours a year on this care. so this burden, which is shared, is very unevenly distributed, four times to the detriment of women. i think those are questions we need to ask ourselves. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your debate, thank you for this report, which is very concentrated and shows that within the framework of european political thinking, european social thinking, there is a considerable tendency towards convergence of our approaches, and this, in my opinion, gives hope for a coordinated approach capable of going beyond that often cursed period from election to election, because five years is very little time for a number of questions.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by neil parish, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the promotion of non-food crops (2004/2259 (ini)) (a6-0040/2006).
mr. chairman, please! support for non-food crops is a great, necessary and timely topic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the production of sugar. the production of biomass, and especially biofuels, will not only improve the environment, not only increase employment in rural areas, but also save human dignity by raising the income of entire families. instead of worrying about the price of fattening, the farmer will be happy about the price of fuel. the farmers have protected us from hunger, but now they are saving us from the energy crisis and breathing new life into the common agricultural policy.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you once again for the valuable contribution that the european parliament has been making to this very important area. i am very impressed with the overwhelming support that i have seen here in parliament today. we have a lot of work ahead of us. the year 2006 will be particularly challenging, with a number of key issues to be addressed: firstly, the biofuel targets in the context of the review of the biofuels directive; secondly, the possibility of increasing the blend of biofuels into conventional fuels – work is already under way to review the fuel quality directive; and thirdly, the energy crop regime, which we will also review this year. all the different actions are set out in the biomass action plan and the biofuels strategy, which must be put on track this year. there is plenty to do and we are very dedicated. this is why we have set up a new unit in my department with special responsibility for biomass and biofuels. we will also continue to find ways of encouraging the enormous economic, social and environmental potential of non-food applications, particularly those highlighted in the report. i firmly believe that the whole economy stands to gain from the contribution which renewable bio-resources can make to ensuring a sustainable future for europe. (applause)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today at 11 a.m. written declaration (rule 142)
mr. chairman, please! for several years now, the european parliament has been investigating the lloyds case relating to the first non-life direct insurance directive and the way in which that directive was or was not properly applied, particularly during the last twenty years before the law was amended accordingly following the opening of infringement proceedings against the united kingdom in 2001. the purpose of our last exchange of letters with the president on the lloyds case was to close the case and to assure the petitioners of the support of the european parliament for their cause. i was wondering if the chairman had anything to add to help us close this case.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the unfair tax rules currently in force in poland in relation to poles working abroad. the problem concerns mainly the several hundred thousand people working in the uk and the polish-british double taxation agreement signed in 1976. the method of calculating the tax applied in poland in the case of income received by poles in the united kingdom is unfavourable and may actually lead to double taxation. both the british and, above all, the polish governments should bring about a renegotiation of this agreement as soon as possible in the interests of the citizens of the european union. poles who decide to leave their homeland to work in other countries contribute to the wealth of the entire european union, often doing the most difficult jobs for low pay and living in difficult conditions. these people are often exploited by dishonest intermediary agencies. the polish minister of finance should completely abandon the collection of taxes on income that poles working abroad bring into the country. the european parliament must defend these people, uphold justice and the right of eu citizens to live in dignity.
mr. chairman, please! recently, some newspapers in western europe have begun to refer to the polish government and its political establishment as nationalist. this type of content is scandalous and offends millions of poles. it is this government and the factions supporting it that refer to the beautiful history of, say, world war ii, when tens of thousands of poles risked their lives to hide jews and other nationalities, thousands of them paying with their lives. this so-called political correctness that is violating freedom of speech in the european union defines all those who talk about patriotism, national tradition, or the importance of christianity for europe as chauvinism, nationalism, or perhaps soon fascism. any behaviour contrary to the nature and traditional values of christian europe, as well as to the tolerance of offending the feelings of catholics and other confessions, is normal for these circles. regardless of what the western european press proclaims, poland will remain true to its democratic traditions and values.
mr. chairman, please! on 16 and 23 march this year, i sent to the president, as the president of the bureau of the ind/dem group, a letter on the so-called reconstruction of the independence and democracy group, which parliament's authorities were informed of by the group's leadership during the last plenary session. in the opinion of the polish delegation in the ind/dem group, the procedure of excluding from the group two national delegations: the polish and the italian delegations was illegal. i would like to ask the president when we can expect a reply to these letters.
mr. chairman, please! last night was the first anniversary of the death of a great man, a great european, pope john paul ii. thank you for this opportunity to pay tribute to a man who was and will remain a symbol of interfaith dialogue: between christianity and judaism, christianity and islam. john paul ii is also a symbol of tolerance and respect for all people, regardless of race, nationality, gender, social class and wealth. it was the pope from central and eastern europe who repeatedly stressed the unity of europe, even during the berlin wall and the "iron curtain". in santiago de compostela, spain, some 20 years ago, he spoke of europe as a unity in diversity. these words are, i hope, still relevant today.
a couple of days ago, the curious elections in belarus ended, and of course, alexander lukashenko won. it was a rigged election using force, the belarusian kgb, militia and military. mr president, what is the european union, what is parliament doing in this situation? well, many observers, journalists, the polish deputy to the sejm were arrested. some of them are still in prison. we're dealing with elections in liberia, for example, and we're dealing with elections in exotic countries, and we haven't even sent an effective delegation of observers to belarus. the european parliament and the european union must take a very firm and decisive stand on belarus so that we can finally overthrow the last bloody dictatorship in europe.
in poland, dissatisfaction with the european union's agricultural policy is growing. the sentiments of polish farmers are reflected in the slogan used in the protests: "the union is the bankruptcy of the polish countryside". the farmers are demanding, among other things, the renegotiation of the accession agreement, the opening of a safeguard procedure on the market for soft fruit and vegetables and apples, the suspension of the liberalisation of the sugar market and the activation of a milk restructuring quota of 416 000 tonnes. poland has received the limit of 9,3 million tonnes of milk and needs about 12,5 million tonnes. this has already resulted in farmers being penalised for overproduction and will result in the need to import milk and milk products into poland from 2010. so poland is gradually losing food security. europe is also losing this security. so the question is, where are we headed?
mr. chairman, please! looking at the dispute over european energy policy between the council and the european parliament, the question arises: is the union an institution to be painted, or to act on the surface, or to be a theatre of fiction? because that's what this dispute is really about. we must draw lessons from the events that have taken place this year in relations between ukraine and russia, russia and georgia, and in the near future may take place in relations between belarus and russia. the common european energy policy, while retaining the sovereignty of the individual member states, must be a new quality. the old methods were good for the old days - when there were 10, 12 or 15 member states. but now that the union has been enlarged, the old mechanisms are no longer enough, as the old polish proverb says: each man for himself, that is, each man for himself. we face new challenges, such as diversifying our supply chain. it's not a political problem, it's a security problem and an economic problem. poland wants to diversify its supply so it doesn't depend on russia. spain, also under the banner of diversification, wants to take more from russia so as not to become dependent on its existing suppliers. today the european union has the opportunity to coordinate these activities in a real, not a virtual, way. we must, as europe, read the signs of the times and respond to new challenges. the debate on the european coordinator and the european priority projects is really a conflict of vision, whether european energy policy is to be a reality or just a paper document. if the latter, if it is to be the simple sum of national policies, let us be clear, let us not pretend that the union has a common and new policy. and then we'll never be surprised again.
on behalf of the uen group. 'i have taken the floor today with great pleasure because we are talking about two documents prepared by this parliament, by members of this parliament, by a distinguished member of the committee on petitions, of which i am chairman, mr hammerstein mintz, and we are also discussing a report prepared by mr michael cashman, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, vice-chairman of the committee on petitions and a distinguished member of the committee. one starting point for this discussion is the report by the european ombudsman, professor diamandouros, on transparency in the council's work. professor diamandouros, our ombudsman for the union, is also closely associated with our commission in his work. i am particularly pleased, speaking on behalf of the union for a europe of nations and as chairman of the committee on petitions, to be able to speak about these three documents, which have been prepared very well, and i congratulate the authors of these documents, mr hammerstein mintz and mr michael cashman, on their excellent work. we're talking about openness today. sometimes there are voices, although they have not been in this discussion, that not everything has to be open, that there are negotiations, talks, preparations. yes, we agree with that. these negotiations, these talks, these preparations, these are all just a little back-and-forth. what ministers talk about in their offices, what they talk about before the council, we don't demand such openness that we can eavesdrop on what they discuss with their colleagues. but then, when the council starts to deliberate, we want to know what it's deliberating about and we want to know who's representing what point of view. there are at least three reasons why we demand this transparency. the first reason is that we simply have a right to the truth, and so we want to know what the truth is. second, we have the right to control. we have a right to control as members of the european parliament, as the european parliament, we have a right to control also as members, as citizens of the european union. our colleagues who are members of the national parliaments, whose ministers are the ones who have the vote, also have a right to know. so both european and national opinion has a right to know what is happening in the council. there is also a matter which is particularly close to the committee on petitions, namely bringing the european institutions closer to the citizen. if we say that there is a crisis of confidence in the european institutions, it is the openness of the proceedings that should break this crisis of confidence in the institutions. in short, we want confidence in europe, and i am pleased to say that this is the confidence that the committee on petitions and its two distinguished members, who have drawn up these two reports, are working towards.
i welcome the fact that the eu institutions are becoming more open and transparent, but we should remember that ensuring access to documents and the openness of council meetings is not a favour that the eu institutions can, but do not have to, give to the citizens of europe. it is rather a legal and moral obligation, corresponding to the basic conditions of good governance, because it will gradually break the alienation of europeans from the eu institutions, the growing euroscepticism, and the jokes that we are dealing here mainly with the symbolic banana curve. if the european union exports and wants to export its basic democratic values abroad, namely the defence of human rights and the values of good governance, it must set the best example of this. however, from the point of view of the new post-communist member states, but also of the countries aspiring to democracy and undergoing a systemic transformation, i have to say that, unfortunately, the eu institutions are still not the best example to follow because of their lack of transparency. new rules are therefore certainly needed to clarify the responsibilities of the union institutions and to define in a clear and precise manner the conditions under which access to documents and to transcripts of council meetings may be refused. however, in practice, the problem of access to most information is very big. to access a document, you first need to know that it exists. another important effect of ensuring the greatest possible openness to the meetings of the eu institutions is to reduce corruption, conflicts of interest, any kind of ambiguity or allegations of lack of objectivity in decision-making. how many times have we heard about the allegations of bias in the decision-making of the eu institutions, of being guided by unclear premises...? (the president read out the minutes)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are debating today mr papastamkos' report on the assessment of the doha round following the 2005 ministerial conference of the world trade organisation (wto) in hong kong. the preparations for this conference and the actions taken by the commission and the council during this period have already caused great concern in the european parliament, especially as regards the future of eu agriculture. i would like to draw your attention to two facts from this period. first, at a meeting of the union's foreign ministers on 18 october, commissioner mandelson said that the european union must make concessions to other countries in the wto negotiations because the european union gains more from exporting industrial goods and services than it loses from less protection for agriculture. this statement suggested that perhaps the interests of eu agriculture were being sacrificed in exchange for vague gains in other areas. secondly, the commission and the council in december 2005, before the adoption of the relevant reports by the european parliament, hastily announced a sugar market reform which is unlikely to help the poorest countries exporting sugar to the union market, but rather will hit the union farmers growing sugar beet very hard, especially in the new member states. these two facts show how the commission and the council, before the hong kong session, wanted to show the whole world that they were prepared to make concessions in the negotiations, especially on agricultural matters. it has been found that other wto members do not show such a far-reaching willingness to make concessions, and that the european union is blamed for the lack of progress in the negotiations. it therefore seems that during the further negotiations to be held in 2006, the following provisions will have to be observed by the eu institutions in agricultural matters: concessions in the wto negotiations must not undermine either the food self-sufficiency of the union or the european model of agriculture or its multifunctional character. the offer of concessions in agricultural matters should be conditional and should be withdrawn if no satisfactory offers are received from other wto partners during the further negotiations. thirdly, in the face of far-reaching reductions in agricultural duties, only products that are not linked to economic, environmental and social dumping practices should have free access to the union market, and agricultural products that are produced under conditions that violate human rights and international environmental and animal protection agreements should be subject to additional financial burdens or special safeguard clauses. as the cost to european farmers of ensuring animal welfare standards is estimated at around eur 10 billion, it is appropriate to require that animal products from outside the european union meet similar standards.
mr. chairman, please! if we were to look for a keyword for european employment policy, it would be 'flexibility'. this flexible working law, both in terms of workplace and working hours, activates women who have to face the biggest challenge in their professional careers, which is motherhood. it's this flexibility that makes it easier to bring in, to hire the youngest and the oldest labor market participants, which is what we have so many problems with today. not everyone in europe agrees with this flexibility, we see it on the streets of paris. so the only thing we can do at european level is to reduce harmonisation in this area. less harmonisation to achieve flexibility in employment policy in some countries, in some areas of the european union. if we were to look for such a keyword in economic policy, it would be "competition" and also "tax competition". contrary to the report, it does not weaken the financing of public tasks, on the contrary, countries that have recently led to radical tax reforms, in particular in the form of reducing corporate taxes, have recorded increased revenues to the state budget. tax competition between countries such as ireland and slovakia is therefore a factor that strengthens the competitiveness of europe as a whole, strengthening europe's competitiveness on a global scale. so tax competition is not a threat to europe, but a huge opportunity. i'm afraid it's one of the few serious chances, if not the only chance.
mr. chairman, please! in taking part in this debate, i would like to point out that some of the recommendations to member states contained in the reports will not have a positive impact on growth and employment in the european union. i'll just name a few. first, to counteract tax competition and to suggest a harmonisation of corporate tax arrangements in a situation where lowering income tax rates clearly has an impact on the acceleration of economic growth. secondly, to counteract relocation, which is an objective economic process aiming to reduce production costs and thus improve the competitiveness of enterprises in the global economy. thirdly, to introduce further regulations on economic and social processes where they should be clearly limited. fourthly, despite the positive experience of countries such as the united kingdom and ireland in opening up their labour markets, the labour markets of the largest eu countries are still closed to workers from the new member states. for these reasons, among others, the european union is developing much more slowly than the united states, and the old eu countries are developing more slowly than the new member states.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank the rapporteur for her good work. however, the report does not seem to have sufficiently addressed the most difficult area, which consumes the most eu funds, requires protectionism and is economically untapped, i.e. agriculture in the broad sense. the biggest payoffs go to the powerful, while small farms collapse, the amount of uncultivated land increases, the number of people without work and hope. the sector's huge potential is untapped, but with good policies it can support the development of the whole economy. the programme of measures to develop industrial crops is not ambitious, and the research and implementation programme does not guarantee rapid progress. we are lagging behind the advanced economies in this respect. the issue requires a broad discussion and rapid and effective action in 2006.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate is about the future of the european union. european economies are growing slowly, we have high unemployment, public finances are in crisis. this situation has been going on for years and threatens to erode europe's leading role in the world. deep structural reforms and a change in economic policy are needed. the integrated economic policy guidelines presented by the commission provide a good indication of the necessary lines of action. flexible labour markets, a business-friendly environment, support for education, training, research, but the commission has been repeating these demands for years, with little effect. the reasons for the weakness of european economies and the measures needed to ensure growth and jobs are well known. however, fear of losing popularity and short-sighted political calculations, and sometimes simple ignorance, are holding politicians in member states back from taking the necessary action. as a result, we are facing a crisis of political leadership in europe. today's debate should be directed primarily to the governments of the member states and their political backgrounds. the main message should be that without the necessary reforms, europe risks stagnation, backwardness and the loss of its economic and social achievements. politicians are supposed to solve real problems, not follow popular opinion polls and flatter voters. we expect them, in the member states, to make the necessary reforms and to convince their citizens to do so. i call on the commission to act vigorously and decisively in this matter.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the debate has shown that we have a long way to go together. but it has also shown that there is a growing understanding of the new strategy for growth and jobs and that there is growing pressure to take seriously and implement the priorities we have set. the commission has listened very carefully. we will pay very close attention to what the groups and speakers have told us and we will endeavour in future debates to take parliament's wishes and suggestions into account. in conclusion, let me say again, very clearly and emphatically, that growth and employment are the priority for the years ahead because without more growth and without more employment we cannot achieve our major, far-reaching policy objectives. we cannot maintain a high environmental standard, we cannot maintain a high social standard and we cannot maintain a high standard of living unless we have a strong and sustainable economic foundation for it. that is why we say that growth and employment are the number one priority. the guidelines we have discussed today are one of the essential instruments to ensure that we can perhaps turn a deficiency into a virtue in europe. of course, it is a defect that we cannot have a common economic policy. but this can become a virtue if we agree on a new type of cooperation, such as we have developed with the partnership for growth and employment.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the next item is the debate on the report drawn up by mr csaba őrye on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs on transitional rules restricting the free movement of workers within the eu labour markets [2006/2036 (ini) ] (a6-0069/2006).
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, thank you, but i'm used to the fact that when i give a report, the reporter speaks first and the commissioner responds afterwards. but if you've decided to change that, i'm ready to step down. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mr őrry for his excellent report on a subject which is one of the pillars of european integration. the transitional measures provided for in the treaty of accession aim to enable the member states to prepare progressively for the achievement, as rapidly as possible, of the single and irrevocable objective of granting to all migrant workers who are nationals of countries which joined the european union in 2004 free access to employment in all member states, which is one of the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the treaty of rome. as provided for in the treaty of accession, the commission has assessed the functioning of these transitional measures for the first two-year phase in order to help member states to take decisions as to whether to maintain or abolish the transitional measures. on the basis of statistical data covering 2004 and sometimes the period 2005 and after consulting the various stakeholders, the commission has reached certain conclusions regarding the first stage of the transition period. the number of registered workers since accession is generally very low, rarely reaching 1% of the host country's active population. moreover, the arrival of workers from the new member states seems to have had a generally positive effect. enlargement has helped to bring the black economy of eu-8 workers out of the shadows. accession has also contributed to reducing labour shortages and improving economic performance in europe. countries that did not introduce restrictions after may 2004 have experienced stronger economic growth, reduced unemployment and increased employment. the workers who have been able to gain legal access to the labour market here have been able to integrate easily. it is clear that only member states decide whether or not to apply transitional measures, but the commission may nevertheless invite member states to objectively assess the advantages and disadvantages of transitional measures. in fact, this second stage is a genuine transitional stage which is supposed to bring us closer, either wholly or at least partially, to the goal of free movement of labour. in this spirit, member states applying restrictions under the act of accession cannot treat eu-8 nationals already legally resident on their territory in a more restrictive way than third-country nationals who are long-term residents, as announced at the previous plenary session. an explanatory letter on this subject was sent to the home affairs ministers to clarify the legal situation. in the previous minutes the rapporteur mentioned this problem of third-country nationals, so let me stress once again that in the context of the directives and the accession treaties it is not possible to grant to third-country nationals who are long-term residents in the territory of the member states of the european union more favourable treatment than that accorded to citizens who are nationals of a european union state, i.e. if certain restrictions apply to european union citizens, they logically apply to third-country nationals who are long-term residents in the territory of the european union. for the same reasons, the commission also monitors compliance with the provision that member states may not restrict access to their labour market for eu-8 workers more than before the date of signature of the accession treaty, i.e. before 16 april 2003. the commission also supports the call on member states to strictly apply community legislation, in particular in the field of posting of workers. i recognize that we must definitely strengthen the statistical monitoring of the flow of workers within the european union, because many hypotheses that would be very well suited to the debate could not be verified by the statistical and analytical apparatus of the past. the commission supports parliament's proposals to strengthen social dialogue at both european and national level, with the aim of respecting the rights of workers from the new states. the commission is also keen to raise awareness of the free movement of workers and the rights deriving from it. the declaration of 2006 as the european year of workers' mobility is also intended to contribute to this. despite concerns about gradual enlargement, the free movement of workers has not affected national labour markets. the free movement of persons is a fundamental principle for all citizens and any restriction on it can only be temporary and interpreted strictly in the spirit of the treaties. ladies and gentlemen, i have used the term new states once or twice in my speech. i would like to point out that the new states in central europe have a history of about the same length as the states in any other part of europe and that, in the sense of the enlargement of the european union, they are member states, so let me not use the term new states any longer.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report by mr őra on the transitional system restricting the free movement of workers in the labour markets of the european union must be assessed on the basis of four, in my view, fundamental criteria. first, the free movement of persons is one of the four fundamental freedoms of the single market and is a right of all citizens of the european union. the abolition of transitional periods as soon as possible is therefore a requirement for the recognition of that right. this does not mean that mass mobility within the european union should be promoted. mobility due to the need to seek work must be distinguished from the freedom of movement of persons, which is a civil right. secondly, the report rightly states, and here confirms the european commission's view, that the opening up of labour markets has been beneficial for those countries which have given up transition periods. however, the benefits and risks of free movement of persons for the countries of origin of the citizens who move should also be considered. thirdly, it is important that nationals of member states are not discriminated against against by third-country nationals in the labour markets of the european union. this does not mean, of course, that we are indifferent to the interests of third country nationals and do not wish to express our solidarity with them. finally, the free movement of persons should be seen as an important element of the european social model. as the report by mr őra and the position of the committee on employment and social affairs take account of the above criteria, the alde group will vote in favour of the report, thanking mr őra for the work done.
mr. chairman, please! the latest oecd report indicated that the most developed countries in the union are sweden, finland and the united kingdom. two of these countries opened up their labour markets, but ireland also saw gdp growth as a result of this decision. the report debunks the myth that the influx of workers from outside the country has a destructive effect on the country's economy. it's the opposite. in this employment policy we should be looking for a way out of the lisbon strategy. open labour markets in all the countries of the union. concerns about an influx of cheap labor have not been confirmed. there is limited labour migration. i therefore believe that it is necessary to remove all barriers which could in any way impede the free movement of workers in europe.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by thanking mr őra, the initiator and author of the report on transitional periods restricting the free movement of workers in the eu labour market. this text, in its original authorised version, correctly indicated that the lack of legal employment opportunities in most of the so-called old member states favours the development of illegal work and the exploitation of workers. the author also rightly raised the problem that some countries in the european union now apply greater restrictions on the movement of workers from the new member states than at the time of the signing of the accession treaty and that there are problems with better treatment of so-called long-term residents from third countries than union citizens from the new ten countries. finally, the author of the report clearly stated that in countries which have already opened up their labour markets, there has been no damage either in the social or economic sphere. on the contrary, there was an improvement in tax revenues as a result of the reduction of the grey area in the employment of foreigners. mr őra's text was also discussed and voted on by the parliament's committee on employment and social affairs. as a result, the original text has been improved. in particular, the first paragraph has been amended. in the version proposed by the committee on employment and social affairs, the european parliament explicitly takes the side of citizens and their rights to the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the treaties. i am convinced that this is how parliament should be heard - clearly and unequivocally in defence of fundamental rights and freedoms, in the interests of the community, not of a particular and national interest, in the interests of all the citizens of the european union, and i therefore believe that we should support the text which has been the result of the debate and vote in the committee on employment and social affairs.
mr. chairman, please! today's discussion of employment, the economy, the free movement of people is not as important. the fundamental question to ask here is: should labour markets open up when they have vacancies and no resources of their own, of their own willing to work, i repeat willing to work, rather than unemployed? should labour markets be opened up to provide economic growth that will create jobs? my view and my experience so far is that opening up a country's labor market creates growth and jobs. we must remember that job growth and job creation will only be possible if we make real economic reforms, not mere appearances. we must not only persuade the business community to support these reforms, but above all we must persuade the trade union community to support them. reforms are usually painful in the short term, but they have positive effects in the medium and long term. and finally, a very timely question, because we are negotiating at the wto level. to what extent and at what rate should international trade be liberalised so that the european union can achieve economic growth and create new jobs, rather than becoming a zone of consumption of imported goods, a zone with limited domestic production? finally, preparing for the flexibility and mobility of labour resources. i believe that we need to finance retraining and training for new jobs from national and eu budgets. it turns out that with our high unemployment rate, we're short of trained professionals... (the president read out the minutes)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. commissioners, i will not hide my great disappointment at the communication from the european commission which you have presented today. the revised text of the services directive appears to be a confusing document, full of vague wording, which will certainly be used by countries that are not in favour of a free market in services. commissioner mccreevy, two weeks ago at the internal market committee you said that the perfect cannot stand in the way of the good. that is true, but do you really think this project - the result of two years of efforts to liberalise the services market in the european union - is a good one? do you think that the directive as it is drafted will meet the expectations of the european economy in an era of increasing global competition? i find it difficult to understand the attitude of some governments of the 15 old member states, who are pursuing short-sighted, selfish policies and blocking competition within the european union. however, i cannot understand the passivity and apathy of the european commission, which should be guided above all by the interests of the european union as a whole and should try to achieve the objectives set out, for example, in the lisbon strategy. two months ago, as a result of a rotten compromise between the two largest political groups, the european parliament turned the draft directive upside down, as mrs gebhardt very aptly put it at the time. however, the advocates of the free market in services were assured by the commission that the liberal provisions dropped from the draft, in particular the two articles 24 and 25 which were intended to remove the barriers that posted workers face today, would be replaced by other solutions. today we know that the european commission has not kept its promise. the commission's document on the posting of workers is practically limited to describing the barriers currently in place. it does not, however, report on any proposals for sanctions against states blocking posted workers. meanwhile, the commission should radically change its policy towards those countries that are clearly and flagrantly violating eu law on the freedom to provide services. finally, commissioners, i wish you success in building a free market in the european union. this is a success that you and the union need. but to achieve it, the commission needs more courage and determination.
mr. chairman, please! thank you for presenting the guidelines for the posting of workers. this is certainly another significant step in the liberalisation of services. in the document, the commission lists the administrative barriers unlawfully imposed on companies that send their employees to work and gives examples of european court of justice judgments that consider such practices to be incompatible with the treaty, but does not propose any concrete solutions that would be effective in the current situation. the commission's determination to monitor compliance with community law was clearly lacking. it is not enough to quote the judgments of the court. there are judgments, there is a treaty, there is a directive, and there are still barriers, and nothing changes. we therefore need more decisive action, such as the initiation of infringement proceedings. i am afraid that the proposal to prepare another progress report on the removal of barriers in one year is another step in delaying the opening of such proceedings. finally, i would like to express the surprise of many members that in the commission's opinion on the services directive health services were completely excluded from the scope, even though parliament voted by a majority to include them. (laughter)
madam president! the european commission reviews the implementation of community law every year. we are now discussing the 21st and 22nd annual reports of the commission. to give an idea of the scale of the problem, it is worth mentioning that the case concerns almost 4 000 infringement proceedings, of which almost 1 000 have been the subject of a reasoned opinion and over 400 have been referred to the court of justice. it is regrettable that the commission only submitted its 22nd annual report in january 2006 with a delay, and therefore parliament can only refer in its resolution to part of the commission's information for 2004. paradoxically, the more complaints, the better. this is because they show that the citizens of the member states play an important role in the process of control and hence in the establishment of eu law. these citizens' actions are not symbolic, they build a citizens' europe and, in general, they effectively control the application of eu law. committees of the european parliament should pay close attention to the application of community law, especially in situations where the member responsible for drawing up the report is required to take an active part in monitoring the implementation of the legislation in question in the individual member states of the european union, which should then result in a call for immediate correction of such shortcomings if they are identified. to improve the smoothness of this process, the internal procedure should be shortened, as was rightly done in the european parliament's draft resolution, and the individual commissioners should be given powers to directly supervise the transposition of community legislation into national law within the required time limits. we shall achieve this by empowering the commissioners to address calls directly to the member states to correct irregularities, of course in the field of activity of each of them.
madam president! the wisdom of the legislator lies not only in the ability to make good laws but also in the ability to refrain from regulating where it is not necessary. the report's call for the expansion and clarification of the cost-benefit analysis of legislation is therefore to be warmly welcomed. the report highlights the damaging impact of political compromise on the shape of european law. we have a great example of this pathology in the form of a service directive. both sides of the dispute claim to have won it. socialist mep gebhardt claims she has turned the directive upside down, while conservative mep harbour insists we have a good compromise. so who's wrong? maybe no one is wrong. we may have produced a document with dozens of conflicting statements, all based on the principle of "something good for everyone". it is a great therapy for the states and for the union itself, including this parliament, but we are financing our well-being at the expense of citizens, businesses and the quality of the law.
madam president! better law-making in the european union requires well-formulated and transparent legislation and its prompt and correct implementation and application. there are still too many cases of incorrect implementation of community law, which are the result both of poor quality legislation and of deliberate action by member states to undermine community legislation for political, economic or administrative reasons. moreover, in many member states, national courts are still reluctant to apply the principle of the primacy of community law. if eu law is not seen as binding on everyone and its transposition and implementation depends only on the good will of the government, this may lead, as mrs frassoni rightly points out in her report, to an objective renationalisation of community policies, which will of course have a negative impact on the internal market and the entire legal acquis of the union. inconsistencies in transposition can also lead to the misapplication of union law by introducing different provisions in different countries, thus undermining the credibility of the community. if we cannot demand that the governments of the member states correctly transpose eu law, we cannot expect citizens to trust that the eu institutions, such as the commission, the council or the european parliament, will effectively protect their rights under eu law.
mr. chairman, please! the solutions provided by the 'citizens for europe' programme will help to build healthy principles of coexistence and coexistence between peoples and to promote their distinctiveness and respect for their cultural heritage. these actions can also help to break down stereotypes and build greater openness to diversity among our citizens. i was very pleased to note that in the section on commemorating places of memory for victims of totalitarian regimes, in addition to the nazi regime, financial support was also given to projects that would speak about the stalinist system. europe has had many brutal and inhuman dictators in its history, and they are worth remembering. but because of the modest budget allocated to this particular purpose, our efforts should be focused only on the two most devastating, terrifying and impactful regimes of a massive and global nature. let them become a symbol of evil, let stalinism and hitlerism be rooted in the consciousness of our children as criminal systems, so that their spectre may never return. to do so, we must also ensure that the appropriate amount is earmarked for cultural programmes in the 2007-2013 budget.
mr. chairman, please! i welcome the report by mr takkuli and the initiative to set aside a fourth action, entitled 'active european memory'. we often talk in the european parliament about economic and social integration, but we forget about historical integration, which is one of the most important elements of the integration strategy. europe has always been a reflection of the past and it is still living in that legacy. communism and nazism are two totalitarianisms that have equally marked the 20th century with crime. and there's no use in using the word stalinism, let's talk about communism, because that was the crime of the 20th century. historical experiences shape the relationships between european countries and peoples, but even the most difficult and painful facts can be transformed into strong and cordial bonds. john paul ii said that the 20th century, despite its undoubted achievements in many areas, was marked in a special way by the mystery of lawlessness. with this legacy of good and evil, we have entered the new millennium. we have seen many debates in the european parliament on historical politics, commemorating the 60th anniversary of the liberation of auschwitz-birkenau, the end of the second world war, the 25th anniversary of solidarity. these debates have demonstrated the scale of misunderstanding of basic historical facts and our historical heritage. the shaping of the attitude of a conscious european can only be done by understanding the truth about our past. the commemoration of the victims of mass deportations and exterminations by the nazi and communist regimes is not intended to foster distrust among nations, but to remind them of the fundamental rights to freedom, the rule of law and respect for others. only in this way can the european union fulfil the message of the founding fathers: unity in diversity. (applause from the right)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european capital of culture has already brought significant experiences and positive and negative effects. the positive aspects are: the development of creative activities, cultural exchanges abroad and cultural patronage, the promotion of cultural ambitions among the inhabitants and the promotion of cities. the negative aspects are: the concentration of efforts and resources on specific cultural events at the expense of the socio-cultural movement in the city and the region, the lack of an in-depth analysis of the effects of the programme implemented, the imposition on the member states and the city authorities of criteria often incompatible with regional needs and traditions, and the lack of fluidity and clarity in the financing of tasks from european funds. recently, we have seen a tendency to reduce the role of member states and selection in the selection of european capitals of culture. this trend is disturbing, and we should consider whether it is better to cooperate well or to impose our will on others. i am in favour of dialogue and creating conditions for active participation in culture, in order to preserve its beauty and diversity. i congratulate mrs prets on her work and report, and i hope that in the course of our future work we will make more use of the positive experiences and we will remove what does not enrich us, but on the contrary, diminishes the cultural offer so necessary in integration, in the dialogue of the nation.
mr. chairman, please! in 2000, my home city of krakow, poland, was the european capital of culture, along with eight other european cities. i had the pleasure of being the director of the european capital of culture programme at the time. i would like to say that the european capitals of culture are the most spectacular programme to highlight the cultural unity of our continent, but it is a programme that was born of the will of the citizens. it was not the initiative of any institution, neither the commission nor parliament. glory to the greeks, glory to mélina mercouri, for the idea of showing what europe is all about, what the cultural unity of our continent is all about, and indeed this prize should bear the name of the greek minister of culture, mélina mercouri, because it belongs to greece, it belongs to mrs mercouri. what should the european commission limit itself to? i appeal to commissioner figle: it should be support, advice, pointing out mistakes, advising good things that need to be done, and not meddling in administrative things that the commission is very happy to do and should not do in this case, because this prize, this 500 000 euro, is 2% - 5% of the total fund spent on the implementation of the european capitals of culture programme. commissioner, we must therefore support the information, websites, publishing and the presentation of the mistakes and experiences of these european capitals of culture, which have so far been active and are associated with the european capitals of culture association. you are funding 25 networks, commissioner, and this association of european capitals of culture should be among them, to provide services for those who will be carrying out this beautiful project in the near future.
i thank the rapporteur for her excellent report on the promotion of cultural values in the european union. in working on new solutions, we must always bear in mind that the new member states experienced many forms of cultural oppression during the communist period, and that the diversity of these cultures and their identity was denied. their greater involvement in the 'european capital of culture' celebrations gives them a unique opportunity to tap into the incredible energy of the 'young democracies'. it would be inappropriate not to mention one particular phenomenon among the cities vying for the title of european capital of culture in 2010: the city of goerlitz-zgorzelec, the city where i had the opportunity to grow up and study. a city that, despite the violent divisions of history, has maintained human, economic and, above all, cultural ties thanks to its inhabitants. marked by history, divided by the border after the second world war, the european union has the potential to become a new place on the map of europe, where reconciliation, understanding and transnational and cultural cooperation work on all levels. it is an example of the seemingly impossible: the victory of common interests and the will to dialogue over divisions and prejudices. this is the approach i would wish for all initiatives at european level, not just in the cultural field.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. when i heard yesterday before midnight that our negotiators had reached a compromise with the council and the commission on the new financial perspective, i was seized with mixed feelings. on the one hand, it is a tribute to our negotiators who have done a very good job, but at the same time it is a relief that this is the end of 15 months of uncertainty and tension that threatened the eu's finances. the lack of a new financial perspective meant that we could debate every year all the budgetary parameters except for compulsory expenditure and that we would be constantly late with the adoption of the budget. that's the bright side. on the other hand, the new financial perspective is clearly disappointing. it means drastically restricting the redistribution of eu funds. the union's national income is projected to increase by around 15% between 2007 and 2013, and the union budget by around 2%. these numbers speak for themselves. and in this situation, the council's insistence on accepting even the most modest of our negotiators' proposals is simply to be called petty. it is often said that some of the political forces represented here in parliament, especially those representing the new member states, are showing an incomprehensible euroscepticism. but i ask you, who here is eurosceptic, or even eurosceptic? are they not the governments of those countries that are constantly cutting the eu budget and who think that we can build a bigger europe with less and less money? i will urge my colleagues in the uen group to support the compromise on the new financial perspective, but if we continue to fall below the ceilings set in the perspective in annual budgets, i see the future of the union in a dark light. i would just like to ask you not to blame the new member states. the union's financial problems are largely due to the stingy actions of its former members. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! the development of the european economy and the living standards of its citizens depend on the good functioning of all economic actors in the global market. to achieve this, all the european institutions, which are already burdened, must work together and concentrate the available resources on internal reforms. the legal provisions, the internal procedures must be adapted to the present needs and the amendments proposed by the president should be adopted as a matter of urgency. i would like to stress that we also have not the best financial prospects, we have large deficits in various sectors of the economy. we should get this all sorted out as soon as possible. the problems of many sectors of the economy, such as agriculture, simply need to be dealt with as urgently as energy and other issues, if the european economy is to continue to develop successfully.
mr. chairman, please! at the halfway point of the lisbon strategy, which has so far been unsuccessful, the european union must finally make innovation and investment in knowledge, in the broad sense, a priority, with the result that economic growth and employment will increase. so it is surprising how eagerly the next council is to cut spending on research and educational programs, in some cases by as much as several dozen percent. where's the logic in that? what is the union going to compete with, with just 2% of economic growth and an average unemployment rate of 9%? the european union's budget is on a diet, and as it gets smaller every year, it will not be able to meet the needs of an expanding union, and anorexic europe will not be able to compete with the strong economies of the united states, china and india. the compromise reached yesterday in the negotiations on the financial perspective is certainly encouraging and gives rise to timid hope that the lisbon strategy will not remain a mere declaration on paper but a priority objective, paradoxically still at the bottom of the list of expenditure where money is usually no longer enough.
mr. chairman, please! i welcome the european council's strong statement on belarus and the position of chancellor schüssel expressed here. the council's distinction between the belarusian authorities and the belarusian public is particularly significant. this is an important distinction proposed by the european parliament as the basis of the union's strategy towards belarus. but it is not enough to condemn the rigged elections and the violence, to demand the release of the prisoners. more specific sanctions should be imposed, the list of persons banned from entering the union should be extended and bank accounts should be frozen. the european union and the european commission are doing too little for belarus and are reacting too slowly. the union should provide much stronger and more concrete support to civil society in belarus and should apply the same measure as it has applied to ukraine. first, to demand a repeat of the rigged elections. secondly, to create a substantial financial fund of solidarity and support for belarus, managed by non-governmental organizations. thirdly, to ensure that independent television and radio, both edited by belarusians themselves, are received in belarus in a significant way, and not so far symbolically. fourth, to include belarus and its civil society in certain eu programmes, such as the erasmus student exchange programme. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism and the fight against organised crime.
mr president, mr high representative, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way you have handled this matter. and it just so happens that in various sensitive parts of the world, elections are taking place recently: belarus, ukraine, palestine, israel. and the european union plays a key role in all these regions. all the better, because the united states is no longer an objective actor in the israeli-palestinian conflict. i consider you, mr high representative, to be the voice of the will of the whole union and of all the political groups in this house. israel, which knows best how hard it is to live without a state of its own, which has forced its creation from the world, should set a good example by agreeing to the creation of a palestinian state and only then demanding that hamas recognize their state.
member of the commission. firstly, i should like to thank the many speakers here for their total support for our attempts to continue the peace process. even in this very difficult time we have to try to do everything we can. however, the primary responsibility rests with the two parties and we – the international community – have to support them in following this path. i reiterate that it has to be a negotiated – not a unilateral – solution and i think that has been made very clear. we all agree that it is important for hamas to respect the three conditions; it has to renounce violence, recognise the existence of the state of israel and stand by existing agreements made by former governments. it is also highly important that the international quartet remain united. this will not always be easy, but we will try to stay united as much as we can. secondly, humanitarian aid is absolutely necessary. in past analyses we have seen that more or less half of our aid has gone to the various possibilities for humanitarian aid, not through the palestinian authority. therefore this aid will continue through the united nations organisations and international organisations. we will find ways to do that through ngos but we will also have to review our position and find some alternative mechanisms. we are working on this. however, since this is a very difficult question, we will have to see precisely what we can do. it also has to be made absolutely sure – and this is what we have to find out – that our aid will not go to the terrorists. therefore, we have to find the right balance, which is not easy. naturally, we also have to support mahmoud abbas. he is the interlocutor at present. the possibility is there, so we have to try to reinforce his office as much as we can, but again, please be patient as we are still working on the details. russia has clearly stated that when it met hamas, it kept within the framework of our quartet statement of 30 june. the russians said it was important to talk with hamas in order to get it into the right line even before the government was formed. unfortunately, we have heard that hamas has not fulfilled all the conditions, although here and there a few first steps have been taken. let me also say a few words on east jerusalem. we are particularly concerned about settlement activities and the construction of the separation barrier in and around east jerusalem, which endangers the contiguity of a future palestinian state and also threatens to vastly complicate the final status negotiations. any agreement on the city’s status must be negotiated by the two parties and should not be pre-empted by new factors on the ground, as i said before. statements by the council and by the quartet have made that abundantly clear. we are ready to assist the parties as appropriate, if requested. the first step by israel should be to end discrimination against palestinians in the cities. there are quite a number of these factors. concerning the separation barrier, the european union has stated on numerous occasions that, while fully recognising the right of israel to protect its citizens against terrorist attacks, it is particularly concerned by the route marked out for the separation barrier in the occupied west bank, which significantly departs from the green line, unjustly confiscates palestinian land and severely curtails movement and access. we again call on israel to stop and to reverse the construction of the separation barrier inside the occupied palestinian territories, including in and around east jerusalem. (applause)
high representative for the cfsp. mr president, i would like to remind honourable members of parliament that something very important has taken place in these elections. the elections in both palestine and israel have created a new political class. the political parties that have dominated life in israel and palestine over the last 20 years have disappeared or have come very low in the polls. new parties have appeared that were created only months ago. new people have appeared as leaders. what does that mean? it probably means many things, but at least for us it should mean something new, so far as the leadership is concerned. we have to invest some hope in this movement to see if we can take advantage of the situation to move the process forward. i have the impression and the deep conviction that the result of these elections is a profound change in the social structure of both societies. on the part of the palestinians there is probably no desire to have a non-secular government. i would very much like to insist on that. i do not believe that the majority of people in palestine voted for hamas because they wanted a religious government at the head of the palestinian authority. i believe they voted against other things that are more closely related to the tyrannies of not doing things properly, of corruption, of a lack of proper organisation. we have to make the effort now to do our utmost to ensure that palestine, which is probably the most secular part of the middle east, does not revert to something that probably the majority of palestinian people do not want. but at the same time there have to be people in government who are able to produce the results that the majority of people want: social services, no corruption, democracy, etc. this is where we have to make our most important impact. it is the same in jerusalem, the same in israel. when you see that the prime minister is going to be ehud olmert and not mr sharon, it is really very impressive: what a profound change has taken place in such a short period of time. the person who led kadima and likud, the party that has been running affairs in jerusalem for more than 20 years, is now suffering in hospital. there is a new party with a new leader whom nobody expected to be the leader today. now, does it open possibilities? let me believe that it opens possibilities. are we going to use those possibilities? i like to think that, yes, we are going to take advantage of those possibilities. when i talk to mr olmert, as i do frequently, i keep telling him unilateralism is not possible. we have seen that already. it was not possible to disengage from gaza unilaterally. in the end, they first had to call on the international community and then they had to call the palestinian side, because it is impossible to unravel a situation which is so united and do it unilaterally. mr cohn-bendit said that it is terrible that avian flu may spread from israel to palestine. there has been a statement today saying that we have to make sure that avian flu does not spread from one place to the other. the same person did not say that poverty cannot spread from one to the other; that suffering cannot spread from one to the other. sometimes, it seems as though we are more concerned about the spread of avian flu and are not really concerned about the suffering, the misery and the tragedy that have existed there for years. the peoples are separated by a barrier, which may not stop avian flu but may stop people going from one place to the other. (applause)that is something really sad. we have to be able to do both things – to cooperate so that avian flu does not spread, and ensure that people can move, workers can move, and progress can be made, and i think that is much more important. in 1980 we said something very important, which has been upheld. not long ago we said that we believe that the 1967 borders are the starting point for negotiations. i would like to repeat that today in this parliament. we are ready to defend that; we are ready to accept changes to borders agreed by most people – by both parties. but we cannot imagine any other solution that does not take into consideration the premise that the negotiations have to start around the 1967 borders. i should also like to say that everybody has to be given the opportunity to change. mr cohn- bendit has changed. i have changed. how many people in this chamber have changed? and i think we have all changed for the better. why do we not think that people can change for the better? now we have to give this opportunity, but we have to be very tough until the moment they change. we have to tell them that if they change they will have the opportunity to be part of the team. but, if they do not change, unfortunately they will not be part of it. as i said before, it is very difficult to change the past. nobody can change his past, only lighten his memories, as many people do. in the future, yes, we can change. we have to act to create the conditions so that people can behave differently in future. i would like to see hamas change and recognise israel. it is impossible to negotiate if you do not recognise that the other has a right to exist. that has to be reciprocal too. it is impossible to negotiate if you do not want to negotiate and at the same time you want to have a pistol in your pocket. this is not negotiation. that is the type of message we have to get across. we also have to push for plurality in palestinian society. it has been the most secular society and continues to be secular, not subject to an imposed religious society as has been represented in some hamas statements. it is a very important point and we have to think about it for the first time. a group that belongs to the muslim brothers has arrived in power democratically. we have to think about this because it has happened in palestine. it may happen in other places, and we have to think about how we are we going to deal with it. i should very much like these elements to be considered not only by think tanks, but also by political players in the european union. i have hope in my heart and i would like you to have hope in your hearts. together let us see whether we can fulfil the hopes that i am sure you have in your hearts. (applause)
i'm closing the debate. i would like to welcome to our distinguished visitors' gallery mr milinkevich, a candidate in the recent presidential elections in belarus, and mr viacorka, head of the belarusian national front. (applause) they have been invited here by the president of the european parliament as a sign of the european parliament's support for democracy and freedom in belarus. mr. milinkevich bravely led the presidential campaign under oppressive conditions created by a dictatorial government in belarus, defending human rights, democracy and civil society and fighting for values which are also ours. (applause) thank you very much. the amount of the adjustment shall be reported in column 060 of line item 1.1-1.31.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the elections in belarus.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament has already dealt with the subject of belarus on several occasions - unfortunately for the right reasons. i remember that, immediately after the elections, a special debate was held on this subject, which was very serious and very convincing. i had the honour of speaking in that debate. the council has also been dealing with the subject of belarus for some time, or had to deal with it, because it is a country of great concern. it is tragic what the people of belarus are going through at the moment. we must show our solidarity with the people of belarus today. i know that you do, and so does the council and, of course, the commission. i also welcome mr milinkevich very warmly, as does the president, and i am delighted that he is here today to take part in this debate. i hope he will continue to draw courage from the support which all the institutions of the european union are giving him, his fellow citizens and the brave men and women of belarus. i would remind you that the president of the european council, chancellor schüssel, has already spoken in the debate this morning about alexander milinkevich, and i quote: he deserves all the political support we can give him, and economic and financial support wherever it is needed. i would like to reiterate this point. the council has already dealt very intensively with the situation in belarus before the elections and has warned the rulers, in particular president lukashenko, very clearly and has called on them not to trample on human rights, to respect the right of assembly, the freedom of assembly and the right of demonstration of the people, and when the almost unbelievable threat was made by a minister to treat demonstrators as terrorists, it pointed out that the european union would not tolerate that. the elections were unfortunately - i remember that there were some who expressed the hope that perhaps a change would come about through the elections - as we now know and as the osce/odihr observer group has also noted, not democratic. they were seriously flawed. the european union as a whole and the council in particular can and must now do two things: on the one hand, we must make it clear that we will not tolerate such behaviour. we must therefore take targeted action against those responsible for these incidents. the council - and now the european council - have decided in principle to take appropriate action against those responsible for human rights violations and violations of democratic rules in belarus. the council is now preparing a decision to specify and implement this. a whole series of people will be banned from entering the country, including the president himself. the european council also made this clear in its statement accompanying the conclusions. (applause from the centre) the council is also considering the possibility of further measures, but the main emphasis must always be - and i know that this is also in your mind - that any measure taken must not affect the population. we do not want to adopt a measure which does not affect those responsible but which harms the people. the second part of what the european union can and must do - and the council has already discussed this - is to take concrete measures to support the population. i am sure that commissioner ferrero-waldner will give a detailed account of this and will list in detail what concrete measures can be taken. the member states are also called upon to do so. i say this very clearly to all the member states. when it comes to giving young people the opportunity to study in our countries, and when it comes to helping civil society, the european union is not the only one - the commission is taking concrete action - we, the member states, are also called upon to take concrete action. the chancellor mentioned it this morning: a group of countries, including austria, have already decided to provide special scholarships for young people from belarus, so that they can travel to our countries, see how things are in democratic countries, learn and tell back home that the european union has supported them and has not forgotten them. this message is also very important, that we do not forget the people, that we want to help the people, that we support them. finally, we must not tire of calling on the government to release the prisoners. we must remind them that these people have only exercised their human right to peacefully demonstrate and express their opinions freely. the council will continue to do so. we will not abandon the belarusian people and we will not rest until - as the foreign minister said - spring has come to this country. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by saying that it is a pleasure to see mr milinkevich here. we had a meeting this morning, so the day started well, and i heard directly what is in the hearts of the belarusian people. therefore, i think it was very important to have this discussion today, because we all have seen that the events in minsk confirmed mr lukashenko’s determination to win this election come what may. i remember what mr milinkevich said to me today, that even if it seems that the elections were won by mr lukashenko, in reality the belarusian people have won and mr lukashenko has started to lose the elections. this is very important for the future. unfortunately, this was exactly what we had expected. however, what was less expected was the degree to which the pluralistic forces were able to get together. i express my admiration for their courage. we hope that we will be able to continue to give as much support to the democratic forces as we can. the osce/odihr official report concluded that the elections clearly failed to meet osce standards for democratic elections. this was due in particular to the arbitrary use of state power and widespread detention, a disregard for the basic rights of freedom of assembly, association and expression, and problems with early voting, counting and tabulation processes. it is clear that we all consider the elections to be fundamentally flawed. we particularly deplore the refusal to admit registered osce and eu parliamentary observers, including members of the european parliament. we have made this known. we utterly condemn the violent suppression of protests and the detention of peaceful protesters, including mr kozulin, former polish ambassador mr maszkiewicz, and all the other unknown students, craftsmen and workers who took to the streets to demonstrate. we fully support what the president-in-office of the council said – it is very important that we impose targeted sanctions that will not affect the population but will affect those responsible for the fraudulent elections. we must see what can be done. the commission is involved in the preparations. for the future, we must continue our support for civil society. we must continue this strategy, because we want to stand by the people and work for their benefit. however, at the same time, we do not want to work with the government – or at least, we want to work as little as we can with it. in line with the council conclusions, support for democratisation will continue through our different assistance tools. we also have been working particularly on the media front, because we know that it is highly important that people take their own decisions. the current tv and radio programmes supported by the ec make an important contribution to democratisation, but also to the eu’s visibility in belarus, which we have discussed today. there is still much to be done – improvements must be made – but we must continue with those projects. i agree that we will have to see what we can do in looking for ways to support the students who were expelled from the universities. perhaps not at the next council, but in the near future, we will establish programmes and the commission, together with the council, will certainly support them. we have already been financing vilnius university, because minsk has been closed, and we have tried to give the young people a chance. people-to-people contacts are most important in order to enhance the possibility of working together. we must do everything against repression, on the one hand through declarations that we officially put out through the council, and on the other hand by clearly speaking up in our meetings with the russians, pointing out that we want a belarus where human rights and the rule of law are respected. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is true that today's debate is actually a continuation of the one we had two weeks ago, when - i will remind you - we passed the solidarity with the belarusians exam. we reacted appropriately and appropriately, we condemned the repression, we demanded the release of those arrested and sentenced, and most importantly we supported the demonstrators in october square who exercised their civil rights. it was also important that two weeks ago both the commission, the council and our parliament spoke with one voice. it would be good to keep this common language of conversation about belarus. but now the time for political declarations is over, and the time for action is beginning; the time for diagnosis is over, the time for prescribing is beginning. this means that the commission and the council have to take a number of bold decisions and i am very pleased that both minister winkler and commissioner ferrero-waldner have already spoken about some of them, but there are a few more things worth mentioning. first, if we have found these elections undemocratic, then they do not give lukashenka a mandate to serve a third term, and this means that we must unequivocally demand a repeat of these presidential elections, as the belarusian opposition has been calling for a long time. secondly, not only must the list of persons banned from entering the european union be considerably extended, but also the list of persons responsible for violating civil rights and freedoms must be extended to include not only local, regional and national administrations, but also university rectors who are responsible for expelling students who are demonstrating, or editors who are responsible for propagandizing the regime. thirdly, we must quickly ease the visa policy towards belarusian citizens so that we can actually implement our demand not to isolate society, but to isolate the authorities. the belarusians must have more freedom to travel and that is why we need to make visa facilitation easier. fourthly, we must demand the release of political prisoners in the forums of international organisations, the united nations and the osce. one of them is today the polish diplomat, mr mariusz maszkiewicz, whom i am very pleased the commissioner has mentioned, and i hope that the council will also take swift action to ensure that mr maszkiewicz is released from prison in minsk. fifthly, it is essential to include the issue of belarus on the agenda of the next eu-russia summit, because russia has the political and economic tools to exert pressure on russia that can help to soften the regime in minsk, and the union has the tools to exert pressure on russia that can help it to do so, and in this sense the council itself must be able to use such tools. sixthly and finally, in order to break this information monopoly, we must not only support radio broadcasting and, in future, television, but also act sensibly, and that is why i call for no further funds to be wasted in support of these initiatives which do not reach the belarusian people. (laughter)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i too, on behalf of the union for a europe of nations group, would like to extend a warm welcome to mr milinkiewicz and mr wincuk wiaczorka in the european parliament. i sincerely hope that the day will come when you gentlemen can sit in this courtroom. we know exactly what to think about lukashenko's dictatorship. the policy of isolation and confrontation with the authorities and openness to the belarusian people no longer arouses any objection or doubt in europe today. but our noble plans will not succeed unless we take greater political responsibility for the future of belarus. if we delegate too much of the responsibility for this process of change to russia, our efforts will not produce the desired results. democracy under russian patronage will be half-hearted, just as democracy in russia itself is half-hearted. too much russian involvement in the process of change will prevent fundamental geopolitical changes in the region. without these changes, without a real linking of belarus with europe, we will not achieve political and economic stability in the region. we therefore need not only instruments for immediate assistance to the opposition, but also a broad political plan for the new belarus, which must envisage the country's proper place in europe. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! it is worth recalling that, contrary to popular belief, the european union and poland share a border with belarus. but europe and poland also share a common history with belarus and, i hope, a common future. our parliament has done a lot for the emerging democracy in belarus recently. milinkiewicz and wiaczorka believe that the end of the dictator is near. let's not wait for the next election, let's help now to deal a final blow to a system that is violently opposed to democracy. belarusians are a remarkably peaceful and patient people. democracy is slowly being born there, but once it is established, the european union will have a long-term loyal partner and guarantor of peace in belarus.
mr. chairman, please! the european union believes that the eu's ability to put pressure on mr lukashenko's regime is limited because the eu has little meaning in the politics and economy of belarus. that's not true. while exports to the eu were still 10% lower than exports to russia in 2004, exports to the eu were already 12% higher than exports to russia last year. the european union is therefore becoming an increasingly important factor in the belarusian economy, and this must also be the basis for our belief that we can really have an impact on what is happening in belarus. what are the possibilities of influence, mr klich has already spoken about. i would like to say only one thing, namely: in response to what lukashenko is doing, limiting the possibilities of leaving (the departure of young people, even for treatment), charging those who leave with additional costs, we need to introduce not facilitation in terms of lowering the criteria for granting visas but reducing the funds, the cost of visas, even to introduce free visas. finally, we must change the way we interact with belarus in terms of financial aid, we must remove various barriers, and i would ask mrs ferrero-waldner if there are any formal obstacles to making these measures flexible, please tell us. parliament will help. and finally, one thing to say: we should, as the british and americans say, put our money where our mouth was.
mr. chairman, please! there is a beautiful story by a belarusian writer vasyl bykov called "love me, soldier" published ten years ago. in it, the author described, symbolically of course, the identification of belarus with european civilization and a similar value system, in which ideology based on hatred is rejected. in october square, the belarusians proved that they had broken the pervasive lies of state propaganda spreading hatred for europe. for a few days, this square became an island of freedom crying out for belarusian national identity. the sense of identity in this sense was worked on not only by the political opposition, but also by the creators of belarusian culture and literature, such as vasyl bykov, uladzimir arlou, slavamir adamowicz, and even by the youth involved in the modern pop culture movement. therefore, we should break the stereotype that unfortunately still exists in europe, that belarusians are so russified that they do not want their own identity based on a separate culture, language and national symbols. so what concrete help can the european commission offer in this regard? the two million euros the commission has allocated to free media is a drop in the bucket compared to the widespread propaganda, indoctrination, regime media, for which president lukashenko has allocated 60 million dollars this year alone. in addition to supporting free media and independent journalists, funds are needed for programs that also finance: first, independent publishing houses that publish in belarusian not only political and scientific journals, but also belarusian literature, for scholarships for belarusian creators - writers, poets, painters, scientists - allowing them to survive in order to create, and finally for scholarships for students who are not only expelled from universities, but for those who do not want to study in regime universities and be subject to total indoctrination, and choose private universities in belarus or european universities. for the authorities who imprison poets for writing poetry, the only answer is to support free thought and creativity. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner, finally, to take into account in the decision-making bodies, when deciding on the way and the persons to whom financial assistance for a free belarus should be granted, those who know and understand belarus, its specific features and problems, and the national identity i have mentioned.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am glad that the commissioner has taken the opportunity to speak on this subject, and i am glad that he has been able to give us a very clear answer to the question. it is important that the european union speaks with one voice on this issue and sends the right signal. the council, and i am sure the commission, will continue to work in this direction. herr klich and others after him have mentioned the question of influencing russia. i would remind you that the declaration annexed to the european council conclusions explicitly states that we must look for ways of involving our international partners - and in particular belarus' neighbours - in this debate. there is no doubt that this issue must also be raised with russia, an important neighbour of belarus. you can be sure that in its contacts with russia - there has just been a human rights debate and there will be other occasions - the council will not keep this issue quiet. the question was asked, hopefully very rhetorically, whether we are afraid. all i can say is, no, we're not afraid. we know very well what our values are and we stand up for them. many people have reminded us that visa facilitation must be targeted and specific to those people whom we are receiving here and to whom we are showing how western democracy works. this is of course accompanied by certain administrative issues. we 're working on it . we want to invite the right people and give them the opportunity to come to us. on the other hand, the debate also called for the right people, namely those responsible, to be put on the visa ban list. the difference between the visa ban that existed before the elections and the current situation is that in the previous cases only civil servants were covered, whereas now we are doing exactly what many of you have asked: we want to meet those politicians who are responsible. the council will be very specific in its decision to adopt such a list, and there will be nothing to prevent it from being implemented. the council will also look at possible further sanctions and measures, and we really have to be very careful not to take measures which will ultimately achieve the exact opposite of what we want to achieve. it's about not putting people in unnecessary danger by taking action. we want to protect them, including mr milinkevich, and we want to send a clear signal that we stand in solidarity with the people and those who are exercising their rights. you can be sure that the council will continue to deal with the measures which are ultimately useful and which lead to the goal which we all share, namely democratization and inclusion of this country in the european union's neighbourhood programme, with all the seriousness and the precision that is required. because that's what it's all about. we must show and tell people that it is an advantage if the conditions are met so that this country can be included in the european neighbourhood programme, like ukraine and other countries. another objective is to enable this last country, which is not yet a member of the council of europe, to join it. this is not possible today, because only countries which are willing and able to respect the human rights enshrined in the european convention on human rights can become members of the council of europe. all this is to happen one day, and the council will continue to work towards that.
member of the commission. mr president, i think the key message here was that we would like to be able to include belarus in the neighbourhood policy. that is what we would like to do, with all the benefits for the population and the country. let me answer a few of those specific matters brought up again in the discussion. regarding belarus, we are granting support to ngos registered outside belarus for activities benefiting belarus through the eidhr, the european initiative for democracy and human rights, and that is not natural because, according to our rules, normally we can only work with ngos inside the country, so we have tried to find a flexible solution. that flexibility will be continued over the coming years. an additional eur 420 000 will soon be made available to ngos located outside belarus under the same instrument, and calls for proposals are there. our future assistance tools that will replace the eidhr and decentralised cooperation for the next period under the financial perspectives will allow for assistance to be granted outside belarus. and we are currently finalising a proposal for our assistance strategy for the coming years. the media project was mentioned. it was very important to start with the media project that we financed. we financed five components of the media: tv, radio, the internet, support for the independent written press and the training of journalists over the next 24 months. we will have to continue with that. the daily radio broadcasts and the weekly tv programmes for belarus started in february and immediately – i would say, two weeks after we had signed the contract – we tried to do everything to make the population of belarus aware of that. both the radio and tv components will keep providing independent, reliable and – we hope – very balanced information on belarus, as well as on the eu, on the diversity of its 25 member countries, and on our relations with belarus. we, the commission, will keep on developing synergies with other donors in the scope of this project, and radio programmes are now broadcast by a number of technical providers, via both fm and am waves – i know that is another concern – and via the internet, which includes downloading options. on the question of visa facilitation, we know that this is something that has been requested. the general approach on visa facilitation that was adopted by the council in december last year stated that, as opposed to readmission agreements, visa facilitation shall not be offered to third countries proactively. despite this general common position, we are looking for possibilities to facilitate people-to-people contacts between the european union and belarus through measures waiving visa fees on an ad hoc basis. it is not yet decided, but it is in the pipeline. in that respect, the existing acquis and measures under preparation already provide for the appropriate marges de manoeuvre for member states to hopefully waiver visa fees for visitors from belarus. finally, on the question of students, we are very much inclined to facilitate access of belarusian students to its universities. we fully share the view expressed by many of you that students have to be helped, not least because they have been the platform, the basis and the bulk of those who have protested peacefully after the elections, but also because the cementing of democracy will rest very much on their shoulders. therefore we can facilitate access of the students to our universities, provided that all the member states and the commission pull their forces together and provided that we can find some sort of coordination between member states and us, and i think the commission would be ready to do that. this will also require financial efforts, which we are ready to consider. we have the tempus and erasmus programmes and, along with efforts made by the member states, i think we can do a lot. finally, on russia, as mr winkler has already said, russia is always clearly a topic in political dialogue because we speak about our common neighbours. these include the south caucasus, ukraine, moldova and belarus. president barroso spoke with vigour on 17 march and reminded president putin of our well-known position on democratisation but also warned that we would not accept violence on election day. there was no bloodshed during the elections on election day, but russia needs to be convinced that leaders other than president lukashenko would not threaten the special relationship with belarus. you can be assured that we will try to go on working for you and with you on this issue.
i have received six draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with article 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the european union attaches great importance to respect for human rights and the building of democracy throughout the world. it must pay even more attention to what is happening just beyond its borders. the last dictatorship in europe has painfully re-opened its sinister face. the falsification of elections, the persecution of political opponents, the suppression of freedom of speech and assembly are actions of the belarusian regime. we support the belarusian opposition because they are fighting for something that is standard in our country, for freedom and democracy. the belarusian opposition is also fighting for the sovereignty of the country, which is threatened by the dictator's sick and anti-national ambitions. we support the opposition not because of political sympathies, but because of the goals for which it has undertaken to fight. on the other hand, we should do everything possible to make life difficult for the lukashenka regime. if someone doesn't respect the values that we hold dear, they shouldn't be able to benefit from them. the dictator's henchmen should know that europe is not for them. europe is for those who respect freedom, democracy, the rule of law. aleksader milinkiewicz says that dictatorship will not last long, that it can be felt in the air. i wish the people of belarus and all of europe that these words will prove prophetic. may the optimism of those who fight for freedom... give them wings to fly... and lead to the overthrow of the tyrant.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. what a difference! a few minutes ago we were discussing the so-called "elections" in a country where we had to say that international observers had also said that they were not fair, free and democratic. we are talking about a country where democratization has made great progress and where the european union has also contributed a great deal to making it so. the parliamentary elections in ukraine on 26 march are at the other end of the democratic spectrum compared with belarus. they were - apart from some technical flaws and inadequacies - free and fair and gave the ukrainian voters the opportunity to make their choice unhindered and well informed after an active and open fair election campaign under the observation of a free press. the international observers have also noted this. this is a great success for all of us, a success for europe, for the european union, for the osce and for the council of europe. we are pleased to note that these elections were held under the conditions we would like to see. the elections also showed that the ukrainian people have taken ownership of democracy in their own country. this is a milestone in the process of consolidating a democracy that began with the so-called orange revolution. what is particularly important to me and therefore also fitting that the two debates on belarus and ukraine are taking place at the same time : the elections set a new and welcome standard for elections in the region as a whole and are therefore also an example for the region and for other countries in the union. there have been technical shortcomings and inadequacies, but not to the extent that we should be concerned about them. we assume that these shortcomings can be remedied by the authorities themselves and will not be repeated in the next elections. the european union is now in a position to continue its work on deepening the partnership with ukraine, unlike in the case of belarus. this partnership is based on shared values, which are reflected in the quality of democracy and reforms in ukraine. the elections were an important milestone in this respect and paved the way for negotiations on a new, enlarged agreement with ukraine to replace the partnership and cooperation agreement. we are pleased to support the new government of ukraine in moving forward swiftly with its reform agenda. we will do our part to ensure that the programme continues to be implemented and brought to life in the framework of the neighbourhood policy and the action plan, and that this country continues to make progress both in the democratic field - here the country has already come a long way - and in the economic, social and political fields. we, the european union, want to help.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i shall make it even shorter, because our president-in-office has already said everything. the elections were indeed free and fair, and we can be very happy about that. president yushchenko has made this his own objective. he did well. the question now is which coalition will be formed. the coalition formations are underway. they're not easy. but it is important that we make clear now that we will be very happy to work with any coalition that wants to continue to work with the european union and in our direction. it is very important that we can already indicate that there will be a new offer to ukraine for an intensified agreement, in which the wto issue will play a role. if there is wto membership, there can be a free trade area. this is very important for ukraine's further progress. that is all we have to say at the moment. but of course we want to continue to work with ukraine on this path to the european union within the framework of the neighbourhood policy.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are many, we are many - under this slogan, a year and a half ago, ukrainians won freedom on the independence square. they won the war for a better country. on march 26th, the same people, in the same country, wiser than them by a year and a half of experience, asked themselves the question: how do we win peace? 70% of ukrainians went to vote with confidence that none of the votes would be falsified, that none of the votes would be wasted. that's how the ukrainians started winning the peace. international observers, including representatives of the european parliament, which i had the honour to chair, ruled that the elections were free and fair. it's a certificate of the quality of democracy. the european parliament has a stake in this success. i would like to thank the members of parliament from all political groups who took part in the observation mission and were in ukraine during those days. we can congratulate ourselves on a job well done. what does ukraine look like after the election? weak, small, and leader-driven parties were eliminated, and only five groups entered parliament. viktor yanukovych and the party of regions won, but they don't have the palm of victory. the orange groups of tymoshenko, yekhanurov and moroz, who bear special responsibility for what happened and will happen in ukraine, won more than half of the seats in the supreme council. the country's geographical and political divisions have persisted, although the programs of the parties often vary little. what's the next move? ukraine needs a strong coalition and a stable government. we expect that this program, and not the historical reminiscences of the maidan, a bold and pro-reform program will be the basis of the future coalition of the new ukrainian government. a special responsibility and role is played by president yushchenko, who, in addition to consolidating the orange coalition, must consolidate ukrainians around the most important issues, and this is the program of rebuilding the country, which cannot be implemented by the majority against the minority, but only in agreement with this minority. ukrainian political elites should learn how to compromise, what cohabitation is, and understand that despite differences, there are things worth agreeing on. the resolution reflects the european parliament's common thinking on ukrainian issues, it creates a commitment to us, it creates a commitment to the european institutions, it creates a commitment to all those who have been committed to the cause of progress in ukraine.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to emphasize what my predecessor has just said and also call on the commissioner to put forward stronger and more precise words on ukraine's future membership of the european union. it is difficult to find a more convincing, joyful and courageous example of the success of democracy in europe's recent, short history. exactly these 70% of ukrainians who have exercised their right to vote, a right that was still widely questioned and directly threatened a year and a half ago, these 70% of ukrainians show us how important democracy is, which in europe is already often treated as a commonplace and in fact a thing that does not need to be nurtured. i want to tell you that it's a good thing that the speakers taking part in this debate are not judging the outcome of the elections in ukraine and they are not judging the outcome of the ukrainian people's vote. the involvement of members of this house in the election a year and a half ago was not about whether we supported this or that candidate. we supported the right of ukrainians to express their free will. in this election, that right was preserved, in this election, ukrainians voted. they need our support on their way to the european union.
mr. chairman, please! ukraine, the european union's closest neighbour, has become a parliamentary democracy, as my colleagues have just been saying, but democracy takes time to build, it takes time to build, and a healthy free market economy is an indispensable part of democracy. this is the biggest challenge for our eastern neighbors. ukraine needs support and the assurance that it will be welcomed with the european union's warmth and openness. it's about promoting in ukraine not only the values we believe in, but also our common interests. first, ukraine can support the eu's energy policy because it has its own natural gas resources, it has the largest natural gas reserves in europe, and we can import gas and oil from the caspian sea through its territory independently of other countries. this requires joint investment in pipelines, based on the european investment bank, the neighbourhood policy, the trans-european networks. secondly, the gradual opening up of the economy to ukraine is greatly increasing the european common market for goods. third, eu investment in ukraine can be particularly profitable because of its well-educated people and a buoyant market. fourth, ukraine does not have the demographic problems that other european countries have. fifth, an independent, democratic, market-oriented ukraine would be a stabilizer for eastern europe and would also promote beneficial economic and political changes in its neighbours. i repeat, it's not just the values we defend, which are the most important, but our interests. it is worth taking care of them, it is worth moving as soon as possible to an association agreement with ukraine and adopting the principle of visa-free travel for ukrainians.
mr. chairman, please! i think that the european union today does not regret its commitment to resolving the conflict in ukraine a dozen or so months ago. thanks to the european union's involvement, no blood was shed. thanks to the involvement and mediation of the european union, democracy began to develop very slowly, but nonetheless. and right now, this election is a huge success. the only question is, what next? how can we help ukraine, as minister winkler has just assured us? well, i believe that the european union must make it clear that ukraine has the right to become a member. it must finally say so, clearly, setting, of course, high and rigorous standards which will probably have to be met for a long time. but we have to say it because only such an offer will be a sufficient signal to mobilize the internal forces to act for the development of a free market economy and democracy.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the commission's proposals. this is why the council, a few years ago, identified a number of key areas in which the european union is seeking to make progress in the dialogue process. this includes in particular the unhindered exercise both in public and in private of freedom of religion or belief and respect for cultural rights and religious freedom in tibet and xinjiang. religious freedom was therefore clearly highlighted on the agenda of eu-china meetings, not only in dialogue sessions but also at higher levels. i can confirm from my own experience both in my previous role as legal adviser, who was also responsible for human rights, and in my current role, that these issues are indeed being addressed at a variety of levels. in line with this council conclusion, the european union has systematically raised not only the persecution of christians, the restriction of house churches and the distribution of bibles in prisons, but also the persecution of buddhists, muslims and members of the falun gong movement, a subject which the eu has addressed on many occasions. we have also made it clear that we believe these practices are in breach of china's international commitments. more recently, the dialogues of september 2004 and october 2005 have discussed religious freedom in depth, and the eu troika visited tibet and xinjiang as part of the dialogue. the eu has repeatedly called on china to comply with the recommendations of the un special rapporteur and the un bodies in the field of freedom of religion or belief. it has also consistently raised specific cases and demanded that the chinese authorities investigate reports of torture and provide information on conviction. the outcome of these discussions so far has been that, while welcoming the opportunity to have in-depth discussions with relevant ministries, authorities, etc., the eu has seen many of its concerns about restrictions on religious freedom in china confirmed. in 2005, china officially invited the un special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief, and the eu looks forward to the confirmation of a visit. it is clear that this invitation is a significant step forward. the european union will continue to work at all levels to achieve freedom of religion or belief in china, including through the process of ratification and implementation of the international covenant on civil and political rights.
the author's deputy. thank you very much for your answer, i think it's a good one. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the future of the eu's external relations. it is very good that he is moved at the troika meetings and at the high level meetings, whereas mr sonika's wish, of course, is to put more pressure on the chinese side to implement these demands.
the president of the council. to mr posselt's question: the presidency of the council considers that the development of the two railway lines axis no 17: paris strasbourg stuttgart vienna bratislava and axis no 1: berlin munich verona palermo is of central importance in order to reduce road congestion, particularly by lorries. these are major projects aimed at bringing the different modes of transport into balance and contributing to a sustainable transport system in the european union. in addition, these crossborder projects will improve economic integration in the internal market. the construction of the two axes - since you specifically asked for the time component - is expected to be completed in 2015. the final decision on these major crossborder projects and their rapid implementation will, of course, depend on the financial perspective for 2007-13 and, in part, as already mentioned, on the need to raise private funds. once the necessary budget has been agreed, a long-term implementation plan is needed to complete these ambitious projects. i would like to conclude by saying that i am personally firmly convinced, particularly as regards the north-south transit route of the axis 1 berlin-munich-verona-palermo, that the groundwork will be laid this year and we can start. i myself laid the foundation stone for the core piece, the brenner base tunnel, and over the last three and a half years, together with my colleague lunardi, i have done everything to bring this project to where it is today. i believe that joint efforts on these two important axes are both appropriate and necessary.
the author. i did not receive a reply to a specific question concerning the gdańsk-vienna axis. this section is extremely important because when we look at the accession of new member states from central europe to the old countries of the european union, without this section we do not have a significant segment of the transport network. we have two lines planned: paris-vienna, the other priority line planned from antwerp via warsaw to helsinki - rail baltica - but we have not filled this segment, we are missing a fundamental, fundamental segment and that is what i am asking the vice-chancellor about.
mr. chairman, please! this year's world health day is being celebrated under the theme 'working for health', which as we know is a multidimensional medical, social and political good, and therefore cannot be a problem for the individual. the health of all citizens should be one of the main values of any country. we cannot accept restrictions on economic resources that make the situation worse for the weakest and poorest groups in society, depriving millions of people of essential medical care. nor should care be limited or withheld from particularly vulnerable people, unborn children or the elderly and seriously ill. it is not enough to repeat appeals or celebrate world health day, but it is necessary to train medical staff who understand work in this field as a service and a vocation, without which it is difficult to speak of providing effective health care not only in poorer countries. in an era of globalisation and liberalism, it is vital that ethical and moral principles, especially in medicine and healthcare, be applied to safeguard the dignity, dignity and health of every human being. the problem with health care today is that it is based on a materialistic view of life, where money, business, and economics are the dominant forces, while human life and health are relegated to the background. the huge economic gap between the new and old member states, which offer ten times higher wages and excellent technical working conditions, is driving the emigration of highly educated medical workers. at least in poland we have fairly good conditions for development and vocational training, but there are no satisfactory financial prospects, which is the reason for the brain drain. i wonder what the proposal for a code of ethics for recruitment would be, what criteria would be applied in such a code, which would allow or not allow the emigration of workers. i hope that these are not strict criteria of merit, which deprive poorer countries even more of outstanding specialists.
mr. chairman, please! as we see today, the health care situation is already deeply unsatisfactory in europe, let alone in africa. in africa, one of the things we need to do is to make sure that people with aids can get generic drugs, which are much cheaper, but still too expensive for africa. another important african issue is the one mr bowis raised. this is about the return of people educated in europe to their home countries who need them. in europe, we need to increase the mobility of patients and health services. in poland, for example, it is difficult for nurses to find work for 250 euros a month, while in belgium hospital wards are being closed precisely because of the lack of nurses. in addition to mobility, the system of recognition of medical and paramedical diplomas should be harmonised. in general, we lack a common strategy and policy for health in europe. and finally, the question of funding research programmes, for example in the field of cancer. it's a scandal to raise money for this research on television. this should be provided by national budgets or european programmes. we were able to mobilize in the face of the sudden threat of avian influenza, but we are unable to fight the deadly diseases that have been known for ages.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the medical field, we're winning against avian flu, because there are very few cases of this disease, and in the case of humans, it's completely isolated, but in the information field, it's a total disaster. there was no reliable and objective information on the threat of an epidemic and how to prevent it. in the media, every dead swan made the front page of the news. bird flu is being talked about as an impending apocalypse. the public is informed in a haphazard, chaotic, often incompetent way. the actions of veterinary services often run counter to common sense: the slaughter of entire flocks of domestic birds seems to be a show and a mere formality when millions of wild birds can transmit the disease without any hindrance. there is a lot of thoughtless cruelty involved, and we have seen live birds on television screens being pushed upside down into bags and tossed around like potato sacks. there have also been unscientific reports that avian influenza can be transmitted to humans through cats, resulting in negative attitudes toward these animals as well. under these circumstances, it's hard to wonder about the panic in the market and the collapse of the poultry industry. it is good that we are taking market support measures in this situation and this deserves full support, including these amendments which aim to increase the level of this support. i would like to draw particular attention to the amendment tabled on behalf of the uen group, which aims to increase the level of support in the new member states, where farmers and breeders are in a more difficult situation, receiving only partial direct payments. the most important support for the poultry sector should be sound information and market stabilisation. the european commission should do this, as it can be even more credible than national authorities in such crisis situations. the commission should send a clear message about the ways in which the disease is spread and, above all, that the consumption of poultry meat does not pose a risk of disease. we should also appeal to the media to exercise restraint and avoid panic. we should also learn from this crisis for the future, because in a similar situation, reliable information should reach the public much earlier.
mr. chairman, please! the european union has a long history of responding to crises. it has already applied exceptional market support measures on several occasions. it was linked to mad cow disease and acne, among other things. now it's time to face the bird flu. the craft industry is an important part of the food economy and should not be neglected. the emergency measures are necessary. the only remaining points to be agreed are the scope of the aid and the amount of the funds. different practices have been used in the past. the community has covered member states' losses at different rates, usually between 50 and 100%. the regulation under discussion today also provides for significant support for the poultry sector. the commission has already proposed that the member states should be allowed to pay the costs of the project. unfortunately, equity does not mean fair, especially since the old member states have 100% direct payments to agriculture and the new member states only 30%. i therefore believe that the principle should be adopted that member states which have 100% subsidies should receive 50% of the costs incurred from the community, and that those member states which have incomplete community subsidies and contribute to agriculture from their own budget should receive at least 75%. we must be consistent: either we talk about a europe of solidarity or we actually create one. if we are to build a europe of solidarity, it must have both social and economic implications. people are especially good at dealing with difficult, dramatic, disastrous situations. it is often said that a man is only as good as what he can share with another man. we can therefore say that a union of nations and states will be worth as much as it can secure a fair distribution of income and costs, as long as it is solidary and just.
mr. chairman, please! we hear about bird flu in wild birds almost every day these days. while it is primarily a disease of wild animals, can it be confined to wild birds? there's no clear answer, but we do know that it occurs in poultry. the poultry sector is extremely specific. in the european union, it operates on market principles. so there 's little chance of helping this sector . it is therefore necessary to provide for the possibility of aid to poultry in a crisis situation. such assistance should be organised in such a way as not to infringe market rules and should be used in exceptional situations where there is a crisis on the market. there's a need for a broader view here. that's what the specificity of agriculture means, what it means to intervene in different agricultural markets in specific situations, when you just need intervention, outside help. i think it is an important lesson for us to learn that the common agricultural policy should provide this sector with special support instruments.
mr. chairman, please! i am very pleased, as are my colleagues, to have accepted the commission's initiative to apply exceptional measures to support the poultry and egg markets. what is needed is swift and decisive action. although we have been preparing for the arrival of avian influenza in europe for a long time, we have not been able to avoid panic. when the first cases were found to be in farmed poultry, rather than wild birds, demand for poultry fell dramatically, by up to 70% in some countries. sales and exports have declined, and some countries have imposed import restrictions banning imports of community poultry. this pervasive panic is fueled by the media, which often provides unreliable information. instead of informing and reassuring the public, they only exacerbate the situation. therefore, avian influenza is not the main threat to breeders. the biggest pain is the media, and the biggest pain is the panic that is the result of the lack of a coherent information policy of the european union on this issue. it is good that the commission has proposed exceptional market support measures, linked to the loss of consumer confidence in the sector. however, the proposed co-financing of 50% of the costs may undermine competition in the european union and constitute a step towards the renationalisation of the common agricultural policy. it should also be borne in mind that there are no national borders for diseases, so the highly virulent avian influenza virus can spread freely between countries. then it's not just a problem of one country, but of the whole community. in this context, a 100% level of support should be guaranteed. it's necessary for the fight to be effective. partial funding won't change anything. this calls for decisive action at european level. it should also be recalled that in the case of bse the level of co-financing was 100%. why does the commission not propose similar conditions for avian influenza? it is worth adding that the commission's proposals are only temporary measures, they can only be taken for a limited period of time and do not guarantee the stability of markets in exceptional situations in the long term. we need a new, coherent insurance system, which we have mentioned many times in this chamber.
mr. chairman, please! the world bank estimates that $1 trillion is spent on bribes worldwide every year. the african union estimates that corruption costs the african economy more than 25% of its gdp each year. however, in discussing corruption in developing countries, we cannot forget the shameful practice of countries such as the united states, denmark and germany, which until recently allowed companies to hand out bribes in central and eastern european countries, including poland, and then allowed these amounts to be included in the cost of generating revenue. corruption is a serious threat to development. to understand the problem and find effective remedies, decisive action is needed, such as the creation of a blacklist system that would prevent banks from lending money to corrupt governments or their agents.
mr. chairman, please! the world bank estimates that one trillion dollars is spent on bribes worldwide each year. how many great initiatives could be done with that money, spending a trillion dollars a year and helping those who really need it. corruption limits the access of the poor to goods, reduces the efficiency of public services and, above all, causes a loss of trust in public institutions. as the largest donor of aid to developing countries, the european union should be particularly active in ensuring the transparency of aid programmes financed from the community budget. so it is not enough to create an international "blacklist" of corrupt governments. the fight against corruption should involve a broad front of politicians, officials, ngos, multinational corporations, and the media. only by coordinating the efforts of international donors can aid be spent more efficiently, preventing misuse or misappropriation by corrupt officials. that is why the report drawn up by mr van der berg is so timely and so important, and i congratulate him on the excellent document he has produced.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the turkish authorities' attitude to the current events in diyarbakir and the management of the crisis in south-eastern turkey are unacceptable to the european union. turkey, which does not respect the kurdish community of 12 million people living on its territory, does not respect the cultures and religions of the countries of the european community either. the confidence of turkish prime minister recep erdogan borders on arrogance. he must not think that the european union has to do anything to turkey. on the contrary, commissioner, i believe that the decision to open negotiations with turkey gives the european union the right to suspend them at this stage.
mr. chairman, please! once again we are dealing with the darfur issue in the european parliament it's such a neverending story. the sudanese government is regrettably held fully responsible for the ongoing fighting in the region. charter has no respect for international agreements or the authority of the united nations, and has seen the latest un peacekeeping mission as a return to colonialism. however, it is worth noting that the sudanese government is daring to act this way because of the lack of international isolation. the arms supply to this country, as my honourable predecessors have said, is provided by russia, among others. you should call things by their right names. in darfur, we are dealing with genocide and this should be unequivocally condemned by the un. it is highly inappropriate that some countries - including russia - are blocking the un security council's action in this regard. the european parliament should put pressure on national opinion to stop darfur being a symbol of rape and violence.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i and the party i represent have been and are supporters of the intervention of western democracies in iraq in defence of basic values and basic human rights. from this point of view, as a supporter of the intervention of the united states and other democratic powers in iraq, i must say that i accept with the greatest concern and the greatest sadness the manifestation of human rights violations by a government that should be democratic and that should introduce democracy in iraq. it is indeed an embarrassing situation for all of us if, after the overthrow of saddam hussein's dictatorship, we continue to witness human rights violations in iraq. and that's why, although i disagree with a lot of my previous speakers, and i disagree with the use of the word "invasion" in relation to what happened in iraq, in this case i have to admit and say that in this room, i think we should all come together and make a very clear demand both to the western powers and to the new democratic iraqi government to clearly and firmly respect human rights. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the rights of the child are respected, and that the rights of the child are protected. i also want to say very clearly that it is good that this house has the strength to speak out in defence of the christian minority. it must be made clear that christians are being persecuted not only in iraq but throughout the world, and that we, in the name of this community, of which my honourable predecessor spoke just now, we europeans, must take action in defence of christians. today in europe, and especially in the european union, the rights of minorities are guaranteed, including religious minorities, including muslims, and all other minorities that you can imagine that exist on our continent. it is the standard and it is part of the achievement of what the european union is and what the state of european civilization is today. that is why we have every right to call for human rights for christians. what is happening in iraq affects - and this has a special dimension - the ancient population of this area, a population whose christianity is very deeply rooted in history, as well as their ethnic ties, which are ties to the iraqi land. these are not the flooded people, these are not invaders, these are the indigenous people of the area. i hope that in this bipartisan resolution, as is often the case in this house, in which we can find a compromise, we will be unambiguous both in demanding respect for human rights from the new democratic iraqi government and in demanding full religious freedom for all iraqis.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in iraq, we have seen an increase in the use of violence against religious minorities in recent months. for example, on january 29, four churches and the vatican's representative office in baghdad and two churches in kirkuk were attacked, killing three people, including a 14-year-old child, and injuring many others. the violence is particularly directed against the assyrian community and other christian minorities. the assyrian community, which is descended from the ancient population of these territories, is facing forced displacement and, as a result, the world's culture is at risk of the assyrian culture disappearing from the iraqi area. the most important problem in the reconstruction of iraq remains the guarantee of the rule of law. a political situation with many signs of civil war cannot lead to a dirty war in which the forces of order use constant torture, hostage-taking and arbitrariness in the fight against rebel forces. iraq needs more judges, a professional police force and a prison system that meets international standards. the iraqi ministry of human rights and the european union rule of law mission for iraq, eujust lex, have a particular role in monitoring this issue. the european union must now decide to extend the mandate of this mission to include training for iraqi law enforcement and forensic medicine.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's debate is about the situation of the assyrian community in iraq and the problem of torture in iraqi prisons. while individual soldiers of the multinational forces occupying iraq are accused of violating the rights of prisoners, the violence against christians is being escalated by islamic extremists who use blackmail, extortion, attacks on churches and other abuses to threaten the existence of the oldest assyrian group in the land, the chaldean-aramaic-speaking people. the massacres of the assyrian population have been going on for a long time, with 33 isolated massacres since the third century, but they have been particularly intense in recent times. aggression and violence are not the way to solve the difficult problems in this area. violence begets violence, just as aggression begets aggression. i'm not sure that's the case. the situation therefore requires national dialogue, acceptance of religious differences and, as the resolution says, finding and holding to account the perpetrators of violence, facilitating the return of refugees and genuinely helping iraqis to rebuild their country. violence is not a good or far-sighted way to solve problems anywhere in the world. that's why we're calling for respect for human dignity.
mr. chairman, please! the international covenant on civil and political rights provides that no one may be arbitrarily detained and that deprivation of liberty must be carried out in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down by law. so much for the recipe, but what's the reality? it is well known that the conditions of detention in iraqi prisons are in violation of all humanitarian and sanitary requirements. torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment are used. the american authorities boast that they track down any reports of mistreatment of prisoners. the pentagon says that more than 200 soldiers have been disciplined for mistreatment of prisoners in recent years. if we want to transplant democracy into this country, we certainly can't do it with representatives who become torturers instead of helping.
mr. chairman, please! the bulgarian and romanian societies have high hopes for membership of the european union. the commission and parliament documents on the progress of both countries in the accession process show that both countries have put a lot of effort into preparing for their membership. despite the difficulties, they have substantially reformed and continue to reform political and economic systems. however, there has been a growing amount of talk lately, particularly in the context of bulgaria, about deferral of accession, vague safeguard clauses and so-called 'other measures'. bulgaria and romania are struggling with the legacy of communist regimes. they have, like the member states that joined the european union in may 2004, a lot to catch up on in all areas of life. all the more reason not to delay what both countries see as their chance to develop faster. we must not create a europe of the inferior and the superior again. i am in favour of keeping 1 january 2007 as the date for bulgaria and romania to join the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, let me first of all thank you for this very substantive, serious and responsible debate. in my view there is lots of common ground for such a commission recommendation on 16 may that complies with parliament’s views that i have heard today. i will not be able to respond to all your questions now; i have done so on numerous occasions in the last couple of weeks and months, both orally and in written form. i am glad to continue to respond to your letters concerning bulgaria and romania and the progress made in these two countries. let me just sum up the view and position of the commission as regards the accession date and conditions regarding bulgaria and romania. my goal is that both countries could join in january 2007. however, my duty is to ensure that when they join, they truly meet the criteria and join as fully prepared members of the european union. in that regard, the jury is still out, at least until 16 may. i want to add that safeguard clauses and continued monitoring can address certain sectoral shortcomings if need be. we will also outline this in may and, if necessary, specify in greater detail in our october progress report. however, at the same time let me underline that the real critical task for both countries is not to lose any momentum as regards the reforms and their implementation. the essential yardstick will be the progress both countries can still make as regards the reform of the judiciary and their fight against corruption and crime. i fully agree with those who say that this is not a quantitative matter, but the critical thing is that there needs to be a critical mass moving the reforms further so that they become irreversible. for that we need to have clear proof that the structural conditions to fight corruption and organised crime are in place in both countries, because these issues underpin society and the economy in their entirety. in conclusion i can assure you that the commission shall present a fully objective and balanced assessment on 16th may and i can assure you that we make a proposal for a carefully calibrated decision that will maintain the momentum of essential reforms and their implementation on the ground up to and beyond the accession of the two countries. that is our task as the guardian of the treaties and for this i will ask for your support on 16th may and in the coming debate following that report.
i welcome the speech by commissioner rehn on the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu. i would like to emphasise that the polish parliament almost unanimously (with one vote against) supported the decision to admit these countries to the eu. we believe that the enlargement of the union to include new countries will, on the one hand, be an expression of solidarity between the european countries and, on the other, will create new opportunities and prospects for both these countries and the community as a whole. i would like other countries, like poland, to be able to show european solidarity. it is good that the commission is placing high demands on the candidate countries and thus mobilizing them to carry out the remaining reforms that are still needed. however, i hope that the commission will be equally active in encouraging eu member states to be as open as possible to romania and bulgaria in implementing the treaty freedoms and to abandon long periods of derogation in relation to, for example, labour markets. if we set a high ceiling on obligations, we must also allow new countries to enjoy their full rights under the treaties as soon as possible.
madam president! latin america, ever since its discovery, has been a hotbed of imagination and emotion. it's the way it's been, and the way it is now. it's a continent of extraordinary creative inspiration, of painting, of music, of literature, of living and living faith. it is a continent that christians from other continents look to with hope. we, european politicians, also look forward to close cooperation and the use of centuries-old cultural ties for the dynamic development of the continent of latin america and europe in all fields. i would like to turn now to the report by mr salafranca. in his report, salafranca laid the foundations for concrete cooperation, and in essence outlined a global policy, a comprehensive vision of a policy of strengthening economic, security and social ties. the report aims to transfer the european experience in integration to latin america. common structures, common practices, well-functioning bodies and institutions, programmes open to cooperation with europe, joint action with the union to meet the challenges of the modern world. but latin america also has huge problems. poverty, social inequality, inequality of opportunity, social disadvantage, the suffering of the indigenous population of this continent, the lack of infrastructure, the power of drug cartels, gangs of demoralized youth, the marazm latin america should count on the help of the european union to solve all these problems. however, the eu administration in latin america should not be over-extended. the european union must find ways of working together that do not lead to the creation of more and more expensive posts in ever-expanding eu delegations. finally, i would like to mention one more point: cooperation should include a clause on the protection of civil liberties and human rights. latin america is a very sensitive continent in this respect, as its history shows. but today we are witnessing dangerous anti-democratic experiments in venezuela, bolivia and communist cuba. the clause on the protection of civil liberties and human rights must be applied without reservation.
madam president! i would like to thank mr salafrance for his report. i think that out of the 92 points that have been put forward, we should choose those that are in our common interest and implement them quickly. european companies are investing in the region's economy, and the european union is providing financial assistance to address social and economic problems. latin american countries achieved gdp growth of 3.4 percent last year and are a growing market for goods from asia, not the european union. the sale of raw materials from the rich deposits found in the region is being aggressively fought by the economic 'tigers', marginalizing the possibility of cooperation between the union and latin america in this area. taking advantage of the cultural heritage and existing economic links with latin america, an operational programme of economic action based on joint actions and benefits should be developed in addition to the resolution, so as not to lose economically this cooperation. it seems that, in addition to the reports which give a vision of the procedure, it is necessary to revise the working procedures of the union's bodies in order to react quickly to the adverse changes for our citizens resulting from the functioning of the global market.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr gargani, you have a very good point. i would like to begin by answering your question by saying what has been said in the past: the council welcomes the fact that, after lengthy negotiations, it was possible to adopt in july last year a statute for members of the european parliament which will guarantee them equal conditions for the exercise of their mandate from 2009, the next parliamentary term. in a statement on the statute, the council expressed its willingness in principle to examine the question of amending the protocol on the privileges and immunities of members of the european parliament when the statute is adopted. of course the council will honour this willingness, and i stress that the willingness in principle exists, although as we know the statute will not come into force until the next european parliament is elected in 2009. as regards the question of convening an intergovernmental conference, i would first like to point out that the procedure is laid down in article 48 of the treaty on european union and that accordingly the government of any member state or the commission may submit to the council proposals to amend the treaties on which the union is founded. pursuant to paragraph 2 of this provision, a conference of representatives of the governments of the member states shall be convened by the president of the council if the council, after consulting the european parliament and, where appropriate, the commission, delivers an opinion in favour of the convening of such a conference. these are the rules of the treaty on european union. i would like to say that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very important one. i have to say that i am not sure whether it would be appropriate to convene such an intergovernmental conference for the sole purpose of changing the privileges and immunities of members of the european parliament. i must confess that from our point of view it is doubtful that such a conference, which deals only with the privileges and immunities of members, would at the present time help to strengthen public confidence in the european parliament, and would not rather encounter a lack of understanding. the council would also assume, on the basis of the wording of today's question, that the european parliament does not intend to make new proposals on the substance, but confirms the wishes of the last european parliament. it would be important for the further work. as you know, however, it is the prerogative of the representatives of the governments of the member states, meeting in any intergovernmental conference, to decide on the basis of which their debates are to be held. the council presidency cannot, of course, at this stage of the decision, pre-empt an autonomous intergovernmental conference. i wanted to bring these somewhat more general considerations into this debate. the question is not whether the council is willing to honour an undertaking it has made. of course he wants to fulfill it. the question is whether the present is the right time to take such a step for the sole purpose of amending the treaties in respect of privileges and immunities.
mr. chairman, please! we are debating today an amendment to the protocol on the privileges and immunities of members of the european parliament. i think we should focus on working on the amendments to the law on the immunity of members as soon as possible. the situation we have right now is not right. the european union has as many regulations as there are member states. each country has different laws. this is neither in the interests of the principle of equal treatment nor in the interests of the rapid examination of such cases by the legal affairs committee of the european parliament. we should develop a uniform system, common to all members of the european union. such regulations would also prevent the practices that we have seen and continue to see, whereby the ruling teams in individual countries have made unfounded accusations against members as part of the fight against uncomfortable opposition.
mr. chairman, please! on behalf of the people of warsaw, i would like to draw your attention to the matter of plans to build expressways through the urbanized areas of the capital city, the capital of poland. the project involves the construction of transit roads through densely populated residential areas. implementing this plan will put the health of hundreds of thousands of people in this city at risk. the emission of particulate matter, the permissible airborne concentration of which is already exceeded by 50% and even 120%, will be multiplied by several times. other health-destroying agents, such as carbon monoxide, benzene, hydrocarbons, and other chemicals, are also to be considered. the project is based on outdated zoning plans which do not take into account urban development and the creation of new housing estates. that's why the routes run right between the apartment blocks. one of them runs through the mazowiecki landscape park in the wawer district. i would add that this is contrary to the european natura 2000 programme. i hope that in the european parliament there will be people who can take care of the well-being of the natural environment in poland, as well as the health of thousands of citizens in poland.
mr. chairman, please! last november, the european commission presented its new regional policy initiatives jaspers, jeremy and jessica for the first time. these are new assistance instruments, very important especially for the new members of the european union, which are intended to facilitate the absorption of funds in the area of cohesion policy in the years 2007-13. these initiatives have been strongly supported by the european parliament, the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee, which have in turn been promoting these new funding opportunities for regional initiatives. but there is no evidence of a large-scale and effective information campaign for which the commission is responsible. although six months have passed since the first presentation, no brochure or publication on the subject has been found, let alone in the national languages. the information is only sent to the local authorities or businesses directly concerned. there is a lack of publicly available training on this subject. the programmes are intended to start on 1 january 2007. i do not know what the commission is waiting for. it's high time we started a professional and coordinated information campaign.
mr. chairman, please! in the debate on the implementation of the 2004 budget, i would like to draw your attention to a number of issues which i consider important in relation to the control of the implementation of the budget. we have received a very comprehensive report from the european court of auditors. a dozen reports on the implementation of the 2004 budget were also presented in this room. but despite all this material, we still know very little about how the budget was actually implemented and how the funds were spent. this is because, first, the information contained in the court's report is rather general in nature, since the court examines mainly the conformity of accounting records, the so-called 'accounting reality', which, as life shows, often deviates from objective reality. secondly, the court's findings after the audit often fail to answer the most important questions as regards the assessment of the rationality of the implementation of the budget , such as: what is the purpose of the funds, whether the funds actually achieve the objectives pursued, whether there is no abuse in their expenditure and, finally, whether there is no waste of funds. the answers to these questions are essential for the presentation of a factual assessment of the implementation of the budget. the need for such knowledge is demonstrated by the findings of direct audits carried out by the auditors of the european court of auditors on the implementation of the tacis programme. nearly seven billion euro was spent on this programme between 1991 and 2005. the programme was designed to provide financial support to the european union's partner countries in eastern europe and central asia, which are currently in a transition phase. for example, in 2005 these were belarus, georgia, kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, moldova, russia, tajikistan, turkmenistan, ukraine and uzbekistan. the programme was to achieve 29 specific objectives. the court's auditors found that only five had been implemented. if we were to examine most of the programmes financed by the european union budget in the same way, we would be able to determine how rationally and efficiently the eu funds are being spent. however, even this general audit has allowed the european court of auditors to conclude, for the eleventh time in succession, as i would like to emphasise, that the financial statements presented are not free from defects. it therefore seems that the european union needs a comprehensive expenditure control system with a strong involvement of the national control bodies of the member states. only reports prepared under such a system would allow the questions raised above to be answered and the conclusions drawn from such audits could contribute to improving the efficiency of budgetary expenditure in the years to come.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i would like to comment on the issue raised by mr bösch, mr mulder and mr wynn regarding the larger involvement of member states in our overall control and surveillance and audit architecture. the interinstitutional agreement is preliminarily agreed. we now of course will wait; this was agreed between all three institutions. the council will discuss it in the middle of may and it will be obviously signed in the middle of may. that is the official position of the member states’ representatives and the presidency. it has been signed and i have no doubt that there have been very close consultations between member states about this issue. secondly, there are different views in member states, but i am very happy to now use the momentum which was mentioned by mr wynn. i have promoted this idea and discussed the discharge and the integrated control framework several times in the council. i must say that the positive attitude is increasing. in the last council meeting, the ideas were clearly supported by three member states and some of them have also declared their readiness to carry out some kind of pilot project or to start to share the responsibility immediately. so there is definitely an increase in positive attitude. it is more complicated for federal states, but i think we have to work on it; this is a european union where things do not happen suddenly – except bad things. in answer to mr mulder’s question as to what we will do next: next will be the adoption of this interinstitutional agreement, then certain amendments to legislation, and then practical work to use this cooperation between member states. i would like to assure mr bösch this is definitely not a miracle, and these are two separate things. today we met the court of auditors and we definitely felt a certain nervousness – which was also mentioned by mr bösch – among some members of the court of auditors about this. i clearly assure you that there are two separate issues. one is the control, audit and surveillance architecture as a system; another is our mistakes – irregularities which will happen and against which we have to fight. this system of surveillance must be rational and just give answers – are the proper policy-making decisions implemented properly or not? nobody wants to have any derogation as regards the evaluation of efficiency in accordance with the rules of fulfilling our programme. last year we started to introduce understandings that the member states’ participation is extremely substantial and inevitable if we want to increase transparency and improve the handling of european money. we have achieved certain steps and we have move forward. we can be modestly optimistic about it. regarding the accounts mentioned by mrs gräßle, i do not believe – and i have been informed of this by our chief accounting officer – that we have any secret accounts. all accounts are under control; accounts inside the eu and outside the eu have different regimes as regards checking them, but the new accounting system must secure the proper reflection of all the accounts. i cannot imagine that the european union has some accounts which are not known by our surveillance system. thank you very much for your comments. we will see each other soon in similar circumstances in autumn when we start the next discharge, for the 2005.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i have not heard about those reservations, but they will discuss the matter in the middle of may.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr wolf klinz on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the principles of asset management (2006/2037 (ini)) (a6-0106/2006).
member of the commission. mr president, as i have already made clear, the commission welcomes parliament’s report. it is a clear statement of priorities and represents a realistic blueprint for driving forward improvements in european fund markets. it is a powerful reminder that the end goal is to deliver sound and attractive investment propositions to european retail investors. we share the vision of an efficient and innovative fund industry that is attuned to the needs of its traditional retail investor base. we also agree on how best to achieve that: through concrete, sensible, targeted changes based on close contact with the market and informed by a strong commitment to making markets work for the end investor. to touch on the points raised by mrs lulling, we have an existing legislative framework and we will ensure that it is implemented properly. let us build on that rather than tear up the existing rule book. this does not mean that we are settling for second best. there is a lot that we can do through targeted and calibrated adjustments to the existing legislation. this work will have a dual focus. first, we need to give investors the means to make informed choices between the best available products. european investors should not be denied access to technical, complex but sound products that are coming onstream. what matters is the way in which funds are sold to the end investor; that there is effective and comparable disclosure of costs and risks; and that intermediaries respect clear obligations when recommending funds to potential retail clients. in this regard, i take note of the strong message from you on the need for significant improvements to simplify the prospectus. we are already giving some thought as to how we can rectify the failings of the simplified prospectus. our second focus must be on the supply side of the market. we need to look at how we can better use single market opportunities to bring down relatively high costs in the european fund industry. i am pleased to note the broad consensus between the commission and parliament as regards the main bottlenecks to efficiency gains in the industry. parliament’s report confirms the importance of measured but effective action in this field, and the commission will now define the practical steps that are needed. our white paper to be published in early november will define the steps needed to translate our shared ambitions for this important pillar of the financial sector into reality.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m.
the next item is the report drawn up by sophia in 't vel on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy on the sectoral aspect of the state aid action plan for innovation (2006/2044 (ini)) (a6-0073/2006).
member of the commission. mr president, i have enjoyed the debate. better targeted state aid for innovation is indeed a core aspect of our state aid reform programme. the commission will do its utmost to improve framework conditions. we are listening very carefully to stakeholders and your report makes a vital contribution. to put it in dutch: gedane zaken nemen geen keer. that said, next time i will take account of your request in this respect. i would like to respond to a few issues raised in our debate this evening. mrs in 't veld asked why we are suggesting a focus on cooperation between companies and between member states. there are two main reasons: we must encourage this cooperation because it reduces distortions of competition and increases benefits for the community. the second reason is that we must also encourage improvement of the internal market. a couple of speakers mentioned the question of large companies’ eligibility for state aid for innovation, particularly in part of the clusters. i have taken careful note of that. your comments tie in with what we have heard from other stakeholders including ministers at the informal competition council meeting last friday and saturday. i am therefore reflecting on the conditions in which such aid may be appropriate. in fact the working paper prepared by my services already includes the possibility of providing aid to large companies as part of clusters. however, i would like to be clear that if we go down this route there will need to be proper checks and balances to prevent distortion of competition and to ensure that the overall effect, for example the benefits generated by collaboration, is positive. i could not agree more with mr hökmark’s statements. at the end of the day it is competition that makes the climate, not state aid. therefore it is an instrument to foster and to bring into a situation where everyone has an opportunity to make his living in a way in which innovation is involved. globalisation was touched upon as well – by mr casa, mrs ferreira, and mrs harkin. it is true that our state aid control system is unique in the world. so too is our internal market – our greatest european achievement – and the reason we have state aid control in first place. i have heard all too often the argument that our state aid rules could reduce investment into europe as third countries may offer subsidies more liberally than member states. this argument is based on wrong perceptions. as mrs in 't veld and mr casa said, there are other factors influencing inward investment positions. state aid is far down the list. after general and structural criteria, general political climate, general business environment, red tape, regulation, taxation, closeness to customers, availability of labour, a skilled labour force, availability of resources, availability of the infrastructure: at the end of the list there is sometimes the state aid argument. with my responsibilities, i have the opportunity to meet quite a number of managers from the business world and when we touch on this item – what is the main issue for you and your company in taking a decision on location? – the other arguments i have just mentioned are far more important. of course they also add that if there is state aid we will take it, we would be fools if we did not. but it is not the main reason; it is at the end of the list. therefore using state subsidies to safeguard european companies is very costly in economic terms and it is often the poorest parts of society that foot the bill. i am also very wary of arguments that, in the absence of aid, a company will invest outside the eu. this argument presupposes that, if there is an alternative location outside the eu with similar characteristics, the aid will tip the balance. in the absence of such proof, this argument may amount to no more than a bluff. we want real arguments and not bluff. however, i am ready to look further at whether the new framework could include criteria for assessing the effects of aid granted elsewhere. as you are aware, personally i am not a fan of a matching clause. i have to consider it as an option in response to comments i have heard from several stakeholders and i will look at it, but i am personally not in favour of this instrument. mrs ferreira mentioned the regional dimension and the recent regional aid guidelines, which already provide a flexible instrument to address cohesion issues. there could be a reaction and in this context we introduce the possibility of a new category of aid which can be granted to support start-ups in addition to regional investment aid. i am very much in favour of backing and boosting the start-ups because, as i sometimes mention, when you do not need money the bank is interested in giving you money, and if you are interested in money the bank is not interested in you. start-ups in most cases badly need the help of a bank or the guarantee via state aid of obtaining a loan or financial assistance for their activities. enterprise aid allows member states to provide up to eur 2 million per enterprise in article 87(3) regions and up to eur 1 million in article 87(3)(c) regions. the regional bonus for r&d and innovation would actually undermine our cohesion objective and be counterproductive. if a member state makes less use of enterprise aid in assisted regions and favours innovation aid, it might put at risk the emergence and reinforcement of a necessary industrial basis, which is a prerequisite for further regional development. if a member state grants more aid than necessary as an incentive for industry to carry out a given innovation project, it crowds out private investment and may generate undue windfall profits. mrs harkin raised the types of research and development and innovation activity which state subsidies will target. i would remind you that we have deliberately focused on scope rather than content. indeed while we can help focus state aid on certain areas of common interest, it is up to member states themselves to decide a precise project that they would like to support and not for the commission to dictate this. the commission will provide separate notification of the guidelines on aid to environmental protection next year and, in this context, equal innovation will get my full attention. at the end of the day it is only through a positive partnership and a complete range of pro-innovation policies that we will be able to deliver growth in jobs in the european union. thank you for your support, thank you for your valuable contribution to this process, and thank you to mrs in ‘t veld and her shadow rapporteur for their work.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 11 a.m. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
madam president! i wanted to thank the commission for the good initiative. i applaud gary titley's report and his involvement in this whole endeavor. i see the ecall initiative as one of many initiatives to implement the roadmap for reducing accident deaths by 2010. and those speakers are wrong who try to separate ecall from the overall package of projects that the commission and the european parliament are considering. the safety of drivers and passengers is a matter of great importance, particularly from the union's point of view, but also from the point of view of each country. in my country, poland, statistically, about 5,600 people die on the roads every year. every lessened tragedy, every lessened suffering is really worth supporting. among the positive aspects of this project, i also mention the significant reduction in the number of deaths, serious injuries, but also the significant reduction in the external costs of road transport borne by all citizens. i welcome the statement by commissioner reding on the integration of this system with galileo. that would mean that we could use the scale that's been associated with the development of the galileo system. i would very much like to support the elements in gary titley's report which raise the issues of respect for the right of drivers and passengers to privacy. of course, the system should be set up in its entirety, as mr jarzębowski has explained to us all. but i want to draw everyone's attention to the cost. because apart from ecall, we are also considering other projects in parliament, such as the introduction of the euro 5 standard. these factors taken together can be cumulative in terms of the cost of buying a car, and i would therefore like to ask the commission, the parliament and, in particular, the member states and the council of ministers to prepare a decent information campaign to convince the citizens of the european union. it is not worth saving at all costs to equip cars with safety features such as ecall, because the risk of losing lives or significant health loss is not worth this type of savings, but we must adopt solutions that will minimise costs, especially costs for our citizens, as we would like them to buy more and more new cars and replace old ones with new ones.
madam president! i propose that we treat this so-called ecall system not as a closed system which we will put to the vote with specific amendments, but as a rather general idea. we are dealing here with a very valuable parliamentary practice. and that is, when we're not so much trying to make the regulations fit the reality that we have, but rather, when we're trying to create that reality. so in a sense, it's kind of an experiment, and at the experimental stage, you can't predict the outcome of the experiment. i therefore support all the opinions which seek to limit the number of amendments as much as possible. for not writing what practice should write. the ecall system is a very valuable initiative. in saying this, i am fully aware that the other end of this communication chain, namely medical rescue, must function properly in order to reap the full benefits of this initiative. we don't deal with this, but when i think about the shortcomings of the emergency medical services in poland, i can't shake my fears. however, i think that the adoption of the ecall idea by the european parliament can be a kind of important stimulus, not only for my country, to improve the mechanism of action of the emergency medical service. this is a challenge we're gonna have to face. we must meet it, for what is at stake is a priceless thing, namely, human life. we must support all means that can save this life. the ecall system is undoubtedly one of those measures.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. language is the basis of a nation's culture, its survival and development. in addition to its cultural role, it is of major importance for state-building, social and economic matters. it is therefore relevant both in official and in legal circulation in the broad sense. scientific studies indicate that of the several thousand languages spoken by the nations of the world today, half will disappear within the next 100 years. and with them, much of the knowledge accumulated over the centuries. for these reasons, different countries and nations have different systems for protecting their languages. this is done, for example, by means of provisions in the constitution, e.g. in germany, or by separate sejm laws, e.g. in france, poland and slovakia. mr mavrommatis' report is limited to a draft european parliament resolution on promotion, multilingualism and the teaching of foreign languages in the european union and on tests of linguistic competence. it clearly shows a tendency to favour two or five languages, none of which belong to the slavic group, although they are spoken by almost one in four inhabitants of the european union, including polish, which is spoken by several percent of the union's inhabitants. so let's not talk about promoting multilingualism, but rather about the restriction and suppression of the culture of small nations by the culturally dominant nations. let us now talk about the functioning of the european institutions and the competences of officials, including their preparation to fulfil their role in a multilingual europe. the problem of language as an official category is different from that of language as an economic or cultural category. studies and audits show that the laws protecting national languages are widely violated, especially in the new member states. all you have to do is walk into a supermarket and reach for the shelf. it is striking that there is a widespread lack of translation of information on the consumption and use of goods. so, the widespread limitation of multilingualism at the expense of consumers and the profit of businesses. the european union will only have meaning and strength if it is friendly to people and if people live side by side with respect for each other and for their cultural and linguistic differences.
mr. chairman, please! the central european nations know best how important it is to know foreign languages. the berlin wall would have fallen faster if we had learned western languages in the 1960s or 1980s. and even though we weren't prohibited from learning english or french, we weren't motivated enough. this is why the language policy of the european union and individual countries plays such an important role, for they actually impose the learning of a first foreign language on us, for example, between the ages of 6 and 12, and a second language after the age of 12. the two foreign languages are a very good postulate. this will protect us from intellectual limitation, especially in the case of popular languages. the european language competence index is very important because assessments, exams, diplomas motivate, reward work and encourage further development. i do not agree with the proposal to limit the initial phase to the five most widely used or taught languages. let's not delay the launch. polish, for example, is not very popular today, but poland is a big country, which can quickly cause a lot of interest in such a language.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on a major political issue.
mr. chairman, please! last wednesday we received the sad news of the death of our colleague rolandas pavilionis. we have recently worked together on the committee on culture, where he was a member and coordinator of the uen group. we will all remember him for his commitment and dedication to the cause of the people of culture, as well as the openness and kindness he extended to his colleagues. his passing is a great loss. on behalf of my colleagues in the uen group, and also on behalf of all polish mps, i offer my condolences to the family of the deceased.
mr. chairman, please! last week marked the sixty-first anniversary of the end of world war ii. this most tragic war in human history demands our memory. we must build a future in europe together, but the foundation of that future must be a tribute to those who died and a re-enactment of this painful lesson of history. i say this as a pole, remembering that the second world war claimed the lives of six million of my country's citizens: polish and jewish. we should remember them, as we do the many other victims of this historic cataclysm, with the utmost reverence. we live in a europe of difficult challenges, but a europe of peace. this peaceful europe is our common achievement, but we should all the more remember those who have not known happiness and peace. their memory should unite us all in europe.
mr. chairman, please! i call on the members of the european parliament, especially mr poettering, but also on other prominent figures and media terrorists, to stop manipulating, blackmailing and exerting pressure on the democratically elected polish government. in our opinion, to understand solidarity in energy matters as submission and subordination together with the forced adoption of the euro-constitution is an economic and political intimidation all too familiar to poles from the period of soviet occupation. in poland, fortunately, we don't have democracy for the so-called eye, which we experience during the voting in the european parliament. we demand respect for international law, the charter of economic rights and duties adopted by the un in 1974, article 1 of which states: "every state has the sovereign and inalienable right to choose its political, social and cultural system in accordance with the will of its people, without external interference, coercion or threat".
thank you, madam, thank you for our visitors.
mr. chairman, please! two years have passed since the greatest enlargement of the european union. during this period, there have been significant changes in our economic and social area. however, a substantive, holistic assessment of these changes is lacking. it therefore seems appropriate that the european commission should prepare a document assessing the economic and social impact of enlargement for the european union as a whole, as well as for the new countries that joined the eu two years ago.
that concludes the point of the proceedings.
the next item is the report by mrs sylvia-yvonne kaufmann, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the outcome of the review of legislative proposals not considered by the legislator (ini 2005/2214) (a6-0143/2006).
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the better regulation programme is intended to enhance the union's transparency, to ensure its effectiveness and efficiency and to bring it closer to the lisbon strategy. the programme is also intended to respond to complaints that brussels too often uses legislative mechanisms and therefore makes too many laws. the eu's acquis communautaire to date is a ton of documents written in a language that the citizen cannot understand, and which have generally been drawn up without consulting the european social partners and the european citizens. this last complaint suggests that eu law is made without the involvement of those for whom we - the european parliament - work and represent, that is, without the involvement of citizens. what can be done to change this image, to bring the european union closer to the citizen, now that it is in a constitutional crisis? it seems that the withdrawal of these 68 bills is a step in the right direction, but is it a sufficient step for better legislation? it doesn't seem to be enough. it seems that in order to make better legislation, we need better institutional cooperation between the commission and parliament. we need these two institutions to have special groups within their structures that are sensitive to the creation of better law, that are such a conscience, a legislative barometer that warns if one of the institutions falls into a bureaucratic rut and acts against these principles, against the code of good eu legislation. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the legislative process is based on the principle of subsidiarity, and is designed to ensure that the legislative process is transparent, proportionate and predictable. parliament and the commission must have confidence in each other, they must respect each other, they must treat each other as full partners with full respect and trust. only then will the law be better, only then will we be able to make it together for the good of the citizens.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the joint debate on - recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on nutrition and health claims made on foods [09858/3/2005 - c6-0018/2006 - 2003/0165 (cod) ] (rapporteur: adriana poli bortone) (a6-0122/2006) and- recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the addition of vitamins and minerals and of certain other substances to foods [09858/3/2005 - c6-0018/2006 - 2003/0165 (cod) ] (rapporteur: adriana poli bortone) (a6-0122/2006) and- draft report on the second reading on the council common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the addition of vitamins and minerals and of certain other substances to foods [09858/37/2005 - c6-0017/06 (cod) ] (a7-026/2006) (director: karele schein) (special rapporteur) (co)
mr. chairman, please! i want to thank you for bringing this up. the regulation on nutrition and health claims made on foods and the regulation on the addition of vitamins and minerals and certain other substances to foods are important for consumer protection. they give consumers the opportunity to make informed purchasing decisions on many food products. they create better conditions for fair competition among producers and suppliers of foodstuffs to our market. they will allow you to eat better, which will translate into better fitness and health. the adoption of these regulations will, in my view, be a step in the right direction.
mr. chairman, please! i believe that mr maat's report is reaching the european parliament at a time when there is a genuine expectation that the problem of eels in europe will be solved. the world's cod cod cod catch is estimated at around 200 tonnes. in recent years, however, the catch of this fish has been declining. in 2004, it was only 130 tonnes, and a year later it was only 75 tonnes. the decline in catches has led to a rapid rise in the price of cod, from eur 300 to eur 400 in the mid-1990s to eur 1200 in 2005. as a result, eels were simply unprofitable in europe. the countries with the least access to free cod resources are particularly vulnerable, including most of the baltic states. this is known to be due to the limited migration of the eel from marine to inland waters. the lack of fish in these countries forces them to import fishing gear. however, they face an increasing financial barrier, caused by the rising price of fish in europe. the new baltic states in the european union are being forced to pay huge export prices for this fish to asian countries. in this context, there is a strong call for a system to ensure that the costs of protecting eel stocks are fairly shared by all stakeholders - including, of course, eel exporters and importers.
mr. chairman, please! i think the commissioner prefers hockey to cricket, and i'm inclined to agree with the commissioner on that. i think that plan d is not about democracy, to be honest, but about a deficit of democracy, not about dialogue, but about a lack of dialogue, and not about real debate, but about a seeming discussion. the european commission, which insists that plan d is not an operation to save the european constitution, reminds me of the soviet tass agency, which always denied that there are no disasters and no poverty in the soviet union. in fact, the state is comparing the apparent actions so that it can wait a while and get to the adoption of the constitution - probably in the same form - in a few years. but if the commission really, really wanted to put in place a real plan d, its first decision would be to propose constitutional referendums in those countries where the eu constitution was adopted by parliamentary decisions, often by acclamation. in the meantime, only four countries out of a dozen have held referendums, and in two of these countries the constitution was approved, and in two it was rejected, which shows that there is a real debate in the societies, but no real debate in the structures of the european union. the european commission should finally stop being like the chorus in a chinese opera, which sings 'run, run' in three acts, but does not move at all. commissioner wallström has a chance to do more than just conduct a choir.
mr. chairman, please! it is with great pleasure that i thank the commission in the hands of mr barrot, vice-president and commissioner. thank you very much for this proposal, thank you very much for the initiative, thank you very much for your speech confirming these good trends. i would like to congratulate mr racek on his work, because we have received a document which can make a significant contribution to a more efficient use of transport infrastructure by actively promoting intermodal solutions. we know very well that in the eu budget, including the 2007-2013 budget, we receive much less money for transport than we wanted to receive. the better the solutions for using existing infrastructure, the better. i would also like to stress the historic moment we are at: in an enlarged european union, perhaps with two new countries on 1 january 2007. we therefore have a chance to bring the new member states into this new shape of the european transport and logistics system. in the new countries, it is very important to maintain the role of the railways. finally, i am pleased that we see an opportunity for new jobs for small and medium-sized enterprises and that we are moving towards the sustainability of industrial and spatial transport.
mr. chairman, please! this is just a heads-up for the ppe-de colleagues, because there were some minor problems with the first amendment. first of all, we didn't have time to discuss it in committee. secondly, both in the polish version and in other language versions, the name of jerzy buzek appears among the authors of this amendment, which is not true. however, i would ask you to vote for this amendment different from what is on our ballot, and for the whole report in the second vote.
mr. chairman, please! every time we discuss enlargement, we touch on the historical dimension of our work. each enlargement is not only a protocol celebration for the union, but also an opportunity and a necessity. the major problem with enlargement is its external image, since it is easy to calculate the cost of aid transfers to new, usually poorer countries. but the picture is very incomplete. it doesn't show the huge injection of trade, investment, modernization opportunities that enlargement brings. without enlargement, we would not be able to boast today that we as a parliament are one address for 450 million citizens. we would be 75 million fewer, that's how much less europe would be in the global game we are so eager to play today. the biggest political lie being told in europe today by failed politicians who have failed at home is to blame the enlargement process for all the problems we face. it's the other way around. the consequences of non-reform would be more severe if there were no enlargement. that is why i am enthusiastic about the prospect of the accession to the european union of new member states, bulgaria and romania, which have made a great effort in recent years to reform their state life. as a member from poland - a country that has borrowed so much from the union's aid policy in recent years - i am looking forward to the prospect of these two new countries joining, even though we will soon have to share the union's dwindling budget. the commission has also been asked to take account of the fact that the council has not yet adopted the draft treaty on european union, which is to be incorporated into the treaty of amsterdam, and that the council has not yet adopted the draft treaty on european union. perhaps political emotions are what prevent a rational assessment of the new polish government, but one must be careful with emotions, mr. cohn-bendit, because one can say many stupid things. sometimes it seems that the doors of the union are closing like the doors of an elevator, and the next passengers are struggling to fit in. i hope that this is an illusion or a temporary failure of the elevator called the european union, because i do not wish anyone to travel in an elevator whose doors do not open.
mr. chairman, please! when i was 18, i took part in one of the longest student strikes in eastern europe. it was in poland during the period of "solidarity". i remember the posters we used to hang on the walls of my college: "it's forbidden to forbid". today we could put a poster like this on the european commission building: 'it is forbidden to prevent romania and bulgaria from joining the european union as soon as possible'. yes, that poster "it's forbidden to forbid" was a reference to the student revolt in may 1968 in paris. i was already aware of the role played by my colleague in the european parliament today, mr cohn-bendit, in this revolution. for many of us, cohn-bendit was that kind of robin hood of the day. robin hood is not to be killed. i had no idea that after a quarter of a century robin hood could commit political suicide by the nonsense he uttered in this room today. mr cohn-bendit did not speak of the great effort of the romanian and bulgarian peoples who want to meet the criteria for membership of the european union. he didn't pay much attention to the actions of the governments of both countries to that extent. he used this debate as a pretext to talk nonsense about my country, poland. if i were him, i would focus on racism and anti-semitism in germany and france - countries he knows well - or on social problems in france, for example. these are real threats to europe, not the political fiction that mr cohn-bendit has been so gracious to present here today. it is good that romania and bulgaria will join the union in 2007 i hope so. let us not build a new iron curtain for these countries, a new berlin wall. they didn't deserve this. let us make sure that they meet the criteria for membership of the union, but let us not unfairly impose a penalty. consider the great efforts of the people and governments of both countries in this regard. that is what i am calling on the european commission to do.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to say first of all that mr olli rehn's report and his work deserve a very special distinction, especially in the context of the parliamentary debate. i would not like the clear conclusions which emerge from the report to be altered by the course of the parliamentary debate. romania and bulgaria have done what they could have done so far, they have fulfilled what the european union demanded, that is, they have introduced the rules of the game, both economic and political and social, the rule of law, and now both the european union and the people of both countries will have to account for this. i think it's very important to highlight the great progress that has been made in both of these countries, which allows us to say that they are entering the european union with a firm footing. countries like mine have shown (since 1 may 2004) how to join the european union, and i think the fact that this is a success for both the old and the new countries convinces all those who do not yet believe in it. the fact that the uk had the not only generosity but also the reason to immediately open its labour markets to people from eastern europe, means that now, apart from germany and austria mr elmar brok has forgotten many other european countries have followed this path. i would say that it is extremely important to be able to show at some point that you trust the rules of the game that are being put in place and then to be accountable for that. poland is an example of how the introduction of the rules that the copenhagen criteria set out is a good sign, and then you have to be able to implement them after joining the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the preparations for bulgaria and romania's membership of the european union come at a time of european crisis, which is compounded by, among other things, a rise in populist and anti-immigration sentiment. according to the latest eurobarometer survey, around 53% of europeans perceive the enlargement process with indifference, fear, irritation or frustration. at the same time, we must remember that according to these studies, the majority, about 55%, still has a positive attitude towards enlargement. bulgaria and romania must not become victims of the european crisis. we can't raise the bar for membership because of the electorate's feelings. we should not ask bulgaria and romania to do more or less than the other countries that have participated in the accession process in other years. the balanced report presented today by president barroso and commissioner rehn should be welcomed. the european union wishes to maintain its commitments regarding the accession of bulgaria and romania on 1 january 2007. at the same time, in order not to delay the date of accession, both countries should fulfil all the conditions resulting from accession to the european union. at the same time, i would like to express my admiration for the efforts of the bulgarian and romanian societies on their way to joining the european union, for the work and dedication of judges, prosecutors, teachers, politicians, journalists and civil society activists in recent months. i want to express my confidence that this effort will result in bulgaria and romania joining the european union next year.
mr. chairman, please! as for the criteria that the two countries have to meet, everything has already been said here. i wanted to draw attention to three other aspects. first, let's remember that it took a long time to build normalcy in western europe, despite democracy and substantial u.s. aid. secondly, the union has decided to accept these two countries and has set a date, and i think that is a binding commitment for such a serious institution. thirdly, have we as the union done enough to help these countries meet these standards? if bulgaria and romania were in the pacific today, we could wait for the criteria, but because they are in europe, we cannot be indifferent. there must be action by the commission, the council and parliament. i don't see it any other way. i would also like to add that bulgaria and romania belong naturally to europe, they are a natural member of europe, part of this organism, and our common commitment is to integrate these two countries into one common body. i have been brief and i have saved time, so i would like to say to our colleague cohn-bendit at the end, who has been so passionate about the polish government that he also had the opportunity to judge his chancellor, who has represented a country that has been a member of this union for many years, how he behaved just before he left office?
mr. chairman, please! i represent poland, which is a young member of the european union. the memory of the great work done by our country: citizens, but also politicians and the administration, in order to adapt to the demanding standards of the european union, is still fresh in our country. i can therefore appreciate the enormous reform efforts of bulgaria and romania in preparation for integration. in this context, i believe that the european commission should not delay in deciding the date of accession of these two countries to the community. in a show of solidarity and appreciation for the enormous work done by both countries, the deadline of 1 january 2007 will be respected as the date of accession. the fact that this date has been retained is all the more important because the amendment could be seen as an attempt to block or even reject the candidacies of both countries, especially since it is precisely within the union that we have recently witnessed protectionist tendencies or a tendency to close ourselves off to the benefits of the common market and the genuine free movement of persons and services. i am aware of the shortcomings which the european commission rightly points out in its report. however, i believe that the best way to overcome these shortcomings is for the european union, the commission to put pressure on the bulgarian and romanian governments to resolve all doubts and all problems within the next six months. i am firmly convinced that the stable and clear prospect of accession to the union is the best motivation for bulgaria and romania to make an extra effort and to fulfil all the accession criteria. i am also convinced that just as the enlargement of the 10 countries two years ago proved to be a political and economic success, so too will the accession of bulgaria and romania on 1 january 2007.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. the recent threat of bse was caused by profit-driven, unnatural farming methods, including the feeding of meat-and-bone meal to ruminants and the mechanical separation of meat, which, containing bone fragments and fragments of spinal cord and other nerve tissue, facilitated the infection with prions that are harmful to humans and animals. the current solutions have the advantages of prevention, various tests and the return to traditional feeding, but the risk of fish meal for ruminants remains. if it were not for the previous trends in poland, all animals would be raised using natural feed and meat would be separated by traditional methods. fortunately, our agriculture is still organic, where many innovations have not been implemented for economic reasons. we are critical of the excessive expansion of phytosanitary administration, the unnecessary multiplication of programs, as well as the strange compromises that are stimulated by financial lobbies, which increase costs and increase the risk of pathology not only of spongiform encephalopathy.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. the state of public finances has a significant impact on economic growth, employment, macroeconomic stability and is an important determinant of the health of the single european currency. the treaty on european union therefore clearly states that developments in the public finance situation in the member states are of interest to the union institutions, including the european parliament. in the exercise of its treaty powers, the european parliament shall once again assess the situation of public finances in the european union and adopt a report thereon. the main message of this year's report is that public finances in most member states are still in an unbalanced state and that this situation has not improved substantially since last year. this requires continued efforts to restore fiscal consolidation. the aggregate deficit of the 25 member states in the european union rose to 2.7% of gdp in 2005 and in the euro area to 2.9% of gdp. as a result, the public debt-to-gdp ratio has been rising steadily for several years and exceeded 70% in the euro area at the end of 2005. since 2003, 11 member states of the european union have had deficits above 3% of gdp and 10 have been subject to the excessive deficit procedure. and what is particularly worrying is that the four largest economies in the european union are among the countries that are not budgetary disciplined: germany, france, the united kingdom and italy. this situation clearly shows that some member states are having serious difficulties in rebalancing public finances, and lack the political will and determination to make the necessary changes. this situation also shows that the preventive and corrective procedures of the stability and growth pact have been ineffective so far. one of the main reasons for this unfavourable budgetary situation is the persistently low rate of economic growth in europe. the lack of necessary structural reforms, growing international competition, and uncertainty about employment prospects and future demand have for many years caused europe to develop more slowly than other regions of the world. policies have not been able to change this situation. expansionary fiscal policies and restrictive monetary policies created an inadequate policy mix and hampered economic growth. the situation is aggravated by the lack of adequate fiscal policy coordination within the euro area. such coordination is essential to enhance the effectiveness of economic policies and to maintain confidence in the single currency, which requires synchronisation in the conduct of fiscal reforms and the avoidance of fiscal imbalances. the underlying stagnation trends in europe are the lack of progress in structural reforms in many member states, including in particular the lack of action to make labour markets more flexible, increase labour force participation, remove barriers in the services market, promote innovation and support entrepreneurship. in this context, the slow progress in implementing the lisbon strategy is of particular concern. madam president! in the report we propose a number of actions to improve the public finances. first, strict and rigorous compliance with the fiscal rules laid down in the revised stability and growth pact is necessary. this will help restore the credibility of the pact and strengthen its disciplinary role. we call for structural action to be accelerated, including in particular the firm implementation of the lisbon strategy. we also propose to take measures to streamline fiscal procedures, increase coordination and improve the effectiveness of fiscal policies. we ask the european commission to analyse the impact that increased fiscal policy coordination could have on economic growth in the union. we recommend improving the quality of fiscal statistics, introducing transparent rules for the valuation of assets and future pension liabilities, taking account of the business cycle in the deficit assessment and extending the budgetary planning horizon to two years. we propose that the principle be adopted that the budgetary structure in the member states is based on a uniform set of macroeconomic assumptions, which could be derived from the european commission. finally, we recommend action to strengthen the incentives for fiscal reform by member states, including through public reporting on the risks of fiscal imbalances. these actions are necessary if fiscal and budgetary policies are to contribute to accelerating economic growth and employment in the european union. the european parliament should send a clear and explicit political signal on this issue. i therefore ask the members to support the report.
madam president! public finance is crucial for economic growth, job creation and macroeconomic stability. the maastricht treaty made it clear that the development of public finances in the member states of the european union should be closely monitored at european union level. the main and important point of this year's report is the unstable budgetary situation of most member states. the countries subject to the excessive deficit procedure included the four largest economies of the european union: france, germany, italy and the united kingdom. the root causes of the difficulties are the continuing slow growth rate in europe and the lack of structural reforms to strengthen public finances for the future. the pace of economic growth in the european union is much slower than its potential would suggest, and much slower than that of other world economic powers such as the united states, japan, china and india. the reason for this is also the low level of domestic demand, the uncertainty about the maintenance of jobs, social security, salaries, pensions. high energy prices, instability in fuel markets and persistent current account surpluses in most asian countries have undermined the confidence of many companies in europe. loose fiscal policies have proved ineffective and have not put our economies on the path to growth. rising debt ratios are a major problem, especially for long-term fiscal stability, across the union. the implementation of the lisbon strategy, launched in 2000, was intended to provide a comprehensive reform agenda. in view of all these problems, i believe that decisive steps should be taken to increase the effectiveness of preventive and corrective measures to strengthen and consolidate public finances.
madam president! in taking part in the debate on the report by mr rosati on public finances, i would like to draw your attention to the following points. first, the recovery of public finances cannot be an end in itself but a means to promote high growth and job creation. secondly, the measures taken by the member states of the european union in this area are unfortunately not producing satisfactory results, as reflected in the falling gdp growth rate from 2.4% in 2004 to 1.5% of gdp in 2005, and in the euro area this fall is even more pronounced: from 2.1% to 1.3% with a persistently high unemployment rate of around 9%. these indicators confirm that the european union is not only not catching up with the united states and other developed countries of the world, but is clearly losing it. it should be added that gdp growth in the united states in 2005 was 3.5%, more than twice that of the european union. third, low economic growth and persistent high unemployment are hampering the substantial reduction of the budget deficit and public debt. in the european union of 25 countries, the budget deficit fell from 3% of gdp in 2003 to 2,6% of gdp in 2004, and in the euro area from 3% to 2,7%, but public debt even increased: from 61,4% in 2002 to 64,1% in 2005, and in the euro area from 69,2% to 71,7%. fourthly, the above data show that the level of budget deficits, and in particular public debt, is clearly higher in the old than in the new member states, and unfortunately the european commission's warnings and recommendations are mainly directed at the latter. finally, fifth, the new member states are undertaking very difficult reforms, including major changes to pension systems. despite the transition from a budgetary system to a capital system - for example in poland - the european commission (eurostat) wants to treat subsidies to this system as budgetary expenditure increasing the budget deficit, and therefore, in essence, wants to punish these countries for deep reforms of the public finance system. i would like to oppose strongly such practices of treating difficult reforms in the new member states, especially in poland.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as far as the new financial perspective is concerned, there is undoubtedly good news and bad news. the good news is that we have overcome a 10-month deadlock in the negotiations and that the eu's multiannual financial planning is now well under way. the good news is that this base is €4 billion higher than the council's proposal. the bad news is that net payers continue to constrain the union's development through spending cuts. it should always be borne in mind that the union's national income is projected to increase by around 15% and union expenditure by 2% over the seven-year period 2007-13. the good news is that expenditure on the lisbon strategy has been increased by €2.5 billion, but the bad news is that it is expected to be just €74 billion, compared with €371 billion for agricultural and natural resources policy and €308 billion for cohesion. while it is apparently good that the budget implementation review is scheduled for the end of 2009, it is bad that the timing of the review is so early, which may be acceptable in the new member states where the absorption of eu funds may not yet reach the target level. the review can therefore be seen both as an attempt to discipline the budget and as an additional basis for cuts. so it's good that we have a new financial perspective, it's bad that there's not that much economic solidarity and a willingness to meet external challenges. the interest of the union as a whole would require greater generosity on the part of the net payers, who would also benefit from a higher rate of growth of the beneficiaries on balance. the competitiveness of the union will not be improved by defending an outdated social model and expensive jobs. in this respect, it is useless to blame the new member states, the enlargement of the union. the union's economic problems run much deeper. not to mention the political problems arising from unfair and irresponsible comments made about the governments of some member states. if, out of the blue, a recent admirer of mao tse-tung, who is not here at the moment, attacks the polish government as fascist, he is undoubtedly referring to the communist propaganda which destroyed pluralism and democracy and by fascism understood everything that is not stalinism.
mr. chairman, please! the final agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-13 coincided with the second anniversary of the enlargement of the european union and thus constituted a birthday present. it is also a vital proof that the union is working with 25 countries, proof in a field where compromises are difficult because the differences are sharply defined and measurable in money. the financial agreement and the agreement on principles leave us here in parliament with the uncertainty that we have sufficient resources to meet the stated political objectives of the european union. this uncertainty borders on the certainty that some of the limits to be agreed during these seven years will have to be revised upwards, especially in order to meet the european union's ambitions on the international stage. it is good that the budget's flexibility and responsiveness have been increased, that we have increased access to european investment bank loans and that some funds (the solidarity fund, the globalisation fund, the emergency aid reserve) have been moved beyond the financial perspective. what is the lesson of this experience? namely, there should not be such a big difference between the starting positions of the european commission, parliament and council, because with such a big difference, amounting to billions of euros, some figures become abstract, especially if savings are later sought where the budget was to be modified, and the rural development fund can be the proof and symbol of this. the budget needs change, but it does not need revolution, the budget cannot be a substitute for repairing the european union, public spending will not replace the deep reforms needed to make the union competitive. thank you to all who participated in this successfully completed endeavor.
mr. chairman, please! can the union be competitive if it creates regulations that weaken it? and these regulations are being created in almost every field. they prevent new members from making up the distance to the rich. instead of creating a strong european union in accordance with the treaties, decisions are being taken that perpetuate the division of the union into two parts, more rich and less poor. look closely at the figures in the budgets after the last enlargement - what a huge disparity and discrimination of new members! these disparities are contrary to common sense and also harm the interests of the old members of the union. this is stated in the latest report of the centre for european reform. it indicates that the old countries would benefit more if the new countries received more support. that would stimulate the economy and the market, and a bigger market means bigger profits and bigger profits. the narrow interests of the old union threaten the cohesion of the european union as a whole. we will not win the future of europe if this policy continues.
mr. chairman, please! in taking part in the debate on the reports by mr reimer böge and mr sérgio sousa pinto on the budgetary procedure and the financial perspective for the period 2007-13, i would like to draw attention to the following points. first, despite the satisfaction of having adopted the financial perspective for 2007-13, it should be stressed that setting the overall level of payments at 1% of the european union's gdp is a response to the expectations of the most developed countries in the union, rather than a solution to the challenges facing europe in the 21st century. it will be very difficult, if at all possible, to achieve enlargement, faster growth and deeper integration with less money than before. secondly, as the representative of the new member state poland , i would like to express my concern about the continuous attempts to allocate the financial resources envisaged for the financial perspective 2007-2013 in such a way that the flow of funds to the old member states is as abundant as possible for as long as possible. thirdly, i would also like to express my conviction that the enlargement of the european union, and in particular the accession of romania and bulgaria, which will require additional financial resources of at least a dozen or so billion euros per year, will not lead to a reduction in the funding of the regional policy and the common agricultural policy in the ten countries that joined the union in 2004. fourthly, i hope that the work on the draft regulations to allow the appropriations envisaged in the financial perspective to be spent will be carried out with sufficient efficiency to ensure that 2007 is not a lost year, especially for regional development policy.
mr. chairman, please! the interinstitutional agreement proposes a revision of the financial framework for the period 2008/2009. it is a step in the right direction, but only if the european parliament is involved, and under the best possible conditions. the next point is that the future financial framework should be established for a period of five years. each successive parliament and commission must have a say on the financial priorities of their term of office. this is particularly important for us, for parliament, because it is the members who make the financial decisions on behalf of the citizens of the european union and are then accountable for them. it is therefore good that the european constitution is seeking to change this. in article 402, it proposes that the multiannual financial framework be established for a period of i quote at least five years. in conclusion, i would like to say that we all want a financial system that is fair to the old and new members of the european union, a system that is transparent and gives the union the chance to pursue its objectives with its own resources rather than with the financial contribution of the member states. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
mr. chairman, please! the european union has suffered several significant setbacks in recent times, the most significant of which was the failure of some countries to accept the constitutional treaty. the consequences of this fact are felt more and more painfully. hasn't that taught us anything? shouldn't a period of reflection make us look more closely at our union? judging by the financial perspective we discussed today, that's not what happened. despite the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement, which we know is the best possible, we have a lack of understanding of the needs of the union by the council of the european union. we're citizens of the same country, and we have such different views on our needs. would statesmen representing our countries want to make political capital on financial constraints? did they achieve that? judging by some, no, but it does make one wonder whether this financial outlook, which is unsatisfactory for either side, will be as painful in two years as the lack of a constitutional treaty?
mr. chairman, please! the new financial perspective is a compromise. is that a good compromise? some of the earlier proposals were undoubtedly better for europe and its future. financially, the european union is not as big as it could be if we could agree to a bigger budget. there is a polish proverb: "if you don't have what you like, you like what you have". today, that compromise seems to have been a success. however, whether it will also be seen as a success in the future will only be known after 2013. then we will have to look at the degree of eu cohesion, the level of competitiveness of the european economy, the unemployment rate, the state of education and research. it is difficult to reach a consensus on the main budgetary priorities. i am convinced that a practical solidarity, expressed in cohesion policy, is an important dimension of european solidarity. the quality of the implementation of this financial perspective will determine whether the eu's largest enlargement, which took place in 2004, is fully exploited and completed. i hope that this is what will happen, that no one will have any doubt that the return of the 10 countries to the european family was right and beneficial not only for them but for all europeans. europe will be bigger and stronger at relatively low cost.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to add the following to the existing text of amendment 10: ‘while fully respecting the stability and growth pact’. in other words, the new text of amendment 10 would read: ‘encourages the use of the cyclically adjusted deficit concept in national budgetary procedures in order to reduce cyclicality, while fully respecting the stability and growth pact;’.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's human rights policy should shape the european neighbourhood policy and become an effective tool in the contemporary global civilisation for the defence of people threatened by genocide and war crimes, for the defence of people fighting for democracy and fundamental freedoms, for the defence of all those who are discriminated against on grounds of ethnicity, religion, gender, disability or sexual orientation. human rights policy cannot apply double standards - one for small states and one for states of strategic importance to the european union. this policy should be effective. in this context, the european initiative for democracy and human rights and the increase in the budget of this institution are of particular importance. the european parliament must take responsibility for raising the profile of human rights protection in the european union, it must become a forum for new initiatives in this field and a coordinating body for human rights action in the various eu institutions.
mr. chairman, please! during the last british presidency, the eu intervened diplomatically in 26 individual human rights cases and issued 49 declarations on the subject. it is very good that we in the european parliament devote so much time to the issue of human rights protection in a broad sense. during each session in strasbourg, cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law are debated. but we cannot discuss the situation in africa or asia without mentioning the eu countries. this is a problem for many of them, especially the new ones. so let us care and fight for human rights in the world, but let us keep our eyes and ears open and remember that right next door, in the neighboring country, they are not always respected. i speak with full conviction as a practicing lawyer, having seen the clear signs of it.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to three aspects of mr richard hewitt's report. first, the european union should have a functioning financial instrument, like the american foundations, to support human rights defenders around the world. support should be given to those organisations and associations which, often operating illegally, build and fight for democracy, freedom of expression and respect for fundamental rights. the eu institutions, meanwhile, have been debating for the past year the creation of a new agency - the fundamental rights agency - to look after the respect of these rights, but only in the eu countries. in this context, i would quote article 56 of the report: 'parliament calls on the commission to give serious consideration to the position of the european parliament, which believes that a specific instrument for human rights should be established for the years 2007 to 2013, and expects to receive a communication from the commission on this matter.' secondly, it is reprehensible that the european union refused to support the resolution on chechnya at the 61st session of the un commission on human rights, where crimes are being committed by the russian army, where between 3 and 5 thousand chechens were killed without a trace: unarmed civilians detained by the russians. the rapporteur rightly says in his report that this position of the european union suggests that the union applies different rules to small countries and different ones to large ones. the third aspect i wanted to highlight is the critical situation of christians living in islamic countries. the situation has escalated in recent months. the war in iraq, and the outrage caused by the publication of the cartoons in european newspapers, pose a continuing threat to the christian minority in the islamic world.
member of the commission. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i would say that it is natural that parliament should demand more from the other institutions and, naturally, i listened very carefully to the speeches. i believe that criticism is necessary if we are to make progress. but i have also noted in mr howitt's report, as in this debate, some positive aspects of our policy, for which i thank you again. in a field such as the promotion and protection of human rights, the balance sheet is naturally mixed. i'd like to share with you my analysis of the situation. firstly, is the union a major player in this area, a player that counts and is counted on? my answer is yes, without a doubt. we all have evidence of that constantly. our partners, whether state or non-state, states or international organisations, continue to look to us and see us as a major player, sometimes even indispensable, because of our political credibility, influence, expertise and the instruments we have. secondly, does the union have the right tools to carry out its action? my answer is yes. we have international instruments at our disposal in the framework of the united nations and the council of europe, to name but a few. we have the framework of our bilateral agreements, which have been widely cited, with the human rights clauses, as well as common political guidelines in many sectors, political dialogues, all kinds of approaches. we have the financial, geographical and thematic instruments, too. thirdly, are our contributions and actions sufficient? i would say no, particularly if the question of our action is posed in global terms. but if we look at specific situations, such as the adoption of the resolution establishing the new human rights council or situations relating to very specific cases of countries and individuals, there are many cases where we have made a difference. in any case, the union, including the member states, is certainly the most important actor with its contributions and actions at the global level, an actor that is really very present, even if we are not always as visible as we would like or as you would like. finally, are we effective in our human rights policy? are we having an impact? i would like, as does parliament, to see us become more effective and more effective. to do this we should make a qualitative leap, especially in terms of consistency. the european union's policy is consistent with that of the individual member states, and the union's political will is consistent with national interests, which are actually manifested at key moments in certain bilateral relations. and we need to better reconcile, in some cases, our multilateral agenda with the bilateral agenda. we also need to mobilise all the institutions of the union, including, of course, the european parliament. as i have said before, we are absolutely in favour of a report drawn up jointly by the three institutions. let us work toward that! parliament can indeed count on me. i'm not sparing myself or my staff. you can count on us for the evaluation, but also for the implementation of human rights policy, even if we too are often faced with a political reality that is not easy to manage. but if we want to improve the impact of our policy, in particular by making our actions more coherent between the european and national levels and between the various institutions, then i think that parliament's annual report, like mr howitt's, must inspire our actions.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. like commissioner ferrero-waldner, i am pleased to conclude this debate by saying that we all agree that the three institutions of the european union must speak with one voice to the outside world in order to be effective. the debate has touched on a great many subjects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the answer to that question is always 'no', we can still do more. we must all be able to do this at all times - parliament, the commission and the council - because when it comes to human rights, when people are tortured, when human rights are trampled underfoot - and this is the case in many countries - it means that we who defend human rights are not doing enough. so we have to keep thinking about how we can improve. the debate has helped us to think about this very issue. a number of issues have been raised. i would just like to touch on a few points very briefly. the importance of civil society, particularly in the field of human rights, has rightly been stressed. the state institutions and governments are particularly dependent on the cooperation of civil society and non-governmental organisations. i think, for example, of the experience of the eu-latin america-caribbean summit in recent days, and here too there has been a strong signal from civil society, particularly in the field of human rights, and governments, but also parliamentarians, must take this signal very seriously. in the field of development cooperation, the question of human rights, the question of good governance, is playing an increasingly important role. i think we can all agree - i have seen this in my discussions with the development cooperation committee - that the targeted promotion of good governance and human rights is a very important aspect of development cooperation. mr romeva i rueda has rightly mentioned the issue of violence against women. i would like to point out that the austrian presidency, ursula plassnik, is particularly concerned with this issue. mr coveney said that the council and parliament should not duplicate each other's work. i fully agree with that. of course we must respect each institution's individual role. that is what the three institutions must do. however, at the same time, we must cooperate where necessary in order to be more efficient. mr agnoletto and others have raised the human rights clauses and the question of whether the european union, the council and the commission actually apply these human rights clauses, which exist in a number of treaties, or whether we are merely pursuing a real policy, so to speak. i would like to say that i think the human rights clauses are very important. they are not just clauses providing for sanctions or the suspension of contracts. they are, above all, and this seems to me to be the essential reason for dialogue with the states. we are also making use of the right to dialogue which the human rights clauses in the various treaties give us. we do this whether we are talking about large or small countries. i can only agree with mr vaidere: we all hope that the human rights council will become more efficient than the commission on human rights. that is why the european union has taken such action. i would ask you not to throw the gun in the air and say, 'if i look at who has been elected, it cannot get any better'. we must be realistic about this, while remaining true to our principles. i believe that the chances are ultimately quite intact that this human rights council will become an effective instrument. mr salafranca and others have stressed the role of the european union in the world, including in the context of the accession negotiations, including in relation to the balkan states. i would like to remind you that the copenhagen criteria remain the most important precondition for opening accession negotiations with states, and that the question of respect for human rights is a very important criterion even before the opening of accession negotiations and must of course also be in the course of negotiations. mrs lynne talked about trafficking in human beings. i fully agree that this issue is very important. i would just like to mention that the european union is cooperating closely in this respect with the osce, which is very active in this field. we should continue this cooperation and, again, there should be no duplication but rather a synergy effect. mrs lynne and others spoke about the question of human rights in the european union. of course there are human rights violations in all european union countries, including my own. however, what makes the european union different from other regions in the world is that we have effective instruments to deal with human rights violations. all the member states of the european union are therefore members of the council of europe and signatories to the convention on human rights. there is the unique instrument of the human rights court in strasbourg, and within the european union we also have the necessary mechanisms and instruments to take care of any violations. we should not confuse the situation within the european union with that in other states where such instruments do not exist. i fully agree with mrs esteves and others that there should be no double standards and that the credibility of the european union is the most important thing. that is why i reject all allegations that we distinguish between small and large countries. i do not think we treat one country differently from another, which is important. so, assuming i have understood the report correctly, i thank you all very much for the support the council's policy has received. let us continue to defend human rights everywhere in the world and let us do so together.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on - the second report by mr gaya mitchell, on behalf of the committee on development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation and economic cooperation (com (2004) 0629 - c6-0128/2004 - 2004/0220 (cod)) (a6-0109/2006), - the report by mr konrad szymanski, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down general provisions on the european judicial and partnership instrument (com (2004) 0628 - c6-0129/2004 - 2004/0219 (cod)) (a6-0164/2006), - the report by mr angelika beervá, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an instrument for financing development cooperation and economic cooperation (com (2004) 0629 - c6-0128/2004 - 2004/0220 (cod)) (com (2004) 0226-0154)), - the report by mr sns, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a stability instrument (com (2004) - c6-0151515152-06-06-064) - c6-0226-06-06-06-06-07) - c6-07-07-07) on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and the council establishing an instrument for stability instrument for stability and stability (com (2004) (com (2004) (com (2004) 05-06-06-06-06-06-06)
member of the commission. mr president, i greatly appreciate that parliament has decided to discuss together the package of instruments for the delivery of external assistance for the future period spanning 2007 to 2013. it is over a year and a half since the commission tabled its proposals. i wish to acknowledge the efforts that have been made by parliament and successive council presidencies to find imaginative and constructive solutions to the challenges that we have encountered on these innovative proposals. the new simplified architecture was the first attempt to streamline all the instruments for external spending. the simplification proposed was welcomed by both parliament and the council. and soon after parliament began its work, a certain number of important questions were raised. these matters were set out in a letter in april last year from the chairman of the foreign affairs committee, mr brok, and the rapporteur for the development cooperation and economic cooperation instrument, mr mitchell. there were six issues in total and on these i believe parliament has obtained full satisfaction. your first concern was to ensure that the instruments were adopted under codecision whenever the treaty made that possible. in response, the council and the commission agreed that the stability instrument should pass from consultation of parliament to codecision. three of the four instruments are codecided. this gives parliament a fully legitimate but unprecedented degree of legislative power over the framework covering external spending. parliament also wished to ensure that the instruments would be subject to a mid-term review and to expiry dates. these points were accepted. we have also agreed that before undertaking the review, parliament should examine the operation of this instrument to identify any dysfunctional situations that may have arisen, and parliament’s report would be considered by the commission in carrying out the review of the instrument. should the review identify problems that require an adaptation of the relevant instruments and regulations, the commission will submit the necessary legislative proposals. that review should be carried out in 2009, as requested by parliament. parliament also wanted separate financial envelopes for different geographic regions and thematic sectors. the commission has provided a breakdown of the envelopes for the codecided instruments and agrees to the inclusion of a breakdown in the regulations. one of the most challenging points has been the involvement of parliament in priority-setting and strategy documents. so far as priority-setting is concerned, the necessary policy elements will be included in the draft regulations. this has been done both for the stability instrument and for the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. unfortunately, the progress achieved on these instruments has not yet been mirrored in the development cooperation and economic cooperation instrument. parliament’s future involvement in strategy documents is now covered by two declarations annexed to the interinstitutional agreement. i have written to mr brok on how these could be put into practice. we envisage a mechanism for a dialogue with parliament, which should allow us then to present the selected strategy documents, explain our choices and receive parliament’s view on the choices and how the strategy should be implemented. finally, for the development cooperation and economic cooperation instrument, parliament wished to have a clear distinction between policy towards developing countries and towards industrialised countries. we have no difficulty in accepting that. there has been a strong demand from parliament for a separate instrument to support democracy and human rights. in january 2006, the commission set out its vision for the thematic programme on democracy and human rights. i recognise that parliament is not convinced on this. i have listened to parliament and i understand its reasons. i am committed, therefore, to resolving this point to the satisfaction of parliament as part of an overall agreement on the instruments. this is a clear commitment on behalf of the commission to a separate human rights instrument. this position is shared by the council. i should now like to say a few words on each of the instruments that are before this house today. the instrument for pre-accession assistance – the ipa – has been welcomed by parliament for its policy-driven approach. there has been a fruitful dialogue on the proposed regulation with parliament’s rapporteur, mr szent-iványi. indeed, a compromise text for ipa, addressing a number of issues of concern to parliament, was agreed by coreper on 3 may. the commission fully supports this compromise, which reflects to a large extent the amendments proposed by mr szent-iványi in his report. i am pleased to make a formal declaration today, which i hope will also solve the major outstanding issue of parliament’s involvement in the suspension of assistance: ‘the commission will take due account of any request made by the european parliament to the commission to submit a proposal to suspend or restore community assistance, and will provide a prompt and sufficiently detailed reply thereto’. for the stability instrument, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mrs beer, for the central and positive role she has played in the negotiations to date, which have touched on sensitive institutional issues. the report from the committee on foreign affairs has had a very positive impact on the political compromise reached in coreper, for which i thank you. that compromise is very finely balanced. i believe it will form the basis of a deal between the institutions. reflecting concerns of parliament, we have also agreed more policy content under the stability instrument. there are strengthened references to respect for human rights in relation to the fight against terrorism. the commission is ready to make a political declaration further underlining this and confirming its commitment to informing parliament of exceptional assistance measures as they are adopted. i shall be writing to you shortly setting out some ideas on the establishment of a peace-building partnership to improve practical implementation of civilian peace-building projects. for the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, we have worked intensively with mr szymánski, parliament’s rapporteur, and the presidency. as a result, we now have a text which addresses the concerns of parliament. an agreement on this text was reached in coreper last week and we are very hopeful that, on this basis, an agreement is now within reach. for the development cooperation and economic cooperation instrument, work is not as advanced as for the other instruments. i am convinced that the main building blocks of a compromise are, however, within reach. thanks to the cogent arguments of the rapporteur, mr mitchell, it is agreed that the new legislative set-up must preserve parliament’s codecision rights. it is now a question of the best way to do it. the commission is calling for pragmatism, given our shared objective of achieving genuine simplification of external assistance. in more concrete terms, let me come to the main amendments proposed in mr mitchell’s report. given their total number, i will concentrate on those that relate to the architecture of the instrument. first of all, a series of amendments – amendments 48, 50, 51, 54, 55, 56, 65, 66 and 67 – propose to establish separate policy-setting regulations and a multiannual financial framework to be adopted by codecision in addition to the dceci. this alternative to the incorporation of policy content and financial provisions into the regulation goes against the objective of simplification. the commission is more than willing to expand the geographic and thematic policy content of the dceci to preserve parliament’s rights. we have said so on several occasions. however, we consider that the best way to achieve this is to follow the council presidency’s proposal and to do it in a single regulation. secondly, three amendments – amendments 4, 23 and 114 – reflect one of the general points made by parliament which i referred to earlier: the continuation of an instrument in favour of human rights and democracy. thirdly, five amendments – amendments 1, 5, 6, 23 and 115 – build on the initial request to establish a clear distinction between cooperation with industrialised countries and cooperation with developing countries. they actually go further and propose the splitting of cooperation with industrialised countries from the dceci. the commission understands the underlying concern behind these amendments. the commission could consider, for instance – if this is a condition for a final compromise on a clear and logical structure – the splitting of cooperation with industrialised countries into a separate instrument. fourthly, three amendments – amendments 2, 25 and 26 – call for a change in the legal basis, that is, a single legal basis, article 179, without article 181a of the treaty. i know legal advice differs on this. for the commission, the issue is one of legal security. the commission also understands parliament’s argument that a wide understanding of development cooperation should offer the necessary comfort. i would be ready to re-consider our position if a wide definition of development cooperation based on article 179 is ensured. fifth, one amendment – amendment 51 on sectoral spending targets – is of particular concern. this is the establishment of sectoral spending targets. this would run contrary to the principles of partnership and ownership with beneficiary countries and it would introduce rigidity in programme implementation. there are also a number of other amendments that would need to be discussed in more depth. a document has been submitted to parliament setting out the commission’s position on each of the amendments commission’s position on amendments by parliament in the mitchell report: see annex.. i do not want to give the impression that our positions are far apart on all these issues. out of 117 amendments, the commission can accept 26 in full and 40 in part or in principle. this means that half of the amendments are totally uncontroversial. finally, i should like to say a few words on nuclear safety. this has been an important part of our past work and will remain so. originally included within the stability instrument, the change in the legal basis made it necessary to create a separate instrument for nuclear safety cooperation. i understand that the draft text has now been sent by the council to parliament to allow you to begin preparing your opinion. i should like to finish by saying a few words on the way forward. there are grounds for optimism that agreement could be found on the text of two of the codecided instruments: the stability instrument and the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. similarly, i hope that the declaration i made concerning the pre-accession instrument is sufficient to allow parliament to give its opinion. what now of the development cooperation and economic cooperation instrument? this is a key element in the architecture. this instrument covers assistance to asia, latin america and south africa, as well as key thematic programmes. it is central to the package and too important to be left behind. i am convinced that we can do what needs to be done to ensure that the complete legislative framework is in place before the end of the year. the presidency has already done considerable work on the policy content of the dceci. there will be a window of opportunity following parliament’s first reading to reach a consensus on the key issues of substance before the adoption of the council’s common position. this could cover some limited changes in the architecture, which would not undermine the principle of simplification and the essential policy provisions. the consensus reached would be reflected in the council’s common position, which the council presidency hopes to adopt in june. this would greatly facilitate a timely agreement on second reading. finally, the provision of effective assistance to our partners from 1 june 2007 onwards is a shared responsibility. with the agreement on the financial perspective and the advances made on this legislative package, i am convinced we are within striking distance of achieving that goal.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think we have reason for some optimism today, particularly as regards the financial perspective and the various instruments, and we had the opportunity this morning to sign an important document. they have accepted an important compromise by a very large majority, and i also believe that the commissioner's speech just now gives cause for optimism. i hope that i, as a representative of the council, will be able to contribute to this general optimism. much of what the commissioner said is also in line with the views of the council. we are also pulling together here and hope that we will be able to bring these important instruments, which are the subject of our debate today, under control very soon. the cooperation over the last few weeks has not been easy, but it has been constructive and has shown how much the interests of the institutions are ultimately in line. i would also like to thank the council for this cooperation, which has been hard but constructive. we have succeeded in reaching agreement on the substance of three of the four instruments, namely the instrument for pre-accession, the neighbourhood instrument and the instrument for stability, through this cooperation, already at the first reading of parliament. this is not a matter of course, given the complexity of the subject, and it is a huge step forward. i would also like to remind you once again - the commissioner has already done this - that for each of these instruments the council has adopted a number of amendments, not the least important ones. this applies not only to acts subject to the co-decision procedure but also to the instrument for prior accession, which is subject to the consultation procedure. i do not want to hide the fact that the package now before us was very controversial in the council and that it was only with great effort and thanks to the great commitment of the council president in coreper that it was able to be passed by a number of delegations. i should now like to comment briefly on the individual instruments. the european union has a long history of cooperation with the countries of central and eastern europe, and the european union has a long history of cooperation with the countries of central and eastern europe. in the neighbourhood instrument - and here i would also like to thank mr szymański for the very constructive cooperation - we are pleased to note that we have reached a broad consensus. as a representative of the council, i think i can say that we have met almost all the demands of parliament. we have made the instrument more flexible, we have removed the limitation of eligible priorities, we have strengthened the conditionality of cooperation and made it clear that international agreements, especially on human rights, must be respected. i am reminded of the debate we had earlier on this subject. we have also made it clear that we consider the role of civil society to be very important and that we want to support and promote it. as regards crossborder cooperation, we have established the principle of partnership and have also stressed the need to involve the regions, as parliament has called for. the stability instrument - and here i am also thanking mrs beer for her presence - is, as you know, a particularly sensitive instrument which also requires a great deal of tact. it is in a grey area between the first and second pillars, and this raises - as we in the council are also happy to admit - serious institutional questions. we have made a good deal of progress, however, and the council has endeavoured to meet parliament's expectations on a number of issues. we have responded to parliament's wish to provide not only for the consultation procedure but also for the codecision procedure. we have succeeded in meeting parliament's wish for a broad scope of application in the context of difficult negotiations. the commissioner has already mentioned this. the current constitution also provides for activities in the fields of disarmament, improved crisis prevention, crisis management, mediation and measures to take into account the situation of women and children in crisis situations. these are all demands which we have just called for and supported in the previous debate in the context of the coherence of european human rights policy. the commission has also been asked to provide the council with a report on the implementation of the european union's action plan against terrorism. i think i can say on behalf of the council that this was a good result. the pre-accession instrument - and i thank mr szent-iványi here - is, by its very nature, a particularly important instrument. i do not need to explain how important it is for the austrian presidency and its priorities in this area, because it is linked to the future development of the european union. it was therefore important for the council to negotiate with the european parliament on the substance of the act and, as with the other instruments i have mentioned, to take parliament's concerns into account here too, even though we are not in the field of codecision with this instrument. for example, we have increased the emphasis on gender and social cohesion and increased access to programmes for potential candidates. we have also taken into account parliament's request to be involved in strategic matters such as the suspension of ipa funds. our common objective is the full operational capacity of the european union in the whole field of foreign policy, which, however, despite this very welcome progress, has not yet been achieved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this must now be the common objective of the council, parliament and the commission. we must take this objective seriously. i should like to take this opportunity to explain in detail once again why we must complete this process and the draft regulations in question as quickly as possible. as regards the neighbourhood and stability instruments, the predecessor regulations expire at the end of this year. we must succeed in securing a solution here, otherwise we risk not being able to finance cooperation with the neighbourhood countries, which should be of particular concern to us, from next year onwards. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial instruments. the preaccession instrument still needs to be implemented by a substantial implementing regulation, otherwise the hard-won financial resources cannot be used. the vote in parliament should therefore take place in june at the latest. we don't want a funding gap here. i would therefore like to appeal to you all on behalf of the council not to jeopardize the timely conclusion of the instruments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council has shown its willingness to address the main concerns of this house. i hope that is common knowledge. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this seems to me to be a very important concern of parliament. the commissioner has already mentioned parliament's request to create an additional instrument in the field of human rights, and we in the council are also sympathetic to this. in order to preserve parliament's full co-decision rights, the council would have been prepared for some time to negotiate in detail and jointly formulate the main elements of the geographical and thematic programmes with this house, as was the case with the other instruments. as you can see, the council is prepared to meet this house and its concerns for a good part of the way. i must also make one thing clear: the development cooperation and economic cooperation instruments must not be further diluted. to break it down into even more components would simply lead to the absurdity of our aim of simplifying the overall structure of the european union's external assistance. it would be the exact opposite of what we have set out to do under the heading of better regulation. the commissioner has already said this, and i would like to emphasize it very strongly on behalf of the council. the council therefore regrets that, despite the willingness to negotiate and despite the willingness to make a whole series of concessions, it has not yet been possible to find a solution for this instrument, as for the other three. we have no doubt that the european parliament, like the council, is keen to catch up as quickly as possible. it would be incomprehensible, especially for the poorest countries of the world, to have to pay the bill for an interinstitutional dispute. i hope that we will be able to find a solution so that we are not in a legal vacuum after 1 january 2007. we must not put this work on hold, and i want to make one thing quite clear in conclusion - the commissioner has also said this before: the council needs this agreement to be able to bring the other three instruments to a final conclusion. we believe that the concessions we have made in the preaccession, neighbourhood and stability instruments and the willingness to consider a separate human rights instrument are inseparable from an agreement on the development and economic cooperation instrument. this is a very important point, and the commission and the council are in complete agreement on this. we need a package solution, and we are counting on the willingness to compromise and the good will of parliament. we owe this not only to our partners but also, in the final analysis, to the european public, which expects us to find solutions and is interested and sympathetic to nothing less than interinstitutional disputes and would certainly be disappointed if, from january 2007, we were unable to implement our external aid to the extent that we all have set out to do.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. if someone in parliament wanted to use the good cop/bad cop approach to the commission and the council, it would be hard to find a better method than to schedule guy mitchell and myself to speak one after the other. when the european commission presented its package in 2004, one thing was uncontroversial, one thing was universally praised simplification. simplification is a great advantage of the whole package presented in 2004 because it makes it easier for outsiders to use our legal bases for external aid. however, in the parliament's clear view, this simplification cannot be at the expense of impoverishing the political objectives of our external aid, nor at the expense of parliament's control. that's why i've made 124 amendments to my report to the foreign affairs committee. i would like to say that, thanks to the work and commitment of the responsible persons in the political groups, such as charles tannock, luisa morgantini, pasqualina napoletano, bastiaan belder, paavo väyrynen, without the involvement of the secretariat of the committee on foreign affairs and also of the political group to which i belong, it would not have been possible for us to have such a clear negotiating position today. i would also say that without the enormous commitment and dedication of the austrian presidency, with ambassador woschnagg at its head, without the involvement of commissioner ferrero-waldner and without the involvement of mr elmar brok, who as chairman of the committee on foreign affairs leads our negotiating team, we could not today realistically think of adopting this instrument at first reading, which is absolutely very important. we must remember that already at the end of the year our existing legal bases, meda and tacis, the main instruments of neighbourhood and partnership assistance, expire. we should give our external partners as much time as possible to prepare for this huge, big change in the legal basis for external aid. we have made a great deal of progress in the course of the months of work of this parliament, which lasted 18 months. first, we have broadened the range of policy objectives of the instruments for financing neighbourhood and partnership policies, and introduced clauses that make aid conditional on respect for human rights and democratic standards. we have introduced changes that will allow the use of the neighbourhood policy towards countries that avoid cooperation with the european union, such as belarus. we have secured the place of the european economic area and switzerland in the implementation of the neighbourhood policy, the possibility for these countries to participate in the implementation of the neighbourhood policy in the european union. despite the - i would say - state nature of the neighbourhood policy, we have increased the role of ngos. today, after the commissioner and the minister have spoken, we can say that we have, through interinstitutional agreements, a guarantee of a new separate instrument for human rights and democracy, which would be flexible enough to pursue our objectives in a legally and politically hostile environment, and we know that we often encounter such situations. everything indicates today that we will be able to find a compromise on the main issue, namely the european parliament's control role, both in terms of the programming and implementation of the neighbourhood policy. of course, any compromise, and i am aware that this compromise is also a big deal for parliament, but i will recommend that it be accepted, because everyone who participates in a compromise must take into account the fact that this compromise will give the satisfaction of closing the great process, but it will also be a little big deal somewhere in the background. i'm sure this compromise is overwhelming for all of us, but surely the most important emotion is the satisfaction of being able to reach an agreement. i hope that this agreement will be possible before the summer break and, most importantly, before the end of the austrian presidency, because the hard work of this presidency means that the austrian presidency has worked hard for this success. needless to say, our neighbors to the east and south are very much looking forward to seeing our work completed. to all of you who have had a hand in this finalization, i want to thank you all again.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs were naturally interested in standardising and simplifying the procedure for integrated border management, migration, asylum policy, the prevention of crime and trafficking in human beings, while promoting the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and good administration, as provided for in the neighbourhood and partnership instrument. it is impossible to work together to fight crime or to build border infrastructure if the funds allocated for this purpose are drowned in a sea of corruption or incompetence. i would therefore like to stress that we in the libe committee expect practical support for the fight against crime and trafficking in human beings to go hand in hand with support for the independence of the judiciary, good administration and civil liberties. this is necessary to ensure that the balance between costs and benefits, demands and benefits, is balanced so that our neighbours have a sense not only of imposed obligations but of values that they believe they need, autonomously necessary for a better, safer life.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on foreign trade. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am very pleased that the commissioner sees the economic cooperation instrument as an important instrument, and i see nothing wrong with it being co-decision, if it is not already co-decision. as the inta committee's opinion-giver on the instrument for pre-accession assistance, i want to say that we want to help candidates with cross-border activities in the field of market economy, ngos, implementation of wto rules and all academic exchanges. we also make a strong demand that the commission submits annual reports to parliament so that we know where the money has been spent, so that in a few years' time there is no sense of regret that it has gone somewhere and we do not know whether or not this aid has actually been given to the candidates for our union.
madam president! in expressing my appreciation to mr konrad szymański, the rapporteur, and to the other rapporteurs, i shall only focus on certain matters relating to the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. today we are talking about an instrument which is one of the instruments for creating the union's neighbourhood and partnership relations with the outside world. but is the appropriation of just 1.5% of the union's expenditure, as i understand it, sufficient? with this money, will we really be able to contribute to the expansion of democracy, to the respect of human rights, to the building of a civil society? in this approach, particular attention should be paid to the objectivity of the allocation criteria. implementing legislation will also be important. we don't have much time. it is good that russia is mentioned in recital 9. it is a pity that there was no clear emphasis on ukraine. in conclusion, this financial instrument represents an opportunity for the european union, which represents less than 7% of the world's population, to contribute to global stability and security and to poverty reduction. it will be to our common benefit, it will be a european added value.
president-in-office of the council. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to say that it is indeed a pleasure for me to participate in this debate on a question that i consider very important, because in the eyes of the council the subject matter is very important. i was not invited to feast on asparagus tonight, so my destiny is an easier one than yours; but as a permanent representative of austria to the council of europe i had the pleasure for five years to be invited to those feasts. with your permission, mr president, and with my apologies to mr chichester, i shall continue in german; but i hope that i will be able to give comprehensive answers to the questions that were put to the council. herr präsident, herr kommissar, meine sehr geehrten damen und herren! der rat hält den vertrag zur gründung der energiegemeinschaft zwischen der europäischen gemeinschaft und den ländern südosteuropas in der tat für ein wichtiges instrument, und zwar aus gründen, die evident sind: sicherheit der strom- und erdgasversorgung für die europäische gemeinschaft und auch für die vertragsparteien in der region. dieses thema ist dem österreichischen vorsitz mit einiger dramatik schon nach wenigen stunden im jänner bewusst geworden, als am 1. jänner um 8 uhr morgens die gasversorgung nicht nur der ukraine und moldaus, sondern auch in mitteleuropa gesperrt wurde. damals wurde uns die dramatik der situation allen sehr bewusst. wie der ausschuss sehr zutreffend feststellt, besteht eines der ziele dieses vertrags darin, den energiemarkt der europäischen gemeinschaft auf die länder der region auszudehnen, indem diese den gemeinschaftlichen besitzstand in den bereichen energie, umweltschutz, wettbewerb und erneuerbare energien übernehmen. dies erscheint mir im sinne der homogenität und der kohärenz einer gesamteuropäischen strategie von besonderer bedeutung. der charakter des energiegemeinschaftsvertrags zeichnet sich daher durch die tatsache aus, dass die umsetzung der einschlägigen vorschriften des gemeinschaftsrechts einen der wichtigsten aspekte der arbeit der gremien, die in dem vertrag vorgesehen sind, darstellt. gemäß artikel 25 dieses vertrags ist ferner vorgesehen, dass in übereinstimmung mit der entwicklung des rechts der europäischen gemeinschaft maßnahmen zur änderung des gemeinschaftlichen besitzstandes getroffen werden können. diese dynamische verweisung erscheint mir ebenfalls von großer bedeutung. der rat möchte unterstreichen, dass dies natürlich bedeutet, dass das europäische parlament von beginn an direkt beteiligt ist, wenn gemeinschaftsvorschriften ausgearbeitet und im mitentscheidungsverfahren von unseren beiden institutionen angenommen werden. es sind also vorschriften, die sodann in den rahmen des energiegemeinschaftsvertrages zu übernehmen sind. die bedeutung der rolle des europäischen parlaments bei der annahme des vertrags zur gründung der energiegemeinschaft spiegelt sich auch in der wahl der rechtsgrundlage wider, d.h. in der tatsache, das das europäische parlament über ein zustimmungsrecht verfügt, wie es in artikel 300 absatz 3 des vertrags zur gründung der europäischen gemeinschaft zum ausdruck kommt. es handelt sich also nicht nur um ein recht auf konsultation. die änderung, die der rat an dem von der kommission vorgeschlagenen beschluss über den abschluss des energiegemeinschaftsvertrages vorgenommen hat und auf die der abgeordnete chichester in seiner anfrage bezug nimmt, betrifft die rolle des europäischen parlaments bei der beschlussfassung. in der tat hat der rat absatz 3 von artikel 5 des vorschlags gestrichen, in dem das verfahren der konsultation vorgesehen war. es ist allerdings darauf hinzuweisen, dass die anhörung des europäischen parlaments nach dem kommissionsvorschlag nur in einem einzigen spezifischen fall vorgesehen war, nämlich im falle der festlegung von standpunkten der europäischen gemeinschaften zu beschlüssen, die von der energiegemeinschaft gemäß artikel 100 ziffer (iii) des energiegemeinschaftsvertrags zu fassen sind, das heißt beschlüsse über die ausdehnung dieses vertrags auf weitere energieerzeugnisse und energieträger oder andere wesentliche netzinfrastrukturen. mit anderen worten: gemäß dem kommissionsvorschlag würde die kommission dem rat einen entwurf für die festlegung eines standpunkts der gemeinschaft zu einer solchen änderung des energiegemeinschaftsvertrags unterbreiten, und der rat hätte sodann das europäische parlament zu diesem standpunkt zu hören. hierbei würde es sich jedoch um ein nicht im eg-vertrag vorgesehenes verfahren handeln, dass daher zu den verfahren des vertrags hinzukäme und somit das im vertrag vorgesehene institutionelle gleichgewicht veränderte. im eg-vertrag, nämlich in artikel 300 absatz 2 unterabsatz 3 ist stattdessen vorgesehen, dass das europäische parlament unverzüglich und umfassend zu unterrichten ist. aber auch wenn im eg-vertrag eine ex-ante-unterrichtung des parlaments nicht vorgesehen ist, wenn etwa der vorhin beschriebene fall eintreten sollte, z.b. die ausdehnung des energiegemeinschaftsvertrages – das betrifft die streichung –, so wird der vorsitz des parlaments regelmäßig über alle wichtigen aspekte des beabsichtigten standpunkts des rates unterrichten. ich bemerke in diesem zusammenhang, dass die mitglieder des ausschusses für industrie, forschung und energie sich daran erinnern werden, dass die letzten ratsvorsitze, die mit dieser frage befasst waren, das parlament im rahmen ihrer ausführungen vor diesem ausschuss über den sachstand in bezug auf den energiegemeinschaftsvertrag unterrichtet haben. ich möchte sie ferner darauf aufmerksam machen, dass in bestimmten fällen, insbesondere wenn dies aus gründen der politischen bedeutung erforderlich ist, der rat nicht daran gehindert ist, das europäische parlament freiwillig anzuhören. es sei auch darauf hingewiesen, dass mit dem energiegemeinschaftsvertrag hauptsächlich der besitzstand der gemeinschaft ausgeweitet wird, an dessen annahme das parlament ja umfassend beteiligt ist. lassen sie mich nun zum beschlussfassungsprozess in den gremien der energiegemeinschaft und zu dem von der europäischen gemeinschaft in diesen gremien einzunehmenden standpunkten kommen. wie sie wissen, besteht der institutionelle rahmen der energiegemeinschaft aus dem ministerrat, der ständigen hochrangigen gruppe und dem regulierungsausschuss. an dem mit den parteien des energiegemeinschaftsvertrags vereinbarten beschlussfassungsverfahren ist das europäische parlament nicht unmittelbar beteiligt. in artikel 52 dieses vertrags ist jedoch vorgesehen, dass der ministerrat dem europäischen parlament sowie den nationalen parlamenten der vertragsparteien jährlich einen bericht über die tätigkeiten der energiegemeinschaft vorzulegen hat. was den von der europäischen gemeinschaft in diesen gremien zu vertretenden standpunkt anbelangt, so wird dieser standpunkt gemäß artikel 4 des entwurfs eines beschlusses des rates über den abschluss des energiegemeinschaftsvertrags festgelegt und vom rat gemäß den einschlägigen bestimmungen des eg-vertrags angenommen. ein wichtiger aspekt dieses beschlussfassungsprozesses ist das erfordernis, dass die standpunkte der europäischen gemeinschaft zu beschlüssen der energiegemeinschaft, die unter die titel iii und iv des energiegemeinschaftsvertrags fallen, mit dem gemeinschaftlichen besitzstand im einklang stehen müssen. ausgenommen hiervon sind maßnahmen im rahmen des kapitels iv des titels iv des genannten vertrags, das die gegenseitige unterstützung bei unterbrechung der energieversorgung betrifft. was nun die beteiligung des europäischen parlaments anbelangt, so ist in absatz 5 von artikel 4 des entwurfs eines beschlusses des rates wie von der kommission vorgeschlagen festgelegt, dass das europäische parlament unverzüglich und vollständig über alle beschlüsse des rates zur festlegung von in den drei gremien des energiegemeinschaftsvertrags zu vertretenden gemeinschaftsstandpunkten zu unterrichten ist. eine ex-ante-unterrichtung des europäischen parlaments ist nicht förmlich festgelegt, jedoch hat der vorsitz die feste absicht, das parlament regelmäßig zu unterrichten. die kommission wird aufgefordert werden, dies ebenfalls zu tun. hinzu kommt – und dies wird der rat berücksichtigen –, dass der standpunkt, den das europäische parlament nach seiner unterrichtung einnimmt, sicherlich die künftige entscheidungsfindung der europäischen gemeinschaft beeinflussen wird. herr präsident! ich hoffe, dass mit diesen ausführungen nicht nur die fragen des verehrten abgeordneten beantwortet sind, sondern dass auch die sorge, dass das parlament nicht gebührend eingebunden ist, zerstreut werden konnten. ich kann jedenfalls im namen des rates noch einmal betonen, dass es uns wichtig ist, dass das europäische parlament selbstverständlich nicht nur in allen fragen, in denen es verfassungsmäßig einzubinden ist, sondern auch in allen fragen, die das funktionieren dieses vertrags betreffen, regelmäßig informiert und eingebunden wird.
member of the commission. mr president, before answering the questions put to me, i would like to start by explaining the global approach towards the energy community. we know, and there is some consensus, that the two main routes for enhancing energy security in the european union are diversification and the strengthening of market forces. extensions of the eu’s own market to include our neighbours would gradually create around the eu a shared regulatory area with common trade, transit and environmental rules. in this context, i thank you for giving me the opportunity to present a successful initiative in the region of south-east europe. it is not only because of its needs that the european union acted in this area. the disintegration of the former yugoslav energy system has brought havoc to the regional market, by breaking electricity connections, disrupting trade routes and forcing the system to work – on a chronic basis – far beyond its capacity. on the other hand, industrial decline and population shifts have made demand much more capricious and more varied, so the technical challenges of keeping the system alive were preventing development and a fresh start. indeed, some european union aid was being used to buy electricity and fuel oil for immediate consumption. such a situation could not go on. apart from these immediate needs, the commission made a strategic decision to look at the long-term needs, to gather international consensus for a way forward and create a real basis for post-war cooperation in the region. today, i can present to the european parliament the results of our joint work. it is valuable to the stabilisation and economic development of these countries. within ten years we have gone from war to cooperative management of the most essential sector of the economy: energy. along the way we have faced difficulties and sometimes scepticism. and i have to thank parliament for assisting us in overcoming these difficulties. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr chichester, and the shadow rapporteurs. the issues we have been discussing are not only related to investments. we have also addressed environmental and social issues in our debate. so the creation of the energy community for south-east europe clearly responds to the needs of the region and of the whole eu. let me now turn to the question. firstly, the energy community treaty provides for a procedure ensuring cooperation and mutual assistance of the parties in the event of disruption of gas or electricity supply affecting a party. this is quite an important clause. one example is the recent gas crisis between russia and ukraine, but also, for instance, the blackout in italy in 2003, which demonstrated the need for solidarity among european countries, and the importance and the benefits that such a solidarity clause could have in the energy sector. i would also recall that this winter serbia’s gas supplies were cut off for quite a considerable time. pursuant to the draft conclusion decision, the positions that can be taken by the european community under title iv of the energy community treaty, providing for the creation of a single energy market between the european community and the countries of south-east europe and containing the mutual assistance clause, have to be inspired by the existing acquis communautaire. as mutual assistance may not be fully covered by the existing acquis – and in some cases our acquis is perhaps not ambitious enough – it was important to introduce some flexibility to this limitation as regards the mutual assistance clause. the reference to specific circumstances allows for this flexibility. it will, ultimately, be up to the council to decide by qualified majority, whether or not the specific circumstances are met on a case-by-case basis. in my view, this concerns situations of extreme gravity and extreme disruption. of course any measure concerning the mutual assistance clause will have to remain within the external competence of the european community. let me highlight, in that regard, that decisions of the energy community on mutual assistance have to be taken by unanimity so that the european community will have a veto on all decisions to be adopted. secondly, let me stress that, through its proposal to the council, the commission has steadily acted in favour of an increased role of parliament as regards the ratification of the energy community treaty. in this regard, once the treaty has entered into force, i consider it of utmost importance that parliament be fully informed in advance of important decisions to be adopted by the energy community. to this effect, parliament will be informed in advance of each semi-annual ministerial council of the european energy community. i have also instructed my services to ensure that parliament is informed in advance of the european community position to be taken before the institutions of the energy community on important issues and that it has full access to the energy community’s documents. there are no restrictions on official documents of the energy community and all policy documents are placed on the energy community website. these documents are accessible to all those who have an interest in them. in addition, as provided for in the treaty, the energy community’s ministerial council will, on an annual basis, submit a report on the activities of the energy community to the european parliament and all other national parliaments involved, as the president-in-office mentioned. in line with the proposed conclusion decisions, the commission will further submit to parliament, every three years, a report on the energy community. i hope that my answers to the questions are satisfactory. i would also like to mention the issues referred to by the honourable member with regard to kozloduy, because i would like to separate this issue from the energy community treaty. the energy chapter with bulgaria was closed in 2002 and both sides have agreed to close that chapter on the basis that units 3 and 4 of kozloduy will be closed on the grounds of safety requirements. that means we have provided aid for bulgaria to deal with this situation. so i would not make a connection between these two issues, because the decisions have been taken by mutual understanding and we have done quite substantial work to help bulgaria deal with the consequences of the closure of units 3 and 4 of the kozloduy power station.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you for giving what i believe are comprehensive answers, but we need to analyze them now to get a clear picture of what this case is all about. of course, there is a need for mutual information. i would like to thank the commissioner for his very active cooperation with parliament. today, after the january conflict, we know that energy security is not just a problem for individual eu countries and not just for the eu as a whole. a pan-european approach is needed. the energy community treaty is the right step along this path. it provides for an integrated gas and energy market in parts of europe, encourages investment and increases the security of gas supply to the union. but the treaty also requires that investment decisions be shifted from the national to the central level, as this is more efficient, both in terms of costs and bureaucracy. so the treaty is a good thing. it shows that energy security requires a new approach also to the eu's foreign policy. it is a good legal instrument for regulating energy relations also with ukraine, which intends to accede to the treaty. the european parliament has repeatedly stressed the importance of secure energy supplies based on harmonious cooperation between the member states, which requires the legislative solutions announced by the commission earlier this year. such cooperation is necessary both within the european union and with third countries, so as not to prejudice the interests of individual countries and not to exclude any member state from the proposed solutions.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we finished preparing the new financial perspective at noon today, and tonight we're back to the routine of annual budgets. however, the experience of this parliament's term of office so far shows that, while there are repeatable procedures, there are no fully repeatable budgets, that is, there is no budgetary routine, because each of the budgets so far has had its own character. 2005 was the first year of enlarged europe, the 2006 budget was the budget that bridged the gap between the old and the new financial perspective, and 2007 and the 2007 budget is the launch of a new generation of multiannual programmes, and this is an important feature of the 2007 budget. our rapporteur, james elles, has set out the priorities and has won the support of the majority of the committee on budgets. knowing its persuasive power, it will win a parliamentary majority, but the real context for the debate on the 2007 budget strategy is no longer the commission's guidelines on the strategy, but the figures presented for 2007 by the commission, because they are clearly affected by this sign of the new generation of programmes this is very clearly seen in chapter 1a, chapter 3a and in foreign policy. i too believe that the successful launch of the next generation of multiannual programmes is one of the essential measures of the success of the 2007 budget, while respecting the priorities that james elles has presented to us. if we can get this thing moving, we'll be back to a year-long routine that'll be less than routine again.
mr. chairman, please! 2007 will undoubtedly be a year of great challenges for europe and its citizens. the enlargement of the union by two more countries, the further process of ratifying the constitutional treaty and, above all, the start of the implementation of the new financial perspective must be supported by the effective implementation of union policies in order to meet the global challenges and expectations of our citizens. the identification of priorities for the coming year is of strategic importance in this context for each of the seven years covered by the new perspective. the already apparent disparities between the global challenges facing the community and the measures to increase the competitiveness of its economy are therefore both surprising and worrying. in addition, in defining the challenges, the european commission seems to be missing the dynamic changes in the world economy, especially those in the fastest growing markets such as china and india. in the field of internal policy, in line with the lisbon strategy, the commission should strongly support, at both community and national level, the elements of the modern economy such as research, innovation and information society technologies. in the face of increasing global competition, it is also necessary to develop strategies to adapt employers and workers to the changes taking place. in this respect, the current globalisation fund can be a first step in the right direction and the revision of the union budget planned for 2008 will be an important instrument for adapting the multiannual financial plans to the dynamic world. this is the only way to maintain a strong political and economic position and to overcome the internal crisis the european union is currently experiencing.
member of the commission. mr president, i very much welcome the draft report adopted by the european parliament’s committee on regional development on the commission communication on cohesion policy in support of growth and jobs: community strategic guidelines, 2007-2013. in particular, i should like thank mrs krehl for her hard work in drafting the report. the draft community strategic guidelines for cohesion reflect the two key principles of the european union’s future cohesion policy. these are the strengthening of the strategic dimension of regional and cohesion policy to ensure that community priorities are better integrated into national and regional development programmes, and ensuring that there is greater ownership of the policy on the ground with a better partnership between the commission, the member states and the regions, including social partners. with the relaunch of the lisbon strategy, cohesion policy has become the primary financial instrument at community level to ensure that its resources are used for the implementation of the growth and jobs strategy. this is reflected in the priorities contained in the draft community strategic guidelines for 2007-2013, which seek to provide a balance between the twin objectives of the growth and jobs agenda and territorial cohesion. in line with the growth and jobs agenda, the guidelines call for the next generation of programmes to target resources on the following three priority fields. firstly: enhancing the attractiveness of member states, regions and cities by improving accessibility, ensuring adequate quality and level of services, and preserving their environmental potential. secondly: encouraging innovation, entrepreneurship and the growth of the knowledge economy through research and innovation capacities, including new information and communication technologies. thirdly: creating more and better jobs by attracting more people into employment or entrepreneurial activity, improving the adaptability of workers and enterprises and increasing investment in human capital. in sum, the guidelines provide a variety of priorities, with sufficient flexibility, which can be taken into account when designing investment strategies that differ across europe’s regions. on the other hand, the guidelines also focus on a limited number of priorities to ensure that a genuine concentration of resources takes place in order to increase the effectiveness of investment and to make the growth and jobs strategy a reality. to conclude, the council has come to a political agreement on the structural funds regulations for 2007-2013. for the commission, the next step is to draft the final version of the community strategic guidelines for the council to adopt. the draft report adopted by the committee on regional development will help to shape the final version of the guidelines, along with the comments submitted by the member states and the results of a public consultation exercise held last year.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the signing of the interinstitutional agreement today allows the legislative work on the implementation of cohesion policy to continue in the period 2007-13. in accordance with the procedures in force, the european commission will present the strategic framework after adopting the package of regulations on the structural funds and the cohesion fund. the european parliament should expect the european commission to set priorities and lines of action that preserve the essence of the eu's cohesion policy while creating the conditions for the implementation of the lisbon strategy. the strategic guidelines should, as the rapporteur rightly points out, complement the framework set out in the regulation and not alter or replace it. we recognise that the strategic guidelines will be the basis for the member states to develop the final versions of their national strategic reference frameworks. it is therefore necessary to word them in such a way that they do not give rise to any interpretation problems. in this context, i would like to draw particular attention to a number of elements which should be included in the strategic reference framework. the challenges associated with the lisbon objectives make the urban dimension of cohesion policy particularly important, and it should become one of the main elements of the strategic guidelines. the objectives set out in the strategic guidelines will only be achieved if transport accessibility is improved, and therefore the construction of transport networks, and in particular the trans-european networks, is one of the key tasks. the lisbon objectives cannot be achieved without the conditions for innovative research and development and the support of the seventh framework programme, i.e. cohesion policy should create the conditions for research and development. the strategic guidelines must be clear, clear and understandable, and the european parliament has the right to expect this.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. while i regard the report by mr santos as very good and necessary for farmers, i would like to draw attention to the fact that the damage caused by one of the natural disasters, the frost, is treated too lightly. i understand that natural disasters such as fires and droughts are much closer to the rapporteur due to the fact that he lives in the mediterranean region. in the countries of central and northern europe, the frost causes very heavy losses in agriculture, especially in fruit and vegetable production. the project aims to create a systemic solution for all regions of the european union and for all natural disasters. therefore, the report should be completed accordingly with those elements that have been omitted. another issue that is highlighted in the report is the issue of rural depopulation and abandonment of farms by farmers. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. large forest losses occur due to, among other things, inadequate forest maintenance, monoculture in large forested areas and planting of inappropriate tree species. i would just like to point out that when you were discussing the forestry strategy in parliament two months ago, you left out vast areas of forest where forest management is exemplary. i'm talking about state forests, for example in poland, where fires and hurricanes also occur, causing huge losses.
mr. chairman, please! it is good that the european parliament is dealing with natural disasters and their consequences for the environment - and what i particularly appreciate - also for agriculture. although other continents experience more disasters than europe, our continent is not without them. forest fires in the south and floods in the central part of the continent are common. the people affected by these disasters cannot be left without help, nor should the member states be left to face them alone. it is good that mr capoulas santos' report has so strongly identified the problems of agriculture, which is particularly vulnerable to the effects of natural disasters. it is very right that this problem of natural disasters has been linked to what i would call the socioeconomic disaster threatening european agriculture in the context of what is happening in the world trade organisation, in the context of the rapid liberalisation of the market and the erosion, the weakening of the protection of european agricultural markets. as this market protection weakens, it is good that at least there is a vision, a perspective of help in the face of natural disasters. this is the highest value of the reports under discussion. this project is an important step towards building genuine european solidarity.
mr. chairman, please! natural disasters such as floods or droughts often affect regions in more than one member state. the european union must therefore act together, both in preventing and in remedying the consequences of disasters. the solidarity fund should therefore have a wider scope than before, allowing it to respond to crises resulting from natural disasters as well as those caused by industrial and technological disasters or acts of terrorism. it is also necessary to develop a european strategy for combating the effects of natural disasters, together with the appropriate community instruments for prevention, to adapt the use of the structural funds to disaster prevention and to coordinate closely with other community instruments. by ensuring the necessary flexibility in the allocation of available resources from the different funds, their operational capacity in the event of a disaster can be increased. in addition, individual member states and the community institutions must put particular emphasis on improving the existing early warning systems to minimise the impact of disasters, since even the largest solidarity fund, let alone the one we will have in the next 7 years, will not be able to cover all the losses that european union citizens suffer each year as a result of unforeseen disasters and catastrophes.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament sometimes deals with matters that really concern the elite, but much more often with matters that concern everyone. that's what natural disasters are. the frequent floods, for example in my region of central and eastern europe, but also the fires in the south of our continent are real challenges for the international community, including the european parliament. it is important in this context not to increase the appropriations for this purpose in the 2007-2013 budget so much as to make them more flexible in order to remove the bureaucratic obstacles that prevent the use of these funds depending on the disasters that occur. a good example of this is the situation in poland, from the period before accession in 1997, when my country was hit by a huge flood, these funds were reallocated. in conclusion, we must use both the structural funds to mitigate the effects of disasters and the european solidarity fund to help the victims of these disasters. this is what mr wojciechowski was talking about a moment ago - an example of european solidarity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: of course, we feel that nepal is a distant country and that these things are not always quite understood by us. but i have to say, some things just kind of impose themselves. before i came to this room, one of the journalists asked me if i thought the european union should be concerned with restoring democracy in the world. i said that the european union obviously has limited possibilities and that we must always stand by certain values. we know very well that in nepal the situation is very specific. it is not a simple choice between the strong power of the king, which has exceeded the powers that the king has given the laws of nepal, and has resulted in very great hardship for many nepalese citizens but this is also the problem of the maoist guerrillas in nepal. let us remember that we have to be very careful when we decide who we support in nepal, because it would be a great tragedy for this country if after the removal of the king from the authoritarian power he took over, after a short period of transitional democracy, there was a maoist tyranny. we know well that communist revolutionaries have very often done this: they fought against strong monarchical power under democratic slogans and then overthrew democracy to introduce their own tyrannical governments. we must be very careful and, while we are advocating democratic change, demanding respect for minorities, demanding the opening of a centre for tibetan refugees, as mr mann has said, we must also be very careful not to substitute one bad solution for another, or even worse. and that will be the task of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the current situation in sri lanka is being described as the most difficult in the four years since the ceasefire between the tamil tigers and government forces. the conflict in the region has already claimed 64,000 lives, and in the past six months, a series of terrorist attacks has killed another 300 people. a week ago, the may 11th attacks ended with the sinking of a navy ship with 18 people on board. the lives of peaceful observers have also been seriously endangered. such incidents violate the principle of an already fragile truce and threaten to break it completely. under the terms of the peace agreement, the entire sea area around sri lanka is under the jurisdiction of the governmental side, and both sides have an obligation to protect local observers at all costs. particularly worrying are the growing conflict that is hampering the island's economic development, the lack of aid for tsunami victims, the spread of racial and ethnic discrimination, the recruitment of children into military activities, and the limitation of media independence. the international institutions must condemn in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks that have taken place in sri lanka. support the action to resume the second round of peace talks and work towards mobilising local communities to find a peaceful solution to the conflict and stop the bloodshed of civilians, in particular children.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. all of us who are familiar with the history of the last 60 years know that it was in taiwan that the heroic chinese people under the brave general chiang kai-shek resisted the criminal regime of the communist mainland china. taiwan has had strong-arm governments for a long time, but they have not been criminal governments. there was no religious persecution, there was no class persecution, there was no persecution of religious minorities. today we cannot be dictated by mainland china, which is communist china. we have to give the chinese in taiwan the minimum they deserve. common sense for the sake of the world, for the sake of health and for the sake of the chinese people in taiwan requires that we give them the right to belong to international organizations, including the world health organization.
mr. chairman, please! it is completely incomprehensible to me how a democratic country, respecting human rights, respecting intellectual property, tolerant of religious beliefs, trading with the whole world, threatening no one, is discriminated against in international organizations that aim at the good of all mankind. we're talking about the world health organization because it's obvious that the birds that carry bird flu are not interested in the political reasons that taiwan is isolated from the world community. it is clear that he must participate in the collective effort to prevent the spread of this disease. observer status with the world health organisation is the minimum must be granted. let this happen and let this be the prelude to taiwan's full presence in international organizations.
mr. chairman, please! the threat of pandemic influenza and other infectious diseases is one of the most serious problems facing modern civilization. infectious diseases such as hiv, aids, tuberculosis, malaria, and sars are becoming more common worldwide. the total exclusion of taiwan from the world health organization puts the island's more than 20 million people at risk of being excluded from the world community. given the high quality of the taiwanese healthcare system, it is also in the interest of the international community that taiwanese experts participate in the expert meetings of the world health organisation on the control of avian influenza. in view of the above, the director-general of the world health organisation should include the taiwanese centre for disease control in the global epidemiological alert and response network as soon as possible. the european commission and the member states should express their support for taiwan's request for observer status in the world health assembly. the issue at stake is protecting the health of the people of taiwan, the people of southeast asia and the world.
mr. chairman, please! i will now turn to mr schulz's speech. mr. schulz, please do not interfere in poland's internal affairs, just as we do not interfere in germany's internal affairs. (opposed)
mr. chairman, please! the european union is faced with a fundamental choice: it can take on new tasks, expand its powers and finally collapse under the weight of too many issues. that is the perspective, i believe, of the rejected draft constitutional treaty. we have recently experienced our limitations painfully when we have been confronted with a conflict of interest between member states in connection with the northern gas pipeline. the european union has remained powerless not because it lacked a constitution, but because it lacked political will. but there is an alternative: let's focus our efforts on the concrete things that are already on the table. let us improve the functioning of the single market, the euro area, cooperation between states in the fields of security, home affairs and, finally, cohesion policy. the public will understand our goals better if the list is shorter. president poettering, please do not use blackmail: either energy policy with a constitutional treaty or nothing. let's start talking about what we really have in common, write down those goals, and then move on. that could be a good basis for a revised treaty. but let us not do so with a hasty and arrogant dress of procedures and institutions for every policy. let us do this without adding to the list of tasks which cannot be carried out at community level. first of all, let us find the substance of the common policy, its substance, what we really have in common, because without substance no procedure will allow us to create a common position.
mr. chairman, please! it is not necessary to remind anyone of the importance for the development of the european union of the planned accession of bulgaria and romania to a number of member states. we have to be aware that this is a very important fact, especially for geopolitical and cultural reasons. both candidate countries are situated on the balkan peninsula, historically known as the soft coast of europe. bulgaria's accession means that the union has entered the field of eastern culture. the enlargement of our community in this direction should therefore be undertaken in a prudent and responsible manner. i would therefore like to warn against the excessive, in my opinion, recent dissatisfaction with the changes in romania and bulgaria. this is the way to read the thoughtless accusations of widespread corruption against these countries. their authors do not take into account the fact that the phenomenon of corruption, which is greater than in other european countries, is due to the fact that the bulgarian and romanian people carry the baggage of the communist past. post-soviet structures, left untouched for many years, have become a source of looters and other criminal activity. it is worth recalling that europe itself contributed to this state of affairs by not providing sufficient support to the decommunization and lustration movements. the european union is the integration of nations. and that can only be achieved by mutual understanding of their heritage and their problems, because that is the only way to build partnerships.
mr. chairman, please! i am very pleased with the debate we are having today, because it must be said in the open that over the past year we have neglected in this house the period of reflection that was announced. i have the impression that parliament has been basing itself on previous positions. the supporters remained supporters, the opponents remained opponents. we have not looked for such realistic options for resolving the constitutional crisis in which europe finds itself. and yet, think tanks have come up with at least a dozen different options for resolving this constitutional crisis. there is one thing i would like to say, and i would encourage this room to consider it. i am referring to a variant of a small constitution, i.e. the constitutional introduction of the provisions of the present document, which are of a more constitutional nature, i mean the provisions of chapter one, chapter two, and the reform of primary law and the use of secondary law instruments, those provisions which are more executive in nature. because it seems that the constitutional treaty, with the fiasco of the referendums in france and the netherlands, we should defend as much as possible. the answer to three questions justifies this attitude. firstly, do we really want a deeper union, or do we want, in other words, more union? and the answer to that question, at least in my political circle, is yes, we want more union, because only a stronger, more efficient and more democratic union can be achieved through deeper integration. second, do we want a constitution? yes, we want a constitution because a constitution gives us a chance to have a stronger, more efficient and more democratic union. and finally, the third question: do we want this particular constitutional treaty? yes, but not at any price. we must accept the political reality and be as flexible as possible and implement solutions that are achievable in the given situation.
mr president, prime minister, please! it is clear that we are building the future of europe for the people, and it is for them to answer the question of what kind of europe they want and within what limits. the answers were supposed to come in a period of reflection, but that period didn't work out. there was no civil debate, no support from the european institutions, especially the council, which after the negative referendums in france and the netherlands said stop, wait, we'll see, it'll work out. europe is in a state of impotence and i would therefore ask you, mr prime minister, to ask the leaders of the countries which have postponed the ratification process at the next council meeting in june what they intend to do next, what their plans are. and don't take no for an answer that this is their internal matter. it's not like that. the ratification of an international treaty is the obligation of the states that have signed it. it's also a test of their credibility, their ability to cooperate in international relations. and finally, i would like to add that in my country, poland, where the ratification process has been suspended, recent public opinion polls show that almost 80% of the polish public support europe, people want more of it, want to build it, to build a europe based on equality, not just resource-based, but fair, solidary and democratic.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the plan for strengthening the desired cooperation with the united states is outlined in a very balanced way in the reports by elmar brok and erika mann. free trade, legislative dialogue and closer cooperation in the fields of defence and security are the natural priorities. i congratulate both rapporteurs. and now a few words of political commentary. if we in europe want to avoid the role of the younger brother, we cannot afford to be increasingly delayed in the economic and military spheres. i have to say, i'm surprised you're complaining about american unilateralism when we're spending two-thirds of american defense spending. i'm concerned that europe represents only 25% of america's mobile defense capability, that we have an outdated nato base structure in europe, which, moreover, may be weakened by vague european projects. europe will not be able to play a global role if we lose the ability to form a strategic political partnership with the us. in this partnership, we will not trade america for another, better partner. a europe with declining economic indicators, with a sick public finances, with a tragic demography, has one alternative. the alternative is our marginalization and isolation alongside a world that is fast-paced, sometimes crazy, sometimes even hostile.
mr. chairman, please! today we are debating one of the union's most important partners, but also the challenge of our relations with that partner. in our parliament, we hear very often harsh words of criticism and criticism of the united states, much less calls not to judge our greatest ally at all. let's put both of these extremes aside. the united states is needed by europe, europe is needed by the united states. and i'm talking about this in the context of the dynamic rise of asia, but also the growing demographic and political role of latin america and africa. the obsession with anti-americanism is a fatal thing, but it's equally as bad to be denied the right to ask questions of our friends, even in the context of guantanamo. we also need to patiently explain to washington that if we are moving away, albeit slowly, from interventionism and protectionism in trade, then for the sake of balance, america should do the same. a real partnership and strategic alliance - that is what the european-american relationship should look like in the coming years, unless, of course, we succumb to the stereotype of europe as a teacher on the one hand and europe as a client of america on the other.
mr. chairman, please! the economic and political relations between the european union and the united states require a deepening in both dimensions, the creation of a new transatlantic partnership agreement, which could be in force from 2007. i would like to emphasise in particular the role of political dialogue between the european parliament and the us congress. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to promote the development of a common foreign and security policy. this dialogue should cover political, economic, cultural and social issues. the transatlantic legislators' dialogue should be made one of the most important platforms for shaping the european union's foreign policy. the united states' hegemonic position at the beginning of the 21st century requires the european union to be autonomous and a true partner in transatlantic relations, to open up its problems and to seek a common political platform. the need of the hour now is to persuade the us to participate in the reform of the un and to respect human rights and civil liberties in the fight against terrorism. these issues must be the subject of the next euro-american summit. i would also like to draw attention to the problem of visas. the european union should not tolerate a situation where citizens of certain member states are required to obtain a visa while in the usa. the relevant institutions of the european union should raise the issue of visa waiver for all citizens of the european union in the usa with the authorities of the united states.
mr. chairman, please! in the context of the new transatlantic partnership agreement, particular attention should be paid to the existing controversies between the european union and the united states on strategies and methods for combating terrorism in the world. the simple consequence is that both partners are less effective. global terrorism is a new phenomenon, not yet fully recognized, but with enormous reach and operational capabilities. compared even to communism, it threatens everything. instead of setting up curious commissions of inquiry with no real powers, it is necessary to build good cooperation between european countries and the united states, including strengthening the cooperation of their intelligence services. to fight terrorism and thus to protect human rights in the modern world, we need clear principles, coordination and mutual trust.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i am encouraged to be able to address at the forthcoming summit a number of issues relating to our common future, including cooperation to promote democracy and human rights, freedom and prosperity in the world, but also issues relating to the global challenges we face: climate change, the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and energy security, which is a subject of growing concern on both sides of the atlantic and which has also been the subject of intensive work in the council this half-year; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia. here, the key is to take it one step at a time. i also thank the commission for its close cooperation. i would like to conclude by thanking the rapporteurs and all those who have contributed to this report and who regularly take part in the debate on our transatlantic relations. these are key relations for the european union, for all of us, and we must avoid taking a unilateral position on them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. but these points must not overshadow what binds us together, the depth and sustainability of our shared values and also the work we do on the issues that are important to us in the world.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this excellent debate on a central and essential relationship that will indeed focus on how much further our cooperation can grow on foreign policy and democracy promotion, on increased cooperation in relation to energy, and on the enhancement of growth and competitiveness in our economies. let me respond to a few question rather briefly. indeed, we plan to sign a new agreement on higher education and vocational training, including launching an innovative transatlantic degree programme. as for tourism – which was also mentioned – exchanges would be facilitated by extending the visa waiver programme to all our member states. as to the environment, we want to relaunch our dialogue with the us, notably by relaunching the high-level dialogue on the environment, including the issue of climate change. our cooperation on energy will also touch on climate change issues from the standpoint of energy efficiency. however, our overall dialogue needs to be broader than this. for those who might not have been here at the beginning, i would like to come back to the questions of visa waiver and visa reciprocity. these are issues that we not only mention on a regular basis, but they are there in the dialogue, and will certainly be taken up again with president bush. on passenger name records and the recent european court of justice judgment relating to the cases brought by the european parliament, we respect the court’s judgment and analysis and we will fully comply with it. we will cooperate with parliament, the council and with the national data protection authorities to ensure that the judgment is fully complied with. we have only four months to find a new legal basis, but i hope we will be able to cooperate in such a way that there will be no lowering of protection standards, no disruption to transatlantic air traffic, and that a high level of security will be maintained. finally, we are looking forward to the successful setting-up of the galileo satellite navigation system, where cooperation with third countries is necessary and useful, and where we hope that cooperation with the us will bring an additional benefit to our companies and citizens. we are very thankful to the two rapporteurs and for the engagement and commitment of parliament. it will certainly give us more strength.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to add my thanks to the rapporteurs for two excellent reports and simply to make two points. the first is that for all the attention that is occasionally given to disagreements in trade matters between the united states and the european union, it is worth bearing in mind that 98% of our trade is dispute-free. where there are disputes, both sides move rapidly, not always with immediate success, but rapidly to resolve these amicably and quickly. that is something we should note and celebrate without being complacent. the second point i want to make is that erika mann’s report does not actually call for a single free trade area, so those who are opposing it are aiming at the wrong target. what the report calls for is a barrier-free area, a barrier-free transatlantic market between europe and the united states. that is something that we can applaud and encourage. as i said earlier on, i do not think it will attract the support of some sort of ‘big-bang’ elaborate scheme. however, the fact is that this trade and investment relationship between us is worth a colossal amount in terms of people’s jobs, their livelihoods, their futures. it is not so much tariffs, anymore, that stand in the way of growth in this relationship; it is non-tariff barriers, regulatory barriers, differences in standards and licensing and all the rest. there is a sort of bonfire of barriers to set alight. these are very noble and correct economic objectives for us to set our hands and our shoulders to. this is why i so heartily commend this report and will dedicate myself and my services to realising its spirit.
with the forthcoming eu-us summit in mind, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and stress the need to improve relations between these communities. today, we need a community of action in the areas of common interests and values, as well as threats, which gives a new, effective and representative dimension to common policies, economic relations, and which brings together forces to counter the threat of terrorism. the issue of global problems requires global and rapid action. the priorities of the 2005 un summit and the development of an action plan on terrorism should become the objective, the motivation for cooperation and the acceleration of reforms in both nato and un structures, with particular emphasis on the reorganisation of its security council. the collapse of the 'enemy of the western world' in eastern europe and the disagreement of member states to intervene in iraq have led many to ask - in both the us and europe - whether nato is still needed. the terrorist threat can provide the basis for an alliance, but this challenge requires the creation of new political and military structures and cooperation in the field of the european union's foreign and security policy. it is necessary to take steps towards the development of a common strategy for the security of energy and raw materials supply through diversification of sources of supply, production and transport and the strengthening of the policy dialogue on renewable energy sources.
mr. chairman, please! in poland, strikes and the tragic situation of the health service threaten not only the health but also the lives of my countrymen. and if i have a minute, i'll just give you two examples of liberal and destructive thinking in terms of money and profit. since 1989, more than 20,000 doctors have left poland, and since accession, 1,500 medical specialists have left my homeland in just five months. if you count that, we train 2,000 doctors a year, which means that we've been training doctors for other countries for over 12 years. and the greedy, predatory foreign pharmaceutical companies are taking over half of my country's health budget. i therefore call on the european parliament to reflect on the treatment of healthcare, to limit the economic arbitrariness of pharmaceutical monopolies and to change the conception of this profession and healthcare so that it should care about human health and well-being, not just economic growth and profit, especially since strikes in the healthcare sector also occur in many other countries of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the prolonged house arrest last week of aung san suu kyi, the leader of the burmese opposition. the leader of the democratic opposition and nobel peace prize winner has spent 10 of the last 17 years cut off from the world. she was due to be released last week, but the ruling military junta declared her a threat to the country's security and extended her detention. i would like to raise again today the question of respect for human rights as one of the basic and fundamental principles of the european communities. i propose that the president of the european parliament send a special delegation to visit the leader of the burmese opposition, who has spent so many years in isolation, and to convey to her our support.
mr. chairman, please! today, the leader of the socialist faction, mr. schulz, brazenly and arrogantly attacked the members of the polish government by denying them the right to make decisions in accordance with the will of the majority of the polish people. i'm not surprised by mr. schulz's lack of respect for democracy, after all, his political champion was karl marx and rosa luxemburg themselves. mr. schulz, it's not in poland, but in your country the greatest genocidal totalitarianism has grown, and today neo-fascist organizations in germany are growing in strength and taking to the streets. so please take care of these marches, which are a real threat to europe and do not condemn the polish prime minister for the fact that, in accordance with the will of the majority of poles who are attached to pro-family values, he does not support the hedonistic pornography of homosexuals. poland has one of the lowest fertility rates in europe and i don't think promoting gay marriage is going to help us. unless you know some way to reproduce them that you know. german domination in europe is fortunately over and you should realize that once and for all, mr. schulz, and keep your german interests out of poland's internal affairs.
mr. chairman, please! i would like us in the european parliament to see the real, not the media, effects of the russia-eu summit in sochi. but on a very specific issue, namely the implementation of the so-called eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement of 1996, in the context of the ban on the import of polish meat, this agreement is on paper - it is fiction. how is it that the solidarity of the european union is actually being broken in this matter? many of the countries of the old union do not mind the fact that while they trade with moscow, other countries - like poland - are excluded. this case will really show whether european solidarity is just a slogan on the lips of some politicians or a reality. unfortunately, for now, i regret to say, i regret to say, it's just a slogan. i hope it's not.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw your attention to a serious problem that is currently emerging in some member states of the european union, namely the threat to fundamental rights, freedoms and civil liberties. as a european parliament, we cannot stand by and watch democracy, the right of european citizens to express their opinions freely, or the freedom of assembly be curtailed. this is all the more dangerous when the violations of civil rights are permitted by government officials, as is unfortunately the case in my country, poland. we must be sensitive to such situations, and respond effectively when a member state violates the basic principles that constitute the criterion for membership of the european union. the violation of civil rights is not an internal matter of the member states. this reaction must not be one of silence but of immediate action, which is what all citizens of the democratic organisation that is the european union expect from the european council.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - madam president! - i have to go. the history of the exchange of goods in both primitive and developed societies indicates that trade based on fair rules contributed to the survival and development of these societies. there's no doubt about it. in our group we are convinced that the free and fair trade which the union is striving for will also contribute to reducing poverty in many regions of the world today. there are examples of failure, of course, but these are more to do with the failure to apply fair rules than with trade par excellence itself. the report that mr markov prepared for us at the beginning sounded like free trade was actually leading to more poverty than reduction. our faction was against such a position. however, after some discussion and amendments, this report sounds better and, together with the proposed amendments which i think will be accepted tomorrow, it will be acceptable to our group. it is also clear that trade is not the only instrument for reducing poverty, but it can make a significant contribution. in conclusion, i suggest that we give free trade, i repeat, free trade a chance to help eliminate poverty. in english, that is "let us establish free and fair trade to make poverty history".
madam president! the aim of the regulation of the parliament and of the council on medicinal products for paediatric use is to improve the health of children in europe by developing specific medicinal products to help children fight disease. i would like to thank mrs grossetête for her excellent work on this regulation. you've obviously put a lot of effort, heart and knowledge into it. health, and above all the health of children, is a priority in itself. however, in the light of the sensitive subject of paediatric medicines, it is worth asking whether it can be conclusively stated that prescribing medicines for adults to children is more ethical than conducting controlled and strictly regulated studies involving them. this is a question we should all be thinking about, and one that should be the basis for a deeper discussion. unfortunately, we don't have much time for that right now. as regards the regulation, i am strongly opposed to the reduction of the deadline for a company seeking to extend the right to market exclusivity for a basic medicinal product from two years to six months. the proposal was voted on at first reading, when only 1% of the votes in parliament were in favour of the measure. this amendment was not supported by either the council or the commission. i would like to express my regret that, in view of the low support in the may vote, no amendments were made to prevent abuse of the system of rewards and incentives allowed under the provisions of the regulation under discussion. i am in favour of not, however, accumulating preferential tools and rewards for carrying out the same research for the same product, which would too often lead to abuse. i think it is important that the manufacturer of medicines should be compensated for the costs of research into the use of medicines in children. patenting the use of a medicinal product or its form, by providing market exclusivity for the sale of medicinal products for children, could be such compensation. it is important to note here that medicinal products for adult use should be studied for use in children only when justified and necessary. finally, i would like to express my full support for the establishment of a scientific committee on paediatrics, composed of persons of expertise and competence, whose members are independent experts in their field. i think it's a very good solution.
mr. chairman, please! thank you, mr. chatzimarkakis. i'm not sure i can do this. the european union has good research, but not enough innovation. as rapporteur for the seventh framework programme, i congratulate commissioner verheugen on his new idea of a competitiveness and innovation programme. i fully support this programme and i fully support mr chatzimarkakis' report. this programme guarantees the mobilisation of industrial funding for innovation. it is particularly active in small and medium-sized enterprises. the european union will not succeed in the technological race without such a programme bridging the gap between research and innovation in the european union. it is the basis of the lisbon strategy, and it is also the way to build a common european research and innovation area.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the treaty on european union provides that the entry of new member states into the euro area is a right and an obligation of those countries - as commissioner almunia has just said. the pse group fully supports this idea. the conditions for joining the euro area were laid down in the maastricht treaty in the form of the so-called nominal convergence criteria. the fulfilment of these criteria is a necessary and sufficient condition for entry into the single currency area. meanwhile, attempts are being made to impose additional conditions on the new member states, such as real convergence or the undefined absorption capacity of the euro area. such criteria are not and cannot be applied in the treaty. there can be no double standards between the new and the old member states. while fully agreeing that the provisions of the treaty must be respected, we should stick to the principle that we are bound by the treaty, only the treaty and nothing but the treaty. i would also point out that the convergence criteria raise a number of legitimate economic and interpretative doubts. these problems were brought to light in the recent convergence reports for lithuania and slovenia. in assessing whether the inflation criterion is met, both the european commission and the european central bank have used a definition of price stability in their reports that is at odds with the definition of price stability used by the same european central bank in its monetary policy. other aspects of the assessment are also questionable. this is not an easy matter, since on this basis lithuania's application to join the euro area has not received a positive recommendation from the commission. this situation is worrying because the european commission's decisions must be credible and must not give rise to suspicions of bias or lack of objectivity. the principles for country-by-country assessment and full transparency of the decision-making process are needed. mr president, the convergence criteria, which were formulated 15 years ago when the member states still had national currencies and pursued separate monetary policies, should be adapted to the present situation when new member states are joining the already existing single currency area. this requires appropriate amendments to the relevant provisions of article 121 of the treaty and the protocol to that article. i call for a debate on this matter.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the following points in this debate: firstly, the report very strongly recalls that all the maastricht criteria must be met before new member states join the euro area. at the same time, it ignores the fact that many of the old member states did not meet these criteria when they adopted the euro. so once again, we have a political signal that the union is more and more equal. secondly, since the introduction of the euro in 2002, at least five countries, including the largest - germany, france and italy - have not met the most important criteria and are therefore unable to keep their budget deficits and public debt at risk. the latter is considerably above 60% of gdp for several of them, so that they will have to reduce it for many years. nevertheless, not only is their continued participation in the monetary and monetary union unquestioned, but no one is pressing them to change their current state of affairs. the recent changes to the stability and growth pact, which have benefited germany and france, are a clear example of this. thirdly, in this situation, the denial of lithuania's participation in the euro area from 1 january 2007 on the grounds that it exceeded the inflation rate by 0.1% may at least give pause to the debate on the extension of the euro area to all new member states and the accession of england, denmark and sweden to the euro area, and portend very bad things.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgets. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the idea of 2008 as the european year of intercultural dialogue was born of the enlargement of the union to 10 new countries, which brought additional cultural, linguistic and religious diversity to the community. this initiative fully meets the challenges of today's europe, the need for a multi-faceted dialogue to build mutual understanding based on respect and tolerance. such a noble idea, unfortunately, was not supported by the appropriate budget. the 10 million euros allocated to the 27 countries, without the additional support of the member states, will not allow the realisation of visible and truly valuable cultural events. however, it is to be hoped that, with the appropriate use of other programmes for cultural activities and the involvement of civil society, ngos, religious organisations, schools, universities and, above all, the media, the ambitious objectives for 2008 will be achieved by a joint effort, despite the modest, even symbolic, budget, in a dialogue rather than a frugal cultural monologue.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. intercultural dialogue is only possible if cultural diversity is protected and promoted, if we see european culture as the sum of different cultures, different peoples and different environments. the attempt to create a so-called european culture, as a universal one for all, will bring more harm than good. the tendency to eliminate minority languages from official and legal, including economic, circulation and hence from the european union's weaker peoples is very damaging to cultural dialogue. there is a particular dislike for slavic languages and cultures, as shown by the vote in the european parliament on the report on the promotion of multilingualism and the learning of foreign languages. it is often forgotten that languages and traditional culture are the basis of the cultures of nations, their survival and development. the union still lacks the means to protect these values. they are for large projects, for professional culture, even on a non-european scale. in order to establish a lasting dialogue in culture, equal opportunities and cultural partnership must be preserved.
mr. chairman, please! the problem in question is the rational use of energy which, once released from primary sources, can be converted into useful work or another form of energy or used irrationally in open systems. examples of such systems include large commercial steam power plants, whose final efficiency is at best 30-40% minus 10% for transmission losses. so how can we use energy more rationally to save that 20 to 30 percent? firstly, it is necessary to invest in comprehensive thermal modernisation of buildings and modernisation of the way in which heat is produced and supplied, as well as in waste heat recovery facilities, and secondly, to invest in the decommissioning of old, small, obsolete local boilers and to connect housing estates - especially in new countries where such blocks are in large cities - to the heating networks powered by modern, optimally sized cogeneration plants. this will allow the electricity to be generated for the local customer at the same time, i.e. without transmission losses. however, to achieve a rapid impact, a financial priority in access to eu funds for these projects, especially in central and eastern europe, is needed.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the belgian initiative of 2004 is a response to a series of sexual offences committed by michel fourniret. the fourniret case demonstrated that a person convicted in one member state for such an offence can subsequently move to another member state and there carry out work without any obstacles that allows him to have constant contact with children. the current framework decision on the recognition and enforcement in the european union of the prohibitions on convictions for sexual offences against children, as set out in the 2003 framework decision, addresses these legal loopholes. the proposal aims to ensure that a judicial ban on working with children following a conviction for sexual offences or child pornography is not only valid in the country where it was imposed, but in any other eu country to which the person subject to the ban is transferred. the proposed framework decision introduces the following:- obliges the member states where the convicted person resides to recognise the injunction issued in another country and to enforce it in their territory;- introduces the obligation to enter in the convicted person's register any injunction issued against a convicted person for sexual offences against children, including those issued by other states;- provides for the obligation to notify another state of the injunction when transmitting other information from the convicted person's register in accordance with applicable international and union law on legal aid in criminal matters;- obliges the member state whose convicted person's register is consulted in respect of the convicted person's past to always submit the information from the convicted person's register to the member state of which the person is a national in such a situation. the proposed modifications to the draft framework decision include, in particular: first, the extension of the definition of prohibition to include prohibitions on the performance of activities of any kind in public or private institutions dealing with the supervision of children or working with children. the idea is that not only educators or teachers who are going to work with children are bound by this ban, but also technical staff who may be employed in such institutions. secondly, to extend the protection of european union citizens by requiring member states to register convicted persons also for the prohibitions imposed in non-eu countries and to regulate situations of dual nationality. finally, it should be stressed that the proposed framework decision is a reflection of the implementation of the tampere european council conclusions of 1999, which stated that mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters will be the cornerstone of judicial cooperation within the european union. we realize that there are no perfect solutions, but i am convinced that the successful implementation of this decision will significantly improve the safety of our children. however, the work on the problem of combating paedophilia cannot be completed with this document. member states must go further in implementing and enforcing the law on professional ineligibility. consequently, every employing institution should require that each person be screened for sexual offences against children.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the principle of equal pay for equal work regardless of gender should be a basic principle in the civilized world. we believe that equal treatment between women and men is rather discriminatory and harmful to women, who are overwhelmingly mothers and educators of the younger generation, and should therefore be particularly protected not only in terms of employment but also in terms of working conditions. even under the totalitarian system in which poles lived, women were protected by law, at least on paper, especially by the possibility of returning to their previous position after maternity and parental leave, as well as by the possibility of professional development. therefore, specific legal arrangements are necessary not only to ensure equal treatment between women and men but also to protect women, especially during the period of maternity, maternity and parental leave. internal national legislation would suggest more favourable solutions for mothers, including the inclusion of parental leave in the work experience, inclusion in pension schemes and even the introduction of financial equivalents for parental leave, which would reduce unemployment.
mr. chairman, please! the directive implementing the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation is a very important and long-awaited document for the citizens of the european union. the new directive simplifies existing community legislation by bringing together provisions from several other directives on the implementation of the principle of equal pay, equal treatment of women and men in access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions. for the principle of equal opportunities to work effectively, flexible working time arrangements are necessary to enable both women and men to reconcile family and professional life. member states must provide for measures to facilitate childcare, including special arrangements for parental leave, to both parents, since this is a major determinant of equal access to employment, education and career advancement. in addition, close cooperation with the social partners is also necessary to effectively counter the persisting unfair pay gap between men and women and the clear gender segregation in the labour market. i would like to join in congratulating mrs niebler on her excellent report.
mr. chairman, please! the treaty of amsterdam states that one of the tasks of the european community is to promote equality between men and women by implementing the common policies and measures referred to in articles 3 and 4. the treaty, which recognises the fundamental importance of gender equality, states that its promotion is as important as the building of a competitive economy. we now have the opportunity to go further and to streamline a number of existing legislation, such as the directive on the implementation of the principle of equal pay, equal treatment of women and men in social security schemes for workers, and on access to employment, training and promotion, and working conditions. but a compromise was finally reached on regulations that would allow both men and women to balance family responsibilities more effectively. that's why i'm in favor of this compromise solution, especially since today is children's day in poland and children deserve such a gift.
mr. chairman, please! the roma problem varies widely across the eu. but throughout europe, roma are a very poor people, with all the consequences of that. culturally, it's a pretty tight-knit community, with its own laws that discriminate against women. the changes that have taken place in the countries of the former socialist area have led to unemployment, which has particularly affected roma women. hunger, disease, unemployment and lack of housing have led this community to the extreme poverty that i have seen in ukraine, romania and other countries where the roma community is the largest ethnic group. the only place that was optimistic was the orphanage in liptovski jan, where a group of roma children were dressed, smiling, playing, not begging. i would add to the title of parliament's resolution on the situation of roma women the words 'and children' who are helpless in this tragedy. the resolutions and conclusions contained in it are sound and i would like to thank the rapporteur for drawing it up.
mr. chairman, please! ethnic groups, such as the roma, have internal rules for marriage and procreation. fourteen-year-old girls are treated as no-talking, child-bearing machines. instead of enjoying the value of intimate life, they are passive, often traumatized beings. often, neither they nor their husbands and fathers realize the psychological consequences. as a psychologist, i can tell you that our research indicates that these experiences of early sexual life, and especially sterilization, such as after early pregnancy problems, have long-term psychological consequences, less visible but severely burdening the well-being of the individual. national laws regulate the age of marriage, but these are often not respected by various minority groups, such as mormons in the united states and roma. there is a great need to raise awareness among all parties involved, i.e. authorities, institutions, parents, girls themselves, about the consequences of this phenomenon, which is ruining their lives instead of making them happy.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think it is very important to point out once again that the commission is really the guardian of community law and sees the two european directives on protection against discrimination as the key instrument in the fight against inequality. the commission will closely monitor the correct and complete implementation in the member states. i think that the situation, which was partly pre-enlargement, has improved in the meantime. but i agree with you: there is still much, much to be done. we need to take more measures to break the vicious circle, and i think it is very important - this has also been mentioned here - that the responsibility within the roma circles themselves to do something for their own women also grows. we must deal with multiple discrimination in particular, and one issue which also seemed to me to be essential and which has been mentioned here again and again is the issue of education and training. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of women's associations and to set up a european network of women's associations and associations. the european social fund is a key instrument which we will be using.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today at 11:00. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the next item is the report by mrs véronique de keyser, drawn up on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the situation of women in armed conflict and their role in the reconstruction and democratic process in post-conflict countries (a6-0159/2006).
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in my one minute of speaking on the report on the situation of women in armed conflict and their role in the reconstruction and democratization process in post-conflict countries, i would like to stress that a positive role for women in conflict resolution is not only dependent on a high level of personal development, which enables them to work in the family and for its development, together with the education of children, but also allows them to pursue justice, security and the preservation of human dignity in other societies, which is vital for the younger generation, which is particularly vulnerable to injuries during armed conflict. the role of women is also all the more justified because, as the protector of life, women are particularly inclined, through their maternal instinct, to provide care and to prevent conflict through their qualities of gentleness, selflessness, empathy, compassion and readiness to help others.
member of the commission. mr president, madam rapporteur, first of all, once again, i would like to thank you very much, mrs de keyser, for this very comprehensive but also very balanced report. the commission's approach, which i have explained in detail, is also fully reflected in it. a key aspect generally recognised in the debate was education and training. this is a strong point in our approach and also in the action plans of the neighbourhood policy. we have to train women. we must train them in society so that they can play their role in society, a more political role, a role also in the forums that ultimately lead to peace negotiations. we are doing this, not only in the neighbourhood policy but also, for example, in latin america - as was discussed at the summit - and in the context of mainstreaming in general. in this context, i would also like to mention that we are organising a euro-mediterranean ministerial conference which will specifically address the question of how to improve the role of women in the region's societies. in this respect, women themselves must be able to enter into much more political roles. a preparatory meeting will already be held in two weeks' time in rabat. as far as prevention is concerned, i absolutely agree that women should benefit more from it. a realistic course could be to encourage the parties to the peace negotiations to involve many more women. this is a much more realistic track than quotas. it is not up to us to impose quotas, but it is up to us to say to the parties: we must also think about the other half of society, which is women. i am quite in agreement with the need to study this point in greater detail and depth. finally, in our new development strategy, we will also place greater emphasis on the issue of gender equality in development cooperation.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today at 11:00.
mr. president, mr. schulz, i'm not going to let you down. i did compare your actions to the actions of marx and rosa luxemburg and unfortunately it is not true what you said if i had said such things about homosexuals. i said that the polish government, and i support that, is against homosexual pornography, and that's the fundamental difference, mr. schulz. and don't get the truth wrong in this house, because on many occasions, mr schulz, you have abused your position as leader of the socialist group to distort the statements of members of parliament. don't do that again.
mr. chairman, please! i'm speaking on the basis of article 145 (1). the minutes of yesterday's sitting show a speech by the chairman of the socialist group, mr schulz, who claimed to have spoken on behalf of the chairmen of the other groups: wurtz, frassoni, watson and poettering. this speech contains false statements that are attributed to me as a member of the league of polish families. it is untrue that the league of polish families, its president and deputy prime minister, my son roman giertych, or any of the party members expressed racist views or called for acts of violence against homosexuals and people who were going to take part in the equality parade in warsaw. congressman schulz and his colleagues are being misinformed. the whole statement is offensive to me personally, to my party and to poland. especially the alignment of the league of polish families with the german nazis is scandalous. it was the democratically elected german government that had a program of extermination of homosexuals and other groups of the population that it did not like. in poland, such views never existed, do not exist and will not exist.
mr president, as a shadow rapporteur i would like to say that the original premise of mr markov’s report was that trade has caused poverty. this is a position that we, as a political group, could never accept. for us, trade is one of the important tools for the fight against poverty. we have a social responsibility towards the poorest countries. we feel that in order to attain the millennium development goals, we have to create a trade environment in which developing countries have real access to the markets of developed countries. we believe there is a link between a country’s wealth and its economic freedom. we support aid programmes, but they must be effective. we must link them to the economic and social climate in recipient countries and they must be aimed at improving democratic governance. połączenie handlu z rozwojem ma na celu dobro ludzi, szczególnie tych żyjących w biedzie. zamiast przeznaczać duże sumy na bezpośrednią pomoc może lepiej jest aktywować biedne kraje przez współpracę gospodarczą, a w tym przez handel, wymianę towarów, usług i kompetencji, aby same budowały dobrobyt. stopniowa liberalizacja na obecnym etapie zróżnicowań gospodarczych jest postulatem rozsądnym. nagła liberalizacja, na przykład, nie sprawdziła się w przypadku chin. chociaż ton sprawozdania jest zbytnio społeczny, zawiera ono wiele propozycji, które mogą konstruktywnie prowadzić do rozwoju poprzez wolny i sprawiedliwy handel międzynarodowy. mimo zastrzeżeń ze strony posłów epp-ed, jako shadow rapporteur proponowałem poparcie sprawozdania, które odpowiednio i rozsądnie wykorzystane przez aktorów w tej sferze może być pomocą w wyrównywaniu różnic poziomu życia, podnosząc standardy w najbiedniejszych społeczeństwach.
mr. chairman, please! poland is, among other things, one of the largest producers of frozen strawberries in the european union. since 2004, the financial situation of these producers has deteriorated and anti-dumping measures have been requested against third country suppliers. the may 2005 report of the committee on agriculture on the simplification of the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables suggested, inter alia, the usefulness of rapid procedures for fruit. last year, a request was made for a procedure to protect the strawberry market and no decision has been taken yet. tens of thousands of growers have started producing strawberries in anticipation of the decision, which will be expensive this year due to low temperatures and flooding of many fields, and the lack of market protection will cause mass bankruptcies of farmers. bureaucratic machine modes may be good for stable production, but not for a competitive, global marketplace where you often have to make important and quick decisions.
mr president, there is an american film called better late than never and there is a polish proverb that says better late than never. i was reminded of this when i recently heard the austrian chancellor, mr schuessel, speak about the need for a vote on the european constitution to be held in all the member states of the european union on the same day. i hope he meant a referendum and not a vote in national parliaments. i would remind you that there is a group of members in this parliament who have been talking about holding these referendums on the same day for two years. unfortunately, when it comes to the acceptance of the constitution, certainly in poland the visit of commissioner wallström, who is here, did not help, as she said once again that she could not imagine a situation in which there would be a preamble to this constitution that spoke about the values of christian tradition. i think that the compromise which is the whole idea of the european union - and in the case of the commissioner in particular - is a word from the dictionary of foreign words.
mr. chairman, please! last week, there were many peaceful demonstrations in poland in defense of freedom of thought, in defense of minority rights, in defense of tolerance. they were of different ages, genders, and worldviews. this is proof that polish society is a mature civic society and that it is close to the fundamental values of the european union, such as freedom, democracy, freedom of opinion and equality. i would like to thank all my fellow meps who have supported these initiatives and initiatives. i would like to thank in particular martin schulz, who took part in the conference of the left alternative of poland in the european union. and above all, to support his initiative to invite the president of the republic of poland, mr lech kaczyński, to the european parliament to present his vision of the european union and the respect of european values in poland.
mr. chairman, please! a report by dick marty of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, published on 7 june, states, among other things, that there were secret prisons in poland where suspected terrorists were held on the orders of the cia. however, the author of the report does not support his claims with any evidence. poland is attacked as a committed ally of the united states, and indirectly for its adherence to traditional values and opposition to european uniformity. basing accusations on premises, not evidence, is meant to discredit poland on the international stage. senator marty spoke before the european parliament's temporary committee, the draft report of its work does not mention poland, and the commission's activities so far have not brought any new facts to the investigation.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to remind you, in agreement with the members of all the political groups from my constituency, wielkopolska, that this month marks the 50th anniversary of the uprising of the poznań workers against the totalitarian regime. the uprising was bloodily suppressed, with nearly 100 people killed. this was in june 1956 - the appearance of the poznań workers did not mean the end of the totalitarian regime, nor even the beginning of its end. but it marked the end of the beginning of totalitarianism in eastern and central europe. i would like to recall these events today and pay tribute to those who took part in them, and especially to those who lost their lives.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i don't always praise the reports i talk about, because there's not always a reason to praise them. i must say, however, that i bow to mr cashman's report with the greatest respect, and i hope that all the reports in this house will be like this. clear, precise and indicative of what we want and what we expect. as chairman of the committee on petitions, i would like to add to my thanks to the rapporteur the thanks i would like to express to the vice-chairmen of our committee and to the very active members of our committee who are here in the chamber and who are working very hard on the committee's work. i would also like to thank the secretariat for the excellent way in which it prepares our work. mr president, our commission was set up to bring the european institutions closer to ordinary citizens and it is doing just that. so the work we do reflects all the problems that citizens in the european union are most concerned about. so for example, the environmental problem, the problem that was mentioned, the zoning issues, the vocational qualifications issue, the insurance issue and a whole series of issues related to the unreliability of insurance companies. mr president, the work of our commission also reflects the fundamental principles of the european union, such as democracy and freedom of expression. i would like to emphasize in particular what mr cashman said in paragraphs 18 and 22, namely the request to the european commission to appoint a high-level official to work with us. this is incredibly important. we have a good relationship with the european commission, we don't question that, but we would like to have a senior official working with us on a daily basis and monitoring our work. and the second point that mr cashman also mentioned in his report, which i would like to stress. our commission is a very important commission, because it works directly with ordinary citizens. it should be increased, as mr. cashman said.
mr. chairman, please! first, the train, but not the sexual one, the railway one. on the day of the inaugural world cup, the train i took from cologne to gelsenkirchen was 2 hours and 15 minutes late instead of 59 minutes, and the train from brussels to cologne was half an hour late. i was thinking of mr. franz beckenbauer, the chairman of the world cup organizing committee, who not long ago unceremoniously spat out, very ironically, the issue of forced prostitution during the world cup. i also remembered the laughter of mr karl heinz rummenigge during the recent public hearing in the european parliament on football on 3 may. when asked by one of our meps about the issue of forced prostitution, this famous former german footballer - a great footballer - laughed with contempt. this is not the attitude we would expect from a figure who many fans consider to be an authority. sometimes it's the appeals of such people, not politicians, that can do more, provided that some of them grow up to the role we want them to play. this is a real problem we're talking about. let's be clear: we can't eliminate this problem completely, but we can reduce it, we can fight it. we shouldn't make this a priority. our voice is and should be the voice of moral pressure, but it is all the more necessary the more mr beckenbauer and mr rummenigge will be shoulder-shrugging. the european parliament's voice on this issue, a voice above political divisions, is necessary.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we are talking today, we are discussing, about forced prostitution and child slavery, on the occasion of the world cup in germany. it would be wrong to think that it is in germany, that it is on the occasion of this world cup that this phenomenon has suddenly appeared on such a massive scale. forced prostitution and sexual exploitation of children has been going on for many, many years, decades, at all kinds of major sporting events, but not just sporting events. every big event, whether it's a european country, whether it's happening on other continents, in the united states, or in asia, or in australia. we have a well-defined problem of sexual coercion, and we have legal instruments to combat it. the problem is one of execution, and that is why, commissioner, i felt a certain lack of clarity when you spoke of this problem as a kind of statistical problem. analyses have been carried out, reports have been drawn up by europol and other organisations responsible for this. this is very important, but we have to act. i would like to draw attention to just one point, of course the government authorities of both the federal republic of germany and other countries have done a lot to counteract this phenomenon. but in reality, forced prostitution and the enslavement of children for sexual exploitation takes place in quiet alleys, in closed houses. if we don't get the citizens to cooperate, the people that these sexual abusers could possibly report to (because they are often without passports, money, contact possibilities and only through some private person can they reach the police station or this trust phone and report what is happening to them), then the same action, only organized, and not very widespread socially, will do little. i hope that the excellent organisation of the world cup by our german colleagues, for which we will probably congratulate them after the end of the world cup, will also be an opportunity to congratulate them on their fight against this phenomenon.
mr. chairman, please! thank you very much to the esteemed mrs. christa klaβ for a good job. the main sources of water pollution are poor farming practices, poor infrastructure, sewage systems, rural wastewater treatment plants, as well as brown and hard coal mining, and the issue of high salt water flow. the directive as drafted by the rapporteur will undoubtedly make a significant contribution to improving water quality in the european union. the use of organic fertilisers in agriculture is a serious problem. in many farms, fertiliser is exported after the grain is harvested, and the soil is burned, leaving the soil covered with snow until spring, and soluble nitrogen and phosphorus compounds enter the soil and pollute groundwater. therefore, if groundwater protection requires changes in agricultural or forestry practices that may result in a reduction in income in these sectors, a system of special aid should be introduced, which should be taken into account in the preparation of rural development plans under the reformed common agricultural policy. but the real problem with groundwater conservation is our mindset. for who is interested in what is not seen and hidden deep beneath the earth? education must therefore be an important element in the implementation of the directive. to bring about a "revolution of mind" in society, active participation is necessary. european initiatives such as interreg iii, a project in one of the polish cities, and magic, the management of groundwater resources in areas polluted by industry, can be excellent tools for achieving these objectives. the project involves various social groups, including local authorities, young people and entrepreneurs. these activities go beyond the scope of the groundwater directive but contribute to the main objectives of the directive. (the president read out the minutes)
mr. chairman, please! the chemical deterioration of groundwater has been going on for years, but with the development of the chemical industry, it has become much more intense. groundwater is moving and it will be difficult to achieve positive results in its conservation without changes in the areas of the union's neighbouring countries and beyond. so i'd like to address one of the many important issues. the draft directive provides for the establishment of maximum levels for pesticide content. but it must be said that the pesticides used for current production come from tens of thousands of tons of obsolete pesticides that have been accumulated in different countries and that are mostly poorly or not protected against rainwater, wind or humans who use these mixtures of different pesticides for current plant protection. it may seem that the amount of pesticides on the surface is decreasing, but we know that they are also found in groundwater. to protect groundwater, and by that i mean our health, we can, or rather we must, find the financial means to deactivate and dispose of these landfills.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. amendments nos 13 and 14 concern the implementing rules which should be adopted through the committee. the amendments avoid complicated procedures for adopting rules and ensure their uniform application in all member states. the commission is therefore in a position to accept these amendments in full. amendments nos 18 to 22 relate to public access to data and reflect the original intention of the commission proposal. the amendments are accepted in full, with the exception of amendment no 21, which is accepted in principle. the intention of amendment no 21 is to restore the original provision, which guarantees free access to data for the public, and this is a position which the commission can support. however, as mentioned above, there are certain categories of data which are economically difficult for information providers to make available free of charge. the final wording of this paragraph should therefore cover these specific cases. amendments nos 23 to 27 concern the exchange of data between public authorities and can be accepted in full with the exception of amendment no 24, which is accepted in part. the first part of amendment no 24 is indeed crucial because it ensures that the charging and licensing of public data providers is in accordance with the general obligation to exchange data. the second part of amendment no 24 concerns the level of charges, which is not necessarily appropriate in every case. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. all of them are accepted by the commission in full or in principle or in part, with the exception of amendment no 15, which concerns the participation of the interested parties in the preparatory discussions for the adoption of the implementing rules. amendment no 15 is not acceptable because it deletes a useful clarification contained in the council's text. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work and to thank her for the fact that she has been able to give us a very good report on the commission's proposals.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. annex position of the commission
the next item is the report drawn up by mr richard seeber on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the assessment and management of flood risks (com ((2006) 0015 - c6-0020/2006 - 2006/0005 ((cod))) (a6-0182/2006).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank mr. seeber for his work. i'm glad you did. today in this room, we talked about groundwater as the most important natural resource. we have to protect it from contamination. and now we're debating how we can protect ourselves from the destructive effects of water as an element, which is flooding. the need for close cooperation between the eu and non-eu countries in this area should be emphasised. of course, the principles of subsidiarity and flexibility must not be violated here. however, i believe that some unification is needed covering both the legal provisions and the principles of crisis management in the event of flooding, as well as ensuring full compatibility of rescue equipment. this will allow for rapid and coordinated assistance, which is very important in river basins that span several countries. the rapporteur rightly places a strong emphasis on flood prevention and the necessary protection and warning systems. in addition, adequate preparation of the population in the affected areas is needed, including through school education and a well-functioning civil defence system. in poland, where we also experienced flood damage this year in the carpathian basin and in lesser poland, volunteer fire brigades have been making a very serious contribution to rescue operations for many years - for which i would like to publicly thank them from this place. i would like to join those who see the negative impact of imprudent management of agricultural land, careless logging, the construction of housing estates in floodplains, and so on. for, note that only some natural disasters, including floods, are caused by forces of nature that are independent of man. yet, many of these disasters, often resulting in death, injury, and extensive damage, are the result of human irresponsibility or negligence. so let's be smart before we do any damage and minimize the losses. the directive we are debating is intended to help this, and hopefully it will be effective.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament and council directives on flood risk assessment and management are documents on phenomena that have been known for centuries. watercourses are changing as a result of river regulation, agricultural activities, deforestation and forest loss, and therefore training is needed to prepare for floods that could reduce the impact and risk. where we have dams, we have levees, we have folders, we have no water barriers, we have much less damage from the floods of the century. the roads were not destroyed, as long as there were high passes and high bridges. flood control programmes at the level of the catchment areas of municipalities, counties and regions of the european union should be carried out with great imagination and take advantage of existing experience. all these activities support the directives. i'd like to thank mr. richard seeber for his job.
mr president, this directive is an important step for the security of europe. in july 1997, poland suffered its worst flood in 200 years, with 2% of the country's land area inundated. the disaster caused enormous economic, social and moral damage - 55 people were killed, and several hundred thousand homes, factories, sewage treatment plants, schools, and historic sites were destroyed. the flood losses were estimated at pln 13 billion, i.e. about eur 3 billion. then floods swept across europe. the draft directive stresses that the highest priority of the plan is the protection of human life. between 1997 and 2005, more than 700 people died in europe as a result of floods. this should include the costs of economic damage, farm flooding, road, environmental damage due to chemical pollution, flooding of landfills, soil erosion. the current directive contains specific measures to minimise the damage caused by floods. however, ecological and environmental effects should be taken into account. in many parts of the european union, the flood restoration efforts have caused serious and irreversible damage to river fauna and forests. hydrotechnical works were carried out using techniques that irreversibly upset the balance in the river and forest ecosystems. so there is a need to give serious thought to ways of rebuilding flood-damaged areas in a way that preserves the ecological balance rather than destroys it.
mr. chairman, please! the document we are discussing today is certainly needed, as it deals with the issues of flood risk assessment and management. this is all the more so as floods are and will be the most frequent type of natural disaster due to climate change, but they can also occur as a result of the opening of water reservoirs by neighbouring countries. a delayed response, or lack thereof, can cause the collected rivers to overflow, causing environmental damage, property damage, and even death. heavy rains can also cause river floods, especially in central and northern europe, in some cross-border areas. however, the directive, written in this way, gives the impression that floods will be a predictable and controlled phenomenon within the union, as they will be managed by a group of experts. however, there is no indication of a problem of flooding in peripheral areas. in poland, the eastern border is also the external border of the european union with belarus and ukraine, running along the bug river. it is difficult to imagine coordination of actions such as the polish-belarusian rescue or cooperation within the river basin with the involvement of all relevant authorities. the even more difficult task is to link all the financial strategies and mechanisms, especially cohesion policy, to a rational policy aimed at eliminating or reducing the risk of flooding. on the western side of the bug, union experts, authorities, crisis management teams using risk maps and legal instruments, or financial expertise, may be able to ensure that the flood is controlled and calm, with no losses. however, a few metres further on, close to the eu border, in belarus or ukraine, the flooding of further human settlements and industrial plants can be very violent, completely uncontrolled and lead to environmental hazards. such a scenario is obviously contrary to the laws of nature, because natural disasters, and they are undoubtedly floods, do not know political boundaries. in the drafting of the directive, greater attention should be paid to cross-border areas with third countries, such as ukraine and belarus in the case of poland. this is a real danger of human and economic loss, and pollution of my country's environment, but also of other countries bordering on it. of course, flexibility is needed, especially in the case of the regulations implemented in the member states and the reduction of red tape.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to briefly describe the commission's views on a number of important issues raised by parliament. i would like to stress that most of the amendments adopted by the european parliament provide useful clarifications of the proposal and improve coherence, particularly with regard to the water framework directive. i would like to begin by commenting on the amendments which the commission can accept in their entirety, in principle or in part. floods and the risk management measures applied to deal with them have two aspects: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not damaged. the commission therefore agrees with the rapporteur that it is important to strike the right balance between flood risk management measures and environmental protection, while maintaining adequate references to the water framework directive. the commission therefore accepts the following amendments: amendment no 36 on the assessment of existing artificial flood protection infrastructure, amendment no 60 on the economic and environmental assessment of flood management measures and amendment no 74 on the priority of measures for the sustainable management of flood risk. as regards the impact of climate change, the commission agrees that this should be taken into account, in particular when reviewing flood risk assessments. the commission can therefore accept amendments nos 38 and 73, which strengthen the relevant provisions of the directive. the commission does not wish to impose an unnecessary administrative burden on the member states and shares the view that the member states should, during the first period of application of the directive, be able to use existing maps and diagrams which meet the requirements of the directive. this was emphasized by the commission in recital 13 of the proposal, so the commission can accept in principle the amendments proposed by parliament, namely amendments nos 37, 55 and 71. effective and efficient implementation of the directive requires cooperation and coordination between the main flood risk management bodies in watersheds that cross administrative and political borders of several countries. the commission can therefore accept as a whole or in principle a number of amendments which further clarify these obligations. i could mention amendment no 62 in its entirety and amendment no 61 in principle. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. firstly, the commission considers that citizens have the right to protection against floods of any origin. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the floods. nor should the information necessary for their mapping be restricted. the commission cannot therefore accept amendments nos 14, 27, 42, 43 and 47. in this context, amendment no 51 is also inadmissible because it is not in line with the rest of the directive. secondly, some amendments add unnecessary references or overlap with other elements of community legislation or create legal ambiguity. i refer in particular to amendments nos 53, 59 and 63. the commission cannot accept them. finally, the commission cannot accept amendment no 23, which seeks to remove the recital in the preamble to the charter of fundamental rights. the commission can accept 14 of the 20 new amendments, either in part or in full. i would like to refer to one particular amendment which cannot be accepted for very important reasons. this is amendment no 81, which proposes a derogation for national river basins under certain conditions. there are two reasons: firstly, the commission proposal applies to all watersheds, national and international. both citizens and businesses require the same level of flood risk protection and management, regardless of the type or geographical location of the water catchment area. any attempt to limit the scope of the directive to national water catchment areas would create discriminatory situations and set an undesirable precedent in the environmental policy of the european union. secondly, in terms of legal clarity, i have already mentioned that the commission supports a number of amendments which set out the conditions for the transitional phase to be used in a way that is compatible with the directive. amendment no 81 runs counter to this objective and creates legal uncertainty for citizens. in conclusion, mr president, i am pleased to announce that the commission accepts 71 amendments, 16 of which are in full and 55 in principle or in part. for the reasons i have mentioned, the commission cannot accept 24 amendments. i shall be submitting to the secretariat of parliament a full list of the commission's positions on the amendments. i would like to congratulate mr seeber once again on his efforts and his excellent work.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. annex position of the commission
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on action for tourism, by luís queiró, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats (o-0049/2006 - b6-0307/2006).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. tourism is an important aspect of social, cultural and economic life. it's a challenge we have to face. the enlargement of the european union to include new member states requires a new policy in the field of tourism to be tailored to current and future needs. it is therefore right that the european commission has put forward a communication on this matter and that the european parliament adopted a resolution on 8 september 2005 on new prospects and new challenges for sustainable european tourism. it's been over nine months since then and nothing has happened. let us hope that the question of mr luis queiro will wake up the european commission to act, and the excuse of the lack of a constitution is unacceptable, because tourism was before the constitution was thought of, and will be, even if it is not adopted and must be cared for and developed. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that there are other problems besides those mentioned in the question, and they are no less important, such as the development of tourism in the new member states, in regions that are little known, where the beauty of the landscape and the balance of nature have not been disturbed, where traditional culture is still alive. particular attention should be paid to the so-called eastern wall, i.e. the poorest regions of the union but the richest in development potential. a special, well-thought-out programme is needed for these regions. for the old member states, and especially for regions widely recognised as attractive, the problem is the excess of tourists and the resulting effects and losses in natural resources and material culture. the preservation of historic wooden structures, the use of historic towns for tourism and the development of an effective rural agro-tourism programme are very serious problems. let us remember that the money invested in tourism is the fastest to return, that tourism gives a lot to a person, but developed without conception and control can bring unrecoverable losses.
mr. chairman, please! not only is tourism a fifth wheel on a cart, somehow forcibly attached to the transport committee, we are also debating this late, late at night. night tourism is a bad idea. one of the most interesting programmes, which is also of great importance for tourism, is the so-called rural renewal programmes. they are already a long-standing tradition in germany and austria, and are slowly being introduced in other countries, including poland. however, these are purely local programmes, sometimes with regional support. however, it seems that their already recognised merits should also make them the focus of the european union's interest, including, of course, financial interest. and here i have a very specific question: could the european commission consider setting up a special programme to promote and financially support rural regeneration? is it not worthwhile to take these initiatives on a much broader scale than before? i think these are rhetorical questions, but i would very much like the commission's answer to be more than rhetorical.
i'm closing the debate.
member of the commission. mr president, today is an important day for science. with your support, we can look ahead to a eur 54.5 billion research programme to be launched by the end of this year. eur 54.5 billion in current prices is less than we had proposed, but it is a substantial increase on the current programme and we also have to thank parliament for that. together, we are making the seventh framework programme a programme for boosting growth and jobs, for promoting a sustainable and healthy europe. it is also a programme for a stronger europe: research unites in diversity. for that to happen, we need cooperation, ideas, people and capacities and those are the titles of the four main axes in the framework programme. the cooperation programme will bring together our best talents from across europe to research and develop and find answers on economic opportunities and societal challenges, for example in the areas of health and energy. the ideas programme will introduce a new mindset in supporting and conducting research in europe. the people programme will attract and motivate the best scientists to work across europe or beyond, for the benefit of european research. the capacities programme will ensure that europe can rely on excellent capacities for conducting research in all parts of europe. our continuous efforts towards simplification will ensure that we attract the best participants, irrespective of size or origin, and that we get the best value for our investment. i am impressed by the consensus that has emerged in parliament on framework programme that delivers on the ambition. i wholeheartedly thank mr chichester, chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, the rapporteur, mr buzek, the shadow rapporteurs and all other members of parliament who made this possible. your objective is to further improve the seventh framework programme. i am pleased to say that the commission will be able to accept no less than two thirds of your amendments, either as a whole or in principle. some other amendments are, in our assessment, too detailed for the framework programme, or they go beyond the remit of research and development. we will quickly come to an agreement on those. some amendments create difficulties for the commission. they concern topics for which we have a shared understanding of their importance and priority, but not yet on how to realise them. i do not think that they should become stumbling blocks. they relate, for example, to keeping space and security together as one priority, avoiding the definition of a quantitative target for sme participation, preventing the introduction of support in the people programme for interregional mobility within the same country and ensuring that technology platforms remain flexible, bottom-up and industry-driven in defining strategic research agendas and guiding their implementation. let me spend a little time on two issues which have been the subject of your intense debate. i should like to start with the european research council. this is probably the most exciting new development in the european research landscape. parliament’s strong support will help to make it a reality. we have to get the structure right, so that independence is guaranteed in support of scientific excellence and administrative capacity is available in support of efficiency. the community method can guarantee this and it is for this reason that we have proposed to set up the erc within the remit of the community institutions. i am sure that we will be able to accommodate much of the substance of parliament’s amendments in a way that will also help to create common ground with the council. however, i am afraid that a review in 2008, after only one year of operation, will not be very meaningful. much as i understand parliament’s wish to be associated with the european research council’s success, i do not think we have the appropriate legal basis to decide on the follow-up to the review in codecision. i am most concerned, however, about proposals to predetermine the future structure of the european research council even at this stage. what message would we give out with such an automatic change of structure? that we got it wrong in the first place? that the erc we set up will not be independent? i simply cannot accept that logic. it would not help us in our joint aim to create a european research council of which we can all be proud. i believe that we are enabling the erc to be independent and efficient. i have heard professor kafatos, chairman of the erc scientific council, say on several occasions that the structure proposed by the commission, as well as the stance taken by the commission, ensures precisely that. we propose that an independent review should be carried out, with the full involvement of various parties, not least the scientific council, in time for the future structure of the erc to be considered not later than 2010. the review should look explicitly at the advantages and the disadvantages of a structure based on an executive agency and a structure based on article 171 of the treaty. the erc’s structures and mechanisms should be modified in accordance with its findings. this should be done in consultation with parliament, but always with a view to maintaining the total independence of the erc from any political influence. as regards the administrative and staffing costs of the erc: yes, we want a lean and cost-effective implementation structure, but, no, at this stage we do not know enough to impose strict and specific limits for administrative costs that might risk undermining the functioning of the erc at its outset. let me turn to the issue of stem cell research. i know that this has been a matter of intense discussion amongst many of you and i should like to say at the outset that i have profound respect for each personal opinion. the commission learned from the intense debate on this issue during the negotiations on the sixth framework programme. we are convinced that, in view of the diversity of approaches existing in europe, we can only propose a responsible, cautious and practical approach, evaluating and selecting this type of research on a case-by-case basis and excluding certain specific research areas. the procedure established for the sixth framework programme ensures that some major health challenges and the hopes of the patients concerned are addressed through this research. at the same time, it guarantees respect for fundamental ethical principles in a way that it is unique for a research programme covering 25 countries or more. this procedure has proved to work and to be acceptable to member states and to the scientists. what we propose is nothing less and nothing more than that the procedure be continued for the seventh framework programme. the commission acknowledges very positively the outcome of the vote on this issue by the itre committee, which is entirely in line with the commission’s proposal and provides even more useful clarification. it would be misleading to present a deviation from this approach as a true compromise between proponents and opponents of embryonic stem cell research. for example, introducing a so-called cut-off date that would make human embryonic stem cell lines eligible or not eligible for community funds would have far-reaching consequences. such a cut-off date has no scientific or objective basis. it might prevent the european researchers from using the lines they have created and force them to work with lines produced outside europe. in addition, it might severely compromise access to the best quality lines which, in this very new field of research, are generally considered to be those most recently produced. it might unduly limit access to the specific stem cell lines which are indispensable for patients. in other words, it has to be clear that any date will compromise the label of scientific excellence in this sector which i am personally eager to attach to this seventh framework programme, as long as ethical concerns are taken fully into consideration, which i believe is entirely the case with our proposal. one last word on subsidiarity: the current strict procedures and limitations on embryonic stem cell research entirely respect the subsidiarity principle. relying on the ethical standards of either the most restrictive or the most liberal countries would simply be against the basic principles of the european union. i cannot end this introduction without mentioning the very broad agreement on the euratom programme, which includes the important international scientific project on iter, and the joint research centre, whose mission you considered very important. i am very curious to listen to the debate now and hope that it will be possible to add some short concluding remarks afterwards. this parliament has truly made excellent progress. i hope we can maintain this momentum. getting fp7 started in time will require an increased effort from all of us. time matters! fp7 is a central part of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. it is on that count that europe can and should deliver on time. this will be an important signal to our partners in the world, to the whole of europe and to our scientific community. i think that our three institutions have never been so close to each other in deciding a framework programme. with your support, we will be able to reach our current goals on time and mobilise our researchers to start participating, as from the end of this year, in the seventh framework programme and in the realisation of the european research area that turns knowledge into true growth and true jobs. together we can prove that lisbon is back again. (applause)
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. after more than a year of intense debate, the european parliament will vote on the seventh framework programme at first reading the day after tomorrow. the report is the result of the work of many people to whom i would like to express my sincere thanks: the luxembourg, british, finnish and, above all, austrian presidencies, the european commission, and above all commissioner potočnik, the members of the committee on industry and its management, and in particular the shadow rapporteurs present here, the rapporteurs of the opinions of the eight parliamentary committees. i would like to thank the coordinators and advisers of the political groups, the advisers and the officials of the committee on industry, research and energy. the debate in the european parliament was open and transparent. the working groups met for several hours a day at certain times. there was a time and a place for everyone to express their views and comments. i think our work together has produced a good report. i have also attended a large number of conferences, seminars and meetings outside the european parliament, organised by the european commission, member states, universities, regions, ngos. there was a great deal of interest in research and science at european level. this enthusiasm and potential must be harnessed and the expectations of the seventh framework programme must be met. the discussion was not easy, especially with the lack of financial prospects. the budget negotiated is not a budget of dreams, but more than 50 billion euros for research and science and innovation show the way for the european union. this is the way forward for the lisbon strategy and the knowledge-based economy. the european parliament strongly supports the structure and main objectives of the seventh framework programme. this programme takes account of the guidelines of the kok and marimon reports and, in particular, of the locatelli report presented by the european parliament in early 2005. the seventh framework programme therefore contains entirely new ideas and tools, such as: the european research council, linked to basic research; joint technological initiatives aimed at science-industry cooperation and innovation; and initiatives such as investment in research infrastructure. and we have new priorities: security and space, and socioeconomic research. the seventh framework programme also ensures a proper continuation of the sixth programme - the construction of the european research area, launched by the previous commissioner, mr philippe busquin. the continuation concerns the current thematic priorities, the very good experience of mobility and training of researchers, and in particular the marie skłodowska-curie programme, is being continued. the european parliament has its own priorities in the seventh framework programme. let me list four of the most important. first, excellence as the criterion for all projects and decisions under the programme. this also requires making full use of the possibilities in each project: experience, research infrastructure, top scientists, achievements in the different countries and regions of the union, and the efficient use of financial resources. secondly, the chapter 'people' and all the initiatives for the full development of scientific staff in europe and the fight against brain drain. parliament's third priority is basic research, described in the 'ideas' chapter and linked to the european research council. this is the kind of initiative that scientists in the european union have been waiting for for years. and the fourth priority of the european parliament: focus on innovation, overcoming the european paradox good research, relatively poor innovation. we need to bring science closer to technology, universities closer to industry, so we are focusing on small and medium-sized enterprises and their participation in research. we strongly support european technology platforms. we have combined the preparation of the seventh framework programme in the european parliament with the 'competitiveness and innovation' programme. i would like to thank its rapporteur, mr jorgos chatsimarkakis, for his particularly fruitful cooperation. the amendment was introduced around 1700, which shows the great interest in the programme. each amendment is the result of talks and meetings in sometimes remote parts of europe. the compromise we have finally managed to reduce the number of amendments to 315 and they do not affect the structure or the basic ideas of the programme. as regards the content of the amendments, i would like to stress a few of the most important points. firstly, compromise amendments are of crucial importance to parliament, and we will put the greatest emphasis on these amendments in the negotiations with the council and the commission. secondly, the budgetary adjustment is of particular importance as it reflects the priorities of the european parliament, i.e. people, the european research council, basic research, small and medium-sized enterprises, energy and health. thirdly, there is no doubt that the european research council needs to be fully independent and autonomous. fourthly, it is important to simplify procedures and facilitate the participation of smes in the framework programme. fifthly, the emphasis on emerging scientists, who are often the most creative and innovative, must be given priority in the development of their scientific careers in europe. sixth, the division of priorities between thematic areas, security and space, seems essential. and finally, as rapporteur, i have tried to make the widest possible compromise on embryonic egg research. it is not easy, and i hope that on thursday we will have a solution that will be supported by a large majority in parliament. as for the euratom part, the committee on industry, energy and research has accepted the european commission's proposal with a clear majority. i would also like to express my appreciation for the work of the european union's joint research centre. the centre's research is part of the framework programmes and provides highly valuable results. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the european parliament has acted swiftly, efficiently and decisively in its work on the seventh framework programme. he showed tremendous maturity and political responsibility. i hope that the pace will be maintained and the seventh framework programme will start on 1 january 2007. the european scientific community and industry are looking forward to a successful start to the seventh framework programme. we all in the european union are waiting for the lisbon strategy to succeed. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! it is highly immoral to force member states to finance things they consider immoral. this concerns a project to fund research on stem cells derived from embryos. so far, studies on stem cells derived from mature tissues have yielded positive results, therapeutically useful results. studies on embryonic stem cells have not yet yielded useful results. meanwhile, at least 80% of the funding for stem cell research shall be for stem cells derived from embryos. why would you do that? because the results of the embryonic stem cell research will give the cell line a future, and therefore a future of profits for the pharmaceutical companies. the results of studies on mature stem cells provide a technology where the patient's own tissues are processed into a medicine. it's not gonna make money for the drug companies. the european union should not fund research on embryonic stem cells that raises moral concerns. we need to support the gargani amendment.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wanted to thank everyone for the discussion; the whole of the european parliament has been working on the seventh framework programme. the industry committee received opinions from as many as eight other committees. i just wanted to briefly comment on the most important points. the framework programme has a drawback: insufficient funding. this is the only eu budget that is growing by an average of around 30% a year compared to the sixth framework programme, but we were expecting double the increase. hence our lack of achievement and sense of missed opportunity. now it's about making the most of what we have. the seventh framework programme is intended to be the steering wheel of the lisbon strategy. we need to unlock the potential of the 25 european countries, we need to achieve synergies with national programmes and with regional actions. our motto is perfection in every design. the second slogan is: science closer to industry, emphasis on innovation. and the third thing is basic research and the independence of the scientists in that research. and finally, fourthly, people: we must ensure that talent is developed, that the best people have the best conditions for implementing their ideas, otherwise we will not win the growth and employment strategy of the union. two thematic priorities: health no doubt, and energy for europe clean, safe, secure; we are short of oil and gas. we absolutely must focus on renewable energy, clean coal technologies and nuclear energy. we can't give up any of them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. that's a great pace, let's keep it up. i call on the council to adopt a common position as soon as possible. thank you, commissioner potočnik, for your excellent cooperation. i am convinced that the european parliament and all of us here are ready to continue this cooperation, and we must be on time.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the problem of avian influenza has returned to the european parliament. that's good, because there's no danger we can ignore. we need to be prepared for emergencies, to prevent them and to deal with epidemics. we also need to guard against the media's induction of threat psychosis and the various unauthorized lobbying activities of the manufacturers of antiviral drugs and vaccines. especially since we know very little about their effectiveness and almost nothing about their side effects. i therefore consider it necessary to develop an international system for the control of avian influenza and to establish within that system a network of scientific research centres and early detection laboratories. second, to prepare the administration and the public in the field for a crisis. thirdly, to ensure that the legal and economic basis is in place to help poultry producers in regions at risk of a pandemic. the european commission should play a key role in all these activities within the european union. the commission should also work closely with its european partners and with those from other continents, especially those affected by avian influenza, and i am thinking particularly of asia and africa. in conclusion, we need to develop a comprehensive and concrete crisis management plan at international, regional, local and national levels. only such a plan gives us a chance of properly securing and counteracting the effects.
mr. chairman, please! bird flu, like other viral infections, can be very deadly. a document on the preparedness and response plan for a pandemic influenza outbreak is likely to be needed and helpful. but i wanted to bring attention to another problem that's rarely addressed in the context of broad prevention. plans to decentralize poultry farming and return to natural feeding methods should be considered, as poultry living in such conditions and fed naturally will be more resilient and their meat is healthier for humans than that obtained from factory farms, crowded flocks, equally and artificially fed to this purpose, raised in very sometimes stressful conditions. furthermore, the profit-making farming that is done in such a reckless way is harmful, and the profits are subsequently destroyed with the need to kill billions of unresistant and sick birds.
mr. chairman, please! on 25 may, the 17th russia-eu summit took place in sochi. the main event of the meeting was the signing of the agreement on readmission and visa facilitation for citizens of the european union and the russian federation, which had been announced several months earlier. no other documents were signed, nor was a joint statement issued. the sochi summit showed that the list of issues that divide russia and the european union is growing. such controversial issues include, inter alia, the policy towards belarus, moldova and ukraine, the situation in russia itself, especially respect for human rights, and above all energy policy. it is also becoming increasingly difficult to find areas where the agreement can be developed in a concrete way with tangible effects. at the same time, however, both sides make a clear effort to present their cooperation as friendly and constructive. to this end, they avoid sensitive topics in public and instead highlight areas of agreement, often disproportionately to their actual importance. i think this is the right course of action, a course which i hope will avoid the mistakes made by poland in its relations with our eastern neighbour.
member of the commission. the honourable member is correct when he says that, especially in the sme sector, there is something that you could call ‘paying too much’. businesses, including smes, and consumers are paying several billion euros too much every year because banks do not compete enough, and that is one of the problems that we are facing and on which we have to act. let there be no misunderstanding about that. markets are still fragmented and we do not yet have a functioning single market for payments in europe. that is the main purpose of our action: there will be change; there must be change, to be frank about it. all players, in particular in the financial industry, must work for this. you can be sure that your commissioner will do her utmost.
member of the commission. every time you use a card for payment you bear a cost of up to 2.5%, which is equivalent to a consumption tax. if the payment cards business becomes more competitive – and that is what we are pushing for – then every household could save up to several hundred euro per year. competitiveness, competitiveness, competitiveness: that’s it!
member of the commission. the commission’s competition enforcement priorities in the pharmaceutical sector have two key objectives: one is to tackle intra-brand competition between the producers of patented prescription products and the parallel importers of those products; the other is to promote competition in innovation for patented medicines between the pharmaceutical producers, which has declined in europe in the last decade, and to encourage intra-brand competition from generic substitutes after patent expiry. that should, in time, contribute to ensuring a wider choice of both patented and generic pharmaceutical products to european patients at affordable prices. due account is taken of the need for the industry to recover its research and development costs, given the industry’s heavy dependence on innovation for its further competitiveness. in that context, the honourable member can be assured that the commission is not circumspect about rigorously applying the anti-monopoly provisions in the pharmaceutical sector, for generic competition is an area which has suffered from under-enforcement in the past. however, the importance of the generic segment for the provision of affordable medicines in the enlarged union cannot be ignored. that is why the commission will give greater priority to competition in the generic sector in the immediate future. on the issue of parallel trade, the commission has always taken an active approach to combating restrictions on parallel trade in pharmaceuticals. in the commission’s opinion, parallel imports are a legal form of trade between the member states, constituting an alternative means of supply in the import countries. the commission is aware of the supply quota systems put in place by several pharmaceutical companies. under those systems, pharmaceutical companies unilaterally allocate a quota of medicines to their wholesalers. in principle the quota covers domestic demand for the medicines in question in a particular member state. the european courts have held that such unilateral supply quota systems are not within the scope of article 81 of the ec treaty when there is not enough evidence that they are the result of an agreement with wholesalers. however, another type of practice aimed at curbing parallel trade such as ‘dual pricing systems’ – which, as you know, are systems where prices differ according to whether the product is for local consumption or for export to the other member states – has been held to infringe article 81 in, for example, the glaxo-wellcome decision of may 2001. the greek national competition authority has initiated proceedings against restrictions on parallel trade on the basis of article 82, which prohibits the abuse of a dominant position. there are also parallel civil litigation proceedings pending in greece, dealing with the same matter. the commission is monitoring these developments closely. article 152 makes clear that the organisation and the delivery of health services and medical care are the responsibility of the member states. the competent national authorities are free to make their own decisions on pricing and reimbursement for pharmaceuticals, provided that these decisions are made in a transparent manner and do not create barriers to trade. the commission understands that in poland the price of reimbursable pharmaceuticals is subject to a ministry of health decision following representations from the industry. in discharging that duty, the polish authorities could and do use prices in other eu member states – including low-price countries – as a reference point. it should also be noted that the commission has recently launched a project under the pharmaceutical forum, which addresses the issue of national pricing and reimbursement practices. that project will take account of the interests of patients, member states, wholesalers, manufacturers and other stakeholders.
madam president! i would first like to thank the commissioner for such a detailed reply. i've never seen such a precise answer to a question. my additional request is that you clarify, however, that the situation in poland is such that parallel distribution cannot be used to its full extent because the drug manufacturers impose on pharmaceutical wholesalers bans on the import of lower-priced drugs and hence ... (the president read out the minutes)
member of the commission. it is true that both questions deal with more or less the same issue, so i will cover them in one reply. i am aware of the problems raised regarding polish exports to russia and more recently ukraine and the commission is involved – and my services as well – in trying to sort out the situation. i had meetings with russian officials and tried to emphasize that from the technical, the veterinary point of view, the polish authorities are committed to the necessary measures to make sure that the russian concerns are addressed. it is very important – and we insisted on this with the russian authorities – that solutions are found as quickly as possible. it is also extremely important that the polish authorities implement these agreed measures and convince the russian authorities that they have been implemented and are now in force. in that respect, my services will visit poland very soon to work together with the polish authorities to gather this evidence which can be used in negotiations and discussions with the russian side. my colleague mr mandelson has been dealing with this issue from the trade point of view, especially since, from a technical point of view, the requirements have been met, and it now becomes a trade issue. we also raised the matter in our discussions within the context of russia's wto accession negotiations. it is important that russia's sps measures comply with the wto sps agreement. we are following this issue. we are in constant communication and coordination with the polish authorities and now it has been agreed that the commission will formally participate in the discussions with the polish and russian sides. at the beginning, given that it related to exports which fall under the responsibility of the member states, the commission was facilitating the discussions but could not be part of them. nevertheless, not only has it now been agreed by both sides, but also, given that some of the issues raised by russia relate to the exports of other member states through poland and also to european community legislation as a whole, it provides legal standing for the commission also to be involved in these discussions. as i said, our experts will shortly visit poland to gather information and evidence to be used during the meetings with the russian side. as far as the ukraine measures are concerned, the commission met with the ukrainian chief veterinary officer in april, and asked him to speed up efforts to get the problem solved. it seems that ukraine has agreed to lift the ban, but it has not taken place yet. today there was to be a meeting between the european union and ukraine – the sub-committee on trade – and this issue would be raised there too. we will follow this issue very closely and will continue to play an active role, but it is also very important that poland actively demonstrates to its trade partner that legitimate concerns are taken seriously and are being met. in that effort also, we will support poland.
madam president! i would like to thank the commission very warmly for its interest in polish exports to the russian and ukrainian markets, but i would also like to point out that this problem has not been resolved for seven months. these are very serious losses for polish exporters. if this continues any longer, the losses will be even greater. moreover, some exporters will be permanently displaced from the russian and ukrainian markets, so we insist that the european commission take decisive action on this matter.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr giuseppe gargani on behalf of the committee on legal affairs on the effects of the judgment of the court of justice of 13 september 2005 (c-176/03 commission v council) [2006/2007 (ini)) ] (a6-0172/2006).
mr. chairman, please! the establishment of a single legal system based on common values and on the principle of the primacy of community law and close cooperation between the member states and the european institutions is paramount to the proper functioning of the single internal market of the european union. any action aimed at ensuring the effective functioning of community law stemming from the first pillar should be supported. the first community pillar is the only one that allows european legislation to be adopted in a democratic manner and ensures adequate judicial control. the judgment of the court of justice of 13 september is of great importance for the future development of community law. the court held that the precise definition of the legal basis of a measure must refer to the object and content of the measure itself, and therefore the decision on environmental protection, which wrongly identified the basis as the third pillar rather than the first, was annulled. in the light of that judgment, ongoing legislative initiatives whose legal basis may be considered to be erroneous should be withdrawn or modified. in addition, the possibility of initiating the legislative procedure on new legal bases for acts adopted under the third pillar, which according to the judgment can be considered to be wrongly based, should be considered. the tribunal's conclusion should not, however, be automatically extended to every possible area covered by the first pillar. it should therefore apply to areas falling within the community's basic principles, objectives and competences and individual cases should be examined on a case-by-case basis in close cooperation between the commission, the council and the european parliament. the member states are principally responsible for the proper application of community law. therefore, the conditions for including criminal law provisions in the first pillar should be clear and pre-defined.
mr. chairman, please! the council's framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law was intended to respond to the worrying increase in environmental crime, and this intention is to be commended. but the way in which the council has done this is not to be commended, because it has led to a dispute, and a double dispute. the first is institutional in nature and, since the treaties in force do not clearly and intelligibly define who is to do what in the union, there is therefore no clear division of competences between the union's institutions, and in particular between the council, the member states and parliament. the second aspect of the dispute concerns the legal basis relied on by the council in adopting the contested decision, wrongly relying on pillar iii, whereas the matter in question does not fall within pillar iii but within the community's competence in the field of environmental protection. therefore, the council of the european union had no right to take the above decision. by that decision, the council encroached on the competences conferred on the community by the community treaty and infringed the treaty on european union, which gives priority to those competences. moreover, by choosing the wrong legal basis, the council has deprived the european parliament of any influence on matters relating to environmental protection, which are clearly of a community nature and fall within its competence. i am sure that if the european union had a constitution, which defines the limits of competence, which defines who does what in the european union, there would be no dispute. we would have a clear law and the european court of justice would not have to intervene.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr martina roure on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the proposal for a council framework decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters (com (2005) 0475 - c6-0436/2005 - 2005/0202cns) (a6-0192/2006).
mr. chairman, please! this framework decision is certainly very much needed. it is necessary to increase the possibilities for cooperation between the judicial systems of the member states and because it will increase the scope of protection of personal data and thus increase the rights of individuals in the framework of third-pillar cooperation. after the terrorist attacks that have struck our continent, we see how important this kind of good cooperation is. unfortunately, there is a persistent lack of mutual trust between member states in judicial cooperation. in many cases this is justified, as the level of protection is often different. however, if we want to build a coherent area of justice, freedom and security, if we want to achieve reciprocity in the recognition of decisions by the judicial authorities in the future, decisions such as today's framework decision are certainly necessary. the libe commission has made amendments to the draft which certainly improve the draft and make it more precise and consistent with what we already have in the protection of personal data in the first pillar. but two general aspects cannot be overlooked. i hope that this is the first problem that the protection of personal data regulated by this framework decision will correspond to the protection of data applied in the implementation of the principle of accessibility in the framework of the cooperation of the parties regulated by the treaty of rome. on the other hand, i hope that the adoption of this instrument will mean that the eu institutions will no longer have any justification for delaying the work on the vis and sis legislative package, as their adoption is in the vital interest of the new member states.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr ioannis varvitsiotis on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the draft council framework decision on the european enforcement order and the transfer of sentenced persons between the member states of the eu [07307/2005 - c6-0139/2005 - 2005/0805 ((cns)) ] (a6-0187/2006).
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. with a view to combating all forms of crime within the european union, it is necessary to promote the strengthening of mutual trust between national judicial authorities and to strengthen mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters. an initiative taken by some member states aims to speed up the process of transferring persons convicted in one member state to another eu country with which that person is in any way connected, i.e. is a national of that country, has a permanent residence there, or is closely linked to it in the area of sanctions involving deprivation of liberty or other security measures imposed on that person. in addition, the decision to transfer a convicted person to serve his sentence in another country depends on the likelihood of better conditions for the convicted person's social rehabilitation, which i would like to emphasise. however, attention should be paid to the differences in penalties applied in the various member states. it is important to apply penalties imposed in one country carefully to the law implementing that penalty. the victim or the person harmed by the sentenced person should be informed of the transfer of the sentenced person to another member state. this is the position taken by the council in its framework decision on the position of victims in criminal proceedings. their equal treatment, respect for their dignity and right to participate in the proceedings should be guaranteed and their situations taken into account in the event of a claim for compensation. every effort should be made to ensure a smooth transfer procedure for sentenced persons by eliminating unnecessary bureaucratic formalities and by clearly defining the applicable legal framework.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs brepoels on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (com ((2005) 0399 - c6-0256/2005 - 2005/0166 ((cod))) ] (a6-0124/2006).
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have one minute to draw attention to the conclusions of the report by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, which unfortunately have not been implemented. the values that individuals hold and their behaviour are influenced by what they consider to be the norm in their social environments. the second conclusion is that control policy has a greater impact on social norms than media campaigns and educational approaches. if young people in particular consider even experimental drug use to be normal and socially acceptable, this has a crucial impact on their values and behaviour towards the drugs they use. it is a pity that drawing such conclusions has been paid for by millions of addicts, thousands of young deaths as a result of the pernicious, experimental liberalization that divides drugs into soft and hard, as if harmless, which continues. talking about soft drugs as safe is a very dangerous manipulation that allows addiction to be initiated and spread.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
the next item is the report by tatjana ždanok, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the framework strategy for non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all (ini) 2005/2191 (a6-0189/2006).
mr. chairman, please! the framework strategy on non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all covers a number of areas of action. because of its social effects, it seems to be particularly affecting young people. the lack of access to school and the difficulties young people face in learning the curriculum and obtaining a job are already leading to a decline in their chances of success in life. this is particularly true of pathological environments, ethnic groups, national minorities. in this respect, the actions of local governments, social organisations and the state are important. i can quote a pattern of behaviour from new zealand. maori children were performing very poorly in school, so the researchers began to look for the cause of this situation - whether it was the teachers, the school, or the pathologically incapable children. a research team was set up to answer the questions raised. it turns out that children are capable, but their psyche and their traditions require that we verify the forms of learning. the changes were made to give them equal opportunity in society. action should be taken in the european union to create the right conditions for roma youth to study. particular attention should be paid to young people from pathological families who have little chance of education, employment or social mobility. the training and preparation for work and life of children with disabilities, whose position depends to a large extent on the wealth of their parents and community, as well as the labour market, is a major problem. the problem is complex and requires specific support from the state, local authorities, social organisations and support especially in the poorest regions of the european union. it is particularly difficult to create opportunities for children who, in addition to their disability, come from pathological backgrounds or ethnic groups. special conditions should be created for this group of children in the framework of the measures adopted. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs tatjana ždanoce, for producing a much-needed document.
mr. chairman, please! the report we are discussing this evening is of fundamental importance to the citizens of the european union, because it is about combating all the forms of discrimination that we are still facing in the 21st century, and in the most advanced economies. the social and economic consequences of discrimination against citizens are very serious and the fight against it should be based on broad education from an early age and effective information campaigns based on best practices. the european commission's designation of 2007 as the european year of equal opportunities is a good step towards combating discrimination, which will hopefully help to protect the rights of individuals and raise awareness of the different forms of discrimination. however, the funds allocated to the equal opportunities year are insufficient to produce the expected results and these activities should therefore be continued in the following years. member states should endeavour to guarantee equality of social and political rights for all persons living in the european union. being different cannot mean being inferior, and all citizens of the european union should have the same rights to a decent life and equal opportunities for professional development. i therefore wholeheartedly support mrs ždanok's report and congratulate her on the well-drafted document.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate which has taken place and which clearly expresses the european parliament's will to support a series of measures in the field of equal opportunities, the fight against discrimination and the fight for equal rights. you have spoken from different angles about different aspects of this continuing effort by the european union, which, as i said in my opening speech, is one of the foundations on which our union is built. so let me just make a very brief comment on some of the points. as regards the question of positive measures, i think that to speak of positive discrimination is not correct in any respect, because what is meant is really measures that remove disadvantages, not measures that unduly favour someone. european legislation allows for these positive measures. so we decided to assess and collect examples of positive action in individual countries through a working group, and i think that will be important. the important question of data collection was also mentioned. i have already made my point in the opening statement, but let me say it again. european legislation does not prevent the collection of relevant data. of course, data protection is important from an individual's point of view, but if we want to use it as properly and correctly processed anonymous data, it is possible and it is therefore a matter of formulating appropriate methodologies. i have mentioned the reports which we wish to formulate as a means of measuring equality of opportunity or, respectively, of assessing the level of equality of opportunity, and to this end, of course, the necessary statistical data are required and i think that is therefore a question of appropriate methodology, but there is, as i said, no obstacle in terms of the structure of european law. the important issue that was positively assessed was 2007. i think this is really an opportunity to look at equal opportunities from all possible angles and give a lot of clarity to our efforts and give a lot of strong momentum for development in the next period. as regards legislation there are currently two basic directives in force, these directives are a very significant development and i must say that it is clear at present that precise and reliable implementation by the member states has not yet been achieved in many cases, although it is clear that member states are making considerable efforts to apply these directives. the european commission will therefore endeavour to use all the legal means at its disposal, because, as i have said, it is extremely important to apply these measures in practice in order to achieve a real result. the question of new legal instruments is, of course, open. as i have already said, we are considering this question because, in my view, there is a very clear principle that if legislation is necessary, it must be implemented, but on the other hand, it is always very necessary to consider whether the same effect cannot be achieved with current and valid instruments. we are looking very seriously at this question of possible further legislation and will probably have results in 2007. ladies and gentlemen, once again, let me thank you for the debate and the report. of course, i do not know with what result the report will be discussed and approved by parliament, but in any case the present discussion has already been clear, enriching and provides the commission with a good guide for further work.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr. chairman, please! the european council, at its next meeting in brussels, is to discuss once again the future of the constitutional treaty, and there is an indian proverb: if you find yourself sitting on a dead mustang, get off. the constitutional treaty, after being rejected in referendums by the french and dutch, is just such a dead mustang, no matter how many other member states' parliaments accept it. it is hard to imagine that any french or dutch leader would ever again propose the same document to his people. the treaty also clearly shows the desire to create a common european state, although in recent years we have seen processes in europe that go in exactly the opposite direction. we are witnessing the emergence of eight independent states from yugoslavia, one of which is now in the european union, and others are knocking on the eu's door. in spain, for example, the separatist tendencies of catalonia are hard to ignore, and in belgium it is becoming increasingly difficult to keep wallonia and flanders together. it is therefore impossible to accept a document that goes against these objective processes. so let us get off this dead mustang and get on to the issues that really matter to europe and its people. these include measures to promote entrepreneurship and job creation, reforms to boost growth and increase tax revenues to enable more spending on social programmes, education, public health and pensions. if the european union is successful in solving these problems, europe will function well without a constitutional treaty.
mr. chairman, please! the european council is once again returning to the draft constitution for europe, this time a dead document that is trying to revive itself. some commentators call it political necrophilia. the citizens of the member states of the european union do not want the constitution and their will must be respected. this is something that is not being seen by commissioner wallström, who recently said at a meeting in krakow that the most important thing is that the european constitution be adopted. however, she did not say what specific problems the constitution solves for the citizens of the member states and what about the citizens of those countries which have already rejected it in democratic referendums. the constitutional treaty is a threat to democracy, it has nothing to do with the participation of citizens in the fate of their country or with the responsibility of politicians to the voters. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! most of the necessary reforms can be implemented without a new treaty. an example is the agenda of the forthcoming european council. the enlargement of the schengen area, the introduction of transparency in council meetings, the negotiations on the enlargement of the european union and the reform of external policies. so let's not disgust the europeans with the treaty of nice, because that's all we have today. it is not so much the new treaty that requires our reflection as the political will of states and citizens to achieve common objectives. the problem is not the lack of a new treaty but the lack of a common vision for the future. we declare better legislation, and we pass a service directive so ambiguous that the court of justice shuts its hands before further trials that give it even more power. we declare a common interest in energy, and yet we pursue an extremely selfish policy on this matter every day. we declare investment in research, and the european institute of technology is seen to be wasting away, torn apart by national egoism. we declare our commitment to the principle of subsidiarity and we fund a research framework programme which will be co-financed by all european taxpayers. research that is illegal in many member states. these are real cracks which must be regretted if europe is to prosper. these are the cracks that pose more of a question mark on the state of the european project than the collapse of one or the other treaty.
mr. chairman, please! poland supports the constitutional treaty. please don't listen to polish politicians, but listen to polish public opinion. more than 60% of poles are in favour of the constitutional treaty. if so, how do i make him happy? it is time for citizens to reflect, but not for the european institutions - for them it is time to work. the european council (austria) has many achievements to its credit, and i would like to highlight three of them. first of all, strasbourg. the optimism of mozart's music helped european politicians become optimistic about the constitution. secondly, i consider it a very important step towards the demands of parliament, the issue of transparency of council meetings. thirdly, the michel barnier report is one of the most interesting european documents of recent days will open up a debate. what do you need to do right now? the two major social problems that need to be tackled now and by the next presidencies together with the commission are: first, the problem of immigrants in europe, and second, the problem of europe's social dimension. they should be the subject of a community policy, a common european policy. and finally, the question: what can be done to make the constitutional text possible? it's in the hands of the european commission. the third part of the constitutional treaty is largely a repetition of the treaties already ratified. the european commission should carry out a legal analysis and the amendments, which are the only ones and there are about 25 , should become the subject of the first part and the subject of an immediate decision. this is a major task for the european institutions and i express my confidence in the commission and the presidency of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i have a growing feeling that the debate on the future of europe has reached a dead end. it's like a blockage in a blood vessel that carries blood to the heart. if this state of constipation continues, there's a very serious and long-term risk of a heart attack. i have a feeling that the discussion of the constitutional treaty is just such a dead end. i am the person who supported the constitutional treaty and i still support it. at the same time, he regretted that the ambition of some politicians had led to it being called the european constitution, which led to a pragmatic discussion on what should be included in the new treaty in the referendum for or against the european union. i was saddened by the name and the ambition, but i also felt that such a treaty was necessary. today, we must say very clearly: this is no longer sustainable. it is not possible to vote on this document again in the same way in these countries. i am calling for this by uncorking the problem, by bringing fresh blood to the heart, to deal with serious problems, such as the real liberalisation of the european economy, which is not taking place.
mr. chairman, please! one of the themes of the upcoming summit is to try to define what the european union's ability to absorb potential new members really means. this definition would be the key to the further enlargement of the union. this will be an important debate, as the deadline should not be the key to closing the path to future membership for the union's most important neighbours. fear of expansion is a bad advisor. the aim is to define the geographical framework of the european community, but it is also important to remember that we have clearly defined criteria to be met by potential candidates for new members of the union. we must remember that the union is an attractive project, one that gives hope to millions of our neighbours: the belarusians, the ukrainians. today in belarus we support civil society because the current russian-backed dictatorship makes it impossible to pursue a different policy. but the union must attach particular importance to the definition of a clear european perspective for ukraine. the behaviour of kiev during the energy blackmail in december, its solidarity with moldova, for example in its strict control of transnistria, and its good relations with georgia show that ukraine can be an important stabilizer of the region and a guarantor of the development of democracy. he's a valuable ally to the union. i now turn to the second topic of the european summit, the creation of a fundamental rights agency. it is to be an important institution whose activities are to promote respect for human rights. i would like to express my concern, however, that it is being restricted to the member states of the union. the union's mission is to support and promote democratic ideas and governance. many of the global threats are outside the union. the creation of the fundamental rights agency should therefore send a clear message to the world that the union has an effective instrument to support all those who fight for human rights and fundamental democratic freedoms. it therefore calls for the agency not to be limited to 25 member states. the agency must also reach out to other countries, and first of all those covered by the eu's neighbourhood policy or partnership agreements, as in the case of russia.
mr. chairman, please! we complain that despite the successes and achievements of 50 years of european integration, the union is stuck, that there is no clear vision, no agreement on the future direction of action, but let us be honest: the criticism and reservations of citizens are more about the current functioning of eu policies than about the constitutional treaty, the meaning of which has not been sufficiently explained to the public, and the european constitution is the fundamental document that will enable the union to face new challenges. we all know that the union cannot develop further on the basis of the existing treaties, not because they are too narrow for 25 or more countries. these treaties have a fundamental flaw: they do not provide for the participation of civil society in eu policy-making or decision-making. mr president, i would like to ask you how many millions of signatures would it take today to get a citizens' motion before the commission hears the voice of those citizens? you do not have to take that vote into account at the moment, and it is the constitutional treaty that gives citizens the opportunity to take such an initiative, and all it takes is one million signatures, i repeat: one million out of 457 million citizens of the union to launch such an initiative. does this mean nothing to the opponents of the constitutional treaty who are so eager to shout democratic slogans? president barroso, i welcome your statement today on the constitution, but these words must be proved, actions must be taken, and the most important task at the moment is to restore the eu citizens' faith in the european project. this must be done both in the old union, where europe is strongly socialized, because citizens have had it for a long time, and also to take advantage of the pro-european attitude, or rather enthusiasm, in the societies of the new member states. in my country - poland - 80% of the citizens want more europe and 60% want the constitutional treaty. this is a good sign and i expect that at the european summit these countries will take the right decisions, point the way for europe and the place of the constitutional treaty so that we can get out of this impasse. (laughter)
the president of the council. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i heard at the beginning of this debate from mr schulz that mr leinen, together with the president of the commission, is one of the most important people in europe. i can agree to that, provided we still accept the president of the council. then it is indeed so. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this public debate, which mr corbett has requested, and the debate which has taken place in this house over the last few months - i would remind you of the very constructive report by mr voggenhuber, the discussions in the committee on constitutional affairs, the discussions which you have had here today - are actually taking place, and if he said 'we must talk it through', i can only agree with him. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the president of the commission, like myself and many of you, has made it very clear today that we must walk on two legs, that we must continue this two-pronged approach, namely, on the one hand, to present concrete results, concrete actions for our citizens and, on the other hand, to discuss the future of europe, including the future of a constitutional treaty. i think that is essential and that is a result which i will take with me and report to the president of the council in this form. mr poettering and others have spoken about the fundamental rights agency. i would like to speak briefly about this because it is very personal to me. i have the impression that there are some misunderstandings here. the european union as a community of values, as a union which defends and represents human rights abroad, must also have an institution which can and does represent these values. we believe that this human rights agency would be a good institution and should not, of course, in any way compete with the council of europe or other institutions. i would ask you to look very carefully at the proposals on the table, because that is precisely the kind of competition we want to eliminate. mr schulz also spoke about human rights, the question of guantanamo, common values, the question of the cia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council has done so, many members have done so, but the president-in-office has also made that very clear. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. mrs frassoni, like many others, - and i thank her very much for that, because this was a matter for the austrian presidency - spoke about transparency. we hope that we will be able to achieve a good package at the european council. there are, in fact, still some difficulties which we hope to overcome. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. mrs frassoni also mentioned that we are not precise enough about the visa facilitation for the balkan countries. i would like to stress once again that there is of course a very precise plan for the allocation of mandates and that the european council conclusions will also mention that these negotiations will be concluded next year. we know that this is of the utmost importance for the countries of the balkan region. mr voggenhuber, i cannot agree with you that the austrian presidency has been holding this debate with experts behind closed doors and with elites for the last few months. we've been working hard. we may not always have been successful, but we have made a great effort to go out and talk to the students, to the students, to the people on the street in all sorts of forms and in all sorts of formations. this is important. we have made efforts to do so, and i am sure that future presidencies will make this very clear. mr galeote has mentioned migration. we are trying to achieve very concrete results here too. the question of a list of safe third countries will continue to be discussed. it is also a question of a common policy on asylum. there are many issues where we must work with our partners in europe to develop a policy that is in the interests of all. minorities have been addressed. let me say that this was also a very important point which the austrian presidency tried to raise. mrs. resetarits has again been trying to get the zeus family to europe. europa was not only zeus' lover, she also had a family with him. they had three children. there have been quarrels in this house of zeus-europe, of course, but as far as we know they have lived happily together, and i think that should be a good example for us too. if i understood mr ferber correctly, he said that there were 25 nations, and he put it in the context of the world cup. if i may take this as a proposal that in future all 25 or all 27 countries should and may participate in the european football championship, then as an austrian i can only welcome this, because then we will finally be able to participate again. (applause from the centre)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i really think that this was one of the most interesting debates i have ever been involved in in the european parliament. i have seen that, beyond the different points of view expressed, there is a real desire to move our european project forward and that there is a real concern to bring people together, to unite. the institutions must be united, the member states must be united, and european citizens must be united, because we need their support. the institutions must be brought together because, let us be clear, we need all three institutions: parliament, the commission and the council. if it were up to the european parliament and the commission alone, we would already have the constitutional treaty because the commission approved it unanimously and the european parliament supported it by a very large majority. but we must also be able to count on all the member states, and at the moment we do not have all the member states with us. that is why, if we really want to solve the problem, we must find a balance between ambition and realism. we must bring all the member states together. however, as mr rasmussen and others have rightly said, and as mrs wallström has pointed out, today, when it comes to making europe move forward, it is not enough to ask our diplomats to meet in a beautiful landscape and find the solution. today, we have to do it with the citizens. looking back, i sometimes wonder whether the single market, the euro, the many advances that have been made, could have all come about if we had had a referendum at every stage. today, if we want to move europe forward, we must do so with our citizens and that is why, it is true, things are much more complex now. it is much more difficult, it will take some time, it is true, but it is a sine qua non: if we want to move europe forward, we must try to involve all europeans. and for that we must unite the european camp. that is why i made the following remark in my introduction: the traditional euroscepticism of those who have never wanted europe should not be supplemented by the euroscepticism of those who want to make our europe progress. (applause) the different major european political families may indeed express different positions, but once we agree to move our european project forward, we must be able to rally our camp to send a positive message, a message of confidence. we in this house today are not simply here to comment! we can and must analyse this, but the task of a leader, of a political representative, is to inspire confidence and hope. that is why i believe it is essential to have a programme which is able to bring our citizens together around results, around projects aimed at consolidating the great european project. we can cite several of these results, and i am pleased with the energy that the austrian presidency is putting into achieving concrete results. we must be clear: the member states, who want the ends, who want the objectives, must also give us the means. (applause) i would like to thank very often all member states now agree that more needs to be done at european level in the area of security and justice. all member states tell us that more needs to be done in the fight against illegal immigration and in the management of legal migration. all the member states say that more cooperation is needed. but then, when the commission proposes to transfer certain powers in the field of justice and police from the third pillar to the first pillar, i still do not see unanimity on the part of the member states on this project and the means necessary to carry it out. (applause) the same is true for energy. today there is a consensus on the need for a common energy policy, a common strategy. but we need the means to develop this common strategy. that is why, as mr goebbels and mrs frassoni have said, amongst others, it is important to achieve concrete results in energy efficiency, to have programmes for renewable energy, in order to be able to put the objectives of the green paper on safe and competitive sustainable energy into practice. same with research. one of the great achievements of hampton court, among others, is that more needs to be done at european level in research and development. that is why we have put forward the idea of a european institute of technology as a flagship project to mobilise our energies. i hope that if the member states agree on the objectives, they will also be able to give us the means to achieve them. (applause) i would like to thank that is why i believe, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that this european council should agree on the way forward. it is not just a matter of extending the period of reflection, but of entering a period of commitment which consists in defining concrete results for the near future in order to show our citizens the added value of europe and, at the same time, to show them, as mr leinen, mrs méndez de vigo and others have said, the cost of not having an institutional solution. we need an institutional solution and here we come to the question of enlargement, because very often in the european debate those who are in favour of enlargement are put on one side and those who are in favour of deepening on the other. i continue to believe, as mr juncker and others have said, that we need both. the enlargement is precisely one of the fundamental reasons for deepening, one of the fundamental reasons which justify institutional reform: an enlarged europe calls for institutional reform with increasing urgency. (applause) i would like to thank the answer to the present difficulties is not to divide europe into first- and second-tier countries. the answer to the present difficulties is to try to bring together all the member states of the union: those who are now part of the enlarged europe and those who will join us very soon. in this connection, i would also like to say that we expect the next european council to give a clear commitment to romania and bulgaria's accession on 1 january 2007 if they fulfil all the conditions we have set, which they have been working towards for months now. i hope the council will do so. finally, as several of you have said, including mr stubb, we must have perspective. i know that today, negative nostalgia is all the rage. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. but, honestly, what kind of europe are we talking about? are we better off than we were twenty years ago, when much of our continent was not free, when much of our continent was divided by regimes that were not for freedom and democracy? (applause) i would like to thank are we any better off than we were ten years ago when the balkans were the scene of massacres? the balkans are also part of our europe. do we not want to extend the area of freedom and democracy to the europeans of the balkans? that's why i don't share the depression and pessimism. i think that if we have a perspective, we understand the need for europe to move forward. europe certainly has difficulties and the institutional question is a considerable difficulty, but let us not sink into the negativity, the scepticism and the cynicism which are so fashionable today! let us rally around values such as, i would like to stress here, those of law. some of you have mentioned guantanamo. well, let us be clear: there is no justification in the world for a lack of respect for human rights in the fight against terrorism. in such a case, europe must stand up for its values and convictions! (applause) i would like to thank so let us be proud of europe! our latin american partners ask us: how did you do it? we are also trying to promote regional integration, how has europe succeeded? when we talk to our russian, chinese, indian and other partners, they show great respect for a europe which is an enlarged europe, a europe of power. let us be proud of europe! let us be proud of our values, and i believe that by showing this confidence and this spirit of togetherness, those of us who truly believe in european values will be in a position to solve the present difficulties and to advance our project of europe: a competitive europe, an open europe, but also a europe based on the idea of solidarity, a europe that wants to master, not suffer, globalisation. this is our great project for europe. (applause) i would like to thank
the question of the future of europe is a very important one. it is not true that a good european has to be a federalist. it is possible to be a good european and not share the enthusiasm for the constitutional treaty. should the cooling-off period be extended? i think so, although it's worth spending that time really reflecting, rather than casting spells, wishing thoughts and creating the false impression that there is no alternative to the treaty. we should use this extended period of reflection to consider what europeans really want, how to maintain a balance between small and large countries, new and old, rich and poor regions, the desired competitiveness and the dogma of the european social model. it's not an easy challenge. i am afraid that we may not be able to answer these dilemmas if we restrict our reflection to the existing text of the european treaty. it is also important to be honest with the europeans. will they accept that the price of enlargement is the political dominance of the largest countries? did all the current eu members participate in the preparation of the constitutional treaty on an equal footing? we talk a lot about europe being closer to ordinary citizens, making it more understandable to them. i hope that this wish also applies to treaty decisions.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the sustainable development strategy addressed to mr anders wijkman, mr john bowis and mr karel-heinz florenz in the g20/g20/uem/verts/verts/u14/u14/u14/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16/u16
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. justice requires reason and requires discretion. so while racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism, hatred of muslims and christians are deplorable facts in some european countries, we must be very careful about comparing and generalizing these phenomena in political struggle. otherwise, we will have the opposite effect of what we want, for we will be contributing to the escalation of conflicts rather than to their mitigation. the draft resolution on racism and homophobia contains too many contradictions and unjustified generalizations, and this can have just such an effect. it is not right to equate racism with so-called homophobia and islamophobia. you're mixing authentic discrimination on the basis of race or religion with opposition to ideology, opposition that is legitimate in democratic political discourse. our liberal colleague in the netherlands is quite modest in her assessment of tolerance in her country, recently legalized a pedophile party, and i would like to ask you, how far does tolerance go in this country? and post-communists who speak so freely here should look at their own history of tolerance rather than picking on poland. the resolution in question laments the lack of comparable data on these phenomena with the generalized data of the courts on the countries in which they occur. why should parliament show its sloppiness in the sketchy drafting of such an important document when we have been dealing with these phenomena in committees of the council of europe for years? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i urge all of you who are guided by a genuine concern for justice to refrain from false comparisons and unjustified generalizations.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this is an important day in the european parliament, because both this debate and, above all, the potential resolution that may be born from this debate, can give a special, new trend in how to fight various kinds of racism, persecution of minorities, etc., but for god's sake, this cannot be another weapon in the fight of the political left and european liberals against right-wing political parties and countries where right-wing political parties have taken power. i strongly protest against the provisions proposed in paragraph 4 of this resolution, which puts on the same level such serious - politically and morally deadly - accusations against my country as xenophobia, anti-semitism, homophobia and intolerance in poland. poland's thousand-year history proves beyond any doubt that it is the most tolerant country in europe, given its history. this country will never allow his good name to be tarnished with impunity. we protest against the falsehood and hypocrisy of the leftist circles.
mr. chairman, please! mp schulz, along with his socialist friends, joined the polish post-communists in making noise about the plight of homosexuals in poland. does he know of any instances of intolerance towards homosexuals? if not, then why the noise? i heard that a member of the league of polish families was calling for violence against gays. this report is the subject of a lawsuit by this mp against the newspaper that wrote it. this parliament will be ridiculed for protesting against a speech that was not there. we need to check the facts first. he said that the police should prevent illegal demonstrations, using force if necessary. under the post-communist regime, illegal gay parades were protected by the police. not now, no. we have a government determined to maintain law and order. yes, in poland we are against the promotion of homosexuality. we object to the promotion of immoral behavior. obviously, mr. schulz and i have a difference of opinion about what is and isn't moral. he'd do better to fight intolerance in his own country. i'm old enough to remember german intolerance of poles during world war ii. today, too, there are deplorable examples of intolerance in germany.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to support the view expressed by my colleague from the ppe-de, mr gaubert, that this house has lost the opportunity to speak with one voice and to join the resolution he has prepared, showing the mechanisms that should be introduced in the european union: the permanent monitoring of racist crimes, the introduction of a framework directive and the establishment of the fundamental rights agency as soon as possible. these should be the priorities of our debate and resolution, not the throwing of individual countries and cases, as is happening here. the european union strives to maintain the highest standards of respect for human rights. the fundamental rights agency will be set up shortly to do this. the vienna monitoring centre for racism and xenophobia already publishes an annual report on racism and xenophobia in the european union. it's worth looking at the 2005 report. section 5 on violence and racist crime contains an assessment of the situation in the 25 member states. and what can we learn from this text? in four european countries, including italy, ms agnoletto, there is a lack of publicly available official data on cases of violence and racist crimes. among the new member states, and i quote from this report, the czech republic, hungary, poland and slovakia keep official data on racist violence and crime in a broader sense than those collected in other countries. the lack of a uniform system in europe for recording such offences makes comparative analyses of the phenomenon difficult. in the united kingdom, because it keeps such statistics well, over 52,000 incidents of racist nature were recorded, in germany 6,400, in france 1565, in the czech republic 209. these disparities show the importance of a uniform monitoring system. most of the 25 countries of the european union, it continues, have transposed the anti-discrimination directive into their own national contexts. four countries, including germany, were referred to the european court of justice in july 2000 for failure to comply with the racial equality directives.
mr. chairman, please! racism is the result of people's belief in superiority, that they want to rule over others. the fight against racist violence and other discrimination based on social origin, age, illness or religion must not be accompanied by racist methods, especially here in the european parliament. that is why i strongly protest against the slander of poland, poles and catholic radio maria, which has intensified especially since the right-wing option, fiercely opposed by the liberal-socialist international, took power, which, with the world press in its hands, denigrates poles, accusing them of xenophobia, anti-semitism and homophobia, just because the majority of my countrymen are people who believe in god and observe traditional values. a perversely repeated lie spread by the media hostile to catholics is the alleged criticism by the apostolic see of radio maryja, the only independent media in poland with a worldwide reach - which i wish for everyone - that respects the truths of faith, defends life, true freedom, promotes the truth, the dignity of the human person and human rights. poland was and is one of the most tolerant countries, where for centuries the persecuted in other countries have found hospitality. therefore, the adoption of a resolution that there is anti-semitism, xenophobia, racism or homophobia in poland is a scandal and would testify to racism and xenophobia in the european parliament. as catholics in poland, we feel insulted by the investitures and discriminated against, which should not happen here in the european parliament, which prides itself on respecting the ideas of tolerance, democracy, respect for diversity and freedom of religion. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! the history of europe places a particular responsibility on politicians, churches and civil society to promote tolerance and human rights. this responsibility lies in particular with the governments of the european union countries, which should be the guardians of the rights enshrined in the european treaty. unfortunately, some, i repeat some, actions of the current government in warsaw, primarily related to the league of polish families, spread intolerance and homophobia. deputy prime minister and minister of education roman giertych has dismissed the director of the central centre for the development of teachers, due to the publication by the centre of the council of europe's official guide "compass: human rights education in working with youth". deputy prime minister giertych has denounced the book, and i quote, for its press release, for encouraging schools to meet with homosexual organizations. roman giertych considers the need to liquidate this institution, which has existed since 1991 and is one of the important institutions in poland in the development and implementation of educational programs based on humanistic values. but these actions of the government are, fortunately, creating a different poland. a petition calling for the education minister's dismissal has been signed online by nearly 140,000 people. teachers are protesting, students are protesting, a new civil society is rising.
mr. chairman, please! let's take this opportunity to note the rise of racism, xenophobia, homophobia, or any other kind of violence, and not close the discussion as soon as it opens, saying that it shouldn't be, but instead think about what is causing the rise. that's the kind of thinking that's missing from this assembly. and there are more groups of people who experience violence than those listed here. i think that violence is also experienced by the whole mass of europeans in the european union, who are forced to accept the enlargement of the union with turkey, or by that part of society that thinks more traditionally in christian terms and that has nothing against homosexuals, but is shocked by gay parades. why the parade? that's violence, too.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. i commend the rapporteur for her work. mr. costa, i want to congratulate you. we are discussing today an important matter from the point of view of public safety, namely the strengthening of safeguards in the field of civil aviation. this is another step towards reducing the risks, especially terrorist risks, associated with the use of civil aircraft for the transport of passengers and goods. it must be admitted that the current 2002 regulation contains too many detailed and formal provisions, which make it difficult to respond flexibly to operational needs. it is therefore necessary to strike the right balance between the need for effective and therefore rapid action on the one hand and an appropriate level of protection and control on the other. of course, proper estimates of the costs of such necessary measures are also necessary. it is a pity that the draft regulation does not cover this issue. i would be happy to know, commissioner, at least the indicative amount of the necessary expenditure. it is good that member states are obliged to develop appropriate civil aviation security plans. in addition, air carriers and operators are required to have technical programmes and conditions in place to ensure an adequate level of protection. this also requires adequate training of staff. attention should also be paid to the need to respect protection standards and not to lower them in the pursuit of savings. another very important issue is the conclusion of relevant agreements or arrangements with non-eu countries. it is therefore good that the regulation contains a provision in article 17 that addresses this problem. i am pleased to note that the annex to the regulation is clear and that it is structured so that detailed implementing provisions can be introduced if necessary. i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the need to use measures and methods which are not unnecessarily burdensome or even humiliating for passengers. this applies to passengers with disabilities or parents with small children. there are also curious situations, such as when a passenger is taken a tiny nail file, and then, when she is on board, if she flies business class, she is given a metal knife and fork. finally, i am convinced that the draft regulation submitted by the commission will be improved by the adoption of a number of fully rational amendments, which i support on behalf of the uen group. you may be familiar with the expression that a mother is said to have said to her pilot son: "my dear, just fly slow and low". i'll say it another way: "let's fly fast, if necessary high enough, and above all, always safely".
mr. chairman, please! there's a saying that safety measures are never too much. it's actually a commonly used truism. but is that really the case? is it true that the more safety measures that are put in place, the less risk of exposure? i am of course asking these questions in the context of a very hotly debated issue today, namely the possibility of the special civil aviation services carrying weapons. i have no doubt that this particular case should be the subject of a categorical and unequivocal ban. and not just because the use of these weapons, of course, solely for the protection of the passengers and crew, is inherently dangerous in this delicate space of the aircraft, but also for another reason: the weapons can provoke passengers who may not have had any aggressive intentions when they boarded this aircraft. especially if they are mentally unstable, and such passengers are also on board the plane. that doesn't seem happy to me either, nor does the wording of the 10th chapter, paragraph 4 of the annex, nor the 79th amendment, which governs this matter. i repeat, i am in favor of a total ban on carrying weapons on board. but what about emergencies, someone may ask, when there is a suspicion of danger? well, to that i say: such a flight should not take place at all, it must be cancelled. i certainly wouldn't want to fly on a plane like that.
mr. chairman, please! it is with great pleasure that i once again congratulate commissioner barrot on presenting us with a very good proposal. commissioner, this is indeed a contribution to building a safe european airspace. i would like to congratulate the chairman of the committee on transport and tourism, mr paolo costa, on his report. under your leadership, we have reached a broad consensus, despite a few individual reservations. protection of citizens gives them a sense of security, protection of aviation stabilises the aviation market. these are the aspects that i want to emphasize as particularly important, especially from the perspective of those countries where this market is born. in my country, the annual growth in air traffic is about 30%. i do not, however, share the reservations about the allegedly excessive new competences of the commission and the aviation safety agency, they are needed. we have experience five years after 9/11. in the draft regulation we have the tasks of governments and states, we have the responsibilities of airports and air operators, we have the responsibilities of air safety officers and staff, and we have the requirements for the proper behaviour of passengers. i'm also looking into the funding sources for this program. i would be very careful about minimizing costs as an end in itself. finally, we have the air traffic safety monitoring commitment. we also have no objections to this proposal from the libe commission, and therefore i think that our concerns about human/civil rights freedom, restriction are not fully justified here. the fact is that this regulation will have a positive impact - perhaps a little too much - on the competitive dominance of aviation over other transport sectors.
mr. chairman, please! the report on coastal fisheries and the problems facing fishermen is a good way of presenting the current situation. in poland, large numbers of old boats were scrapped as part of the reforms, and the low profitability of the fisheries and the lack of money did not allow them to be restored. a large number of family-owned fisheries and fish processing enterprises have been closed down. currently, there are difficulties in buying fresh fish on the coast itself, which used to be an attraction for holidaymakers and tourists. there has been a significant outflow of people, especially young people, from the profession. the measures proposed in the report, such as access to cheap fuels, financial and investment aid for fishermen and family businesses, and vocational training and education for young fishermen and those seeking a career, can effectively counteract the marginalisation of this fishery. the application of these measures would allow the maintenance of existing jobs and the creation of new ones in a region where unemployment is currently high. this aid is of great social and economic importance and guarantees consumers a local specialty based on fresh fish. the launch of the european fisheries fund is particularly important. the adoption of the report and the implementation of its conclusions will be very much appreciated by fishermen. i would like to thank mr o'neil for his report. i support the rapporteur's conclusions.
mr. chairman, please! the report by mr ó neachtaine is an interesting result of the rapporteur's search for the heart of a truly complex problem, which is not easily assessed in the context of coastal fisheries. the concept is still widely perceived as balancing between industrial, artisanal and recreational fishing and, like any other difficult-to-define, vaguely qualified sector, is doomed to be marginalised, to remain outside the mainstream of eu financial and investment programmes. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the lack of funds to modernise fishing gear results in a proliferation of defecting boats and, worse, drowning; the daily living conditions deteriorate and the catch statistics fall. this popular, long-standing tradition of fishing just seems to lose its clear perspective. the call for action to safeguard the basic foundations of coastal fishing is therefore fully justified, and for the member states to adopt common protection mechanisms to ensure its maintenance, mechanisms which are all the more effective the more they take account of the specific characteristics of this fishery, the natural conditions, technical needs and economic conditions of the coastal zone concerned.
i am sorry, but that is not a point of order. we take note of what you say, but it is not a point of order.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr herbert bösch on behalf of the committee on budgetary control on the protection of the communities' financial interests and the fight against fraud annual report 2004 [2005/2184 (ini) ] (a6-0185/2006).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the protection of the community's financial interests and the fight against fraud require an effective control system, which the european union does not have. i have the highest regard for the european court of auditors, but its reports give a rather superficial picture and, in fact, we know very little about the actual spending of eu money. the fact that budgetary control is based on the das system, i.e. the issuing of positive certificates of financial accounts, does not allow misuse to be detected. thus, the press is more likely to detect abuses than the competent authorities. worse still, the european model is recommended to the member states and, for example, in poland, i observe that the more the reports on the implementation of the budget prepared by the supreme audit office resemble the reports of the european court of auditors, the less real knowledge there is of the irregularities and abuses taking place. we should think deeply about the budgetary control system in the european union, and its reform should be geared towards deepening controls. not only the examination of the reliability of the books, but also the examination of specific irregularities, abuses, the analysis of their causes and the recommendation of proposals for their removal, as well as the identification and flagging of corruption-inducing mechanisms, should become the essence of the control system in the european union. we should also create the conditions for the use in the european parliament of the reports of the national audit bodies, which contain a great deal of knowledge about the spending of eu money, and of which we have not yet had any use. this case should be solved systemically. mr president, we are talking about abuse, and i would like to make a slight verbal abuse, namely, one sentence on another: here in this house my country, poland, is accused of racism and xenophobia. i want to express my strong opposition to this accusation and say that in poland for many years no one's hair has fallen off because of racist accusations. i wanted to say that because i didn't get a chance to speak at the debate yesterday.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to take this debate to the next level and draw your attention to what i believe are the most important issues. firstly, the increasing activity of the member states in detecting irregularities and fraud involving european union funds. unfortunately, however, there are countries, and these are among the 'old member countries', which report data on abuses to the commission with a long delay. secondly, a clear decrease of more than 50% in the injury found in agricultural expenditure, from around 170 million in 2003 to 82 million in 2004. this is particularly important given that the european union's agricultural aid is directed at several million beneficiaries. so the potential for irregularities and abuses is very high. thirdly, the worrying increase in the amount of damage in the area of structural funds, from eur 482 million in 2003 to almost eur 695 million in 2004, mainly in the 'old member states'. fourthly, and lastly, the enormous losses from own resources due to the growing phenomena of smuggling, mainly of tobacco products, counterfeit goods and vat fraud. the latter account, according to experts, for about 10% of total tax revenues in the individual countries. the damage caused by the increase in smuggling requires additional measures to seal customs borders, especially at the eastern borders of the european union.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my appreciation for the debate that has taken place, because it touches on matters that are of paramount importance. it is undoubtedly true that the credibility of the european union also depends very much on the credibility and efficiency with which european funds are used. it is clear that the report is a step towards a better and more efficient use of funds and a reduction in the risk of misuse of funds and, possibly, of financial fraud. let me touch on just a few of the points that were made in the debate. the debate raised some concerns about the weakening of the independence of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). i must say that the commission's proposals, which are also submitted to parliament, do the opposite. this is not the case and it will certainly be shown in the in-depth discussion that the commission's proposals do not lead to a weakening of the independence of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the very important issue of procedural rights and formalities was also highlighted. here again, i can say that the commission's proposal is in line with the views expressed in the debate, that it is necessary to strengthen certain elements relating, for example, to the provision of information relating to investigations, independence and confidentiality of activities, so that the rights of the parties are safeguarded in a way that is consistent with the legal principle of the european union. ladies and gentlemen, let me just briefly touch on the problem of eurostat. this case is still open, and until all the proceedings are concluded, it will not be possible to quantify the consequences as clearly as it is obvious and as it will be done at the moment the situation matures. ladies and gentlemen, let me therefore state the common interest of the commission and parliament in moving forward on a path which ensures the efficient and completely fair use of european funds.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. today. (the sitting was suspended at 11 a.m. and resumed at 11.05 a.m.)
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank all my colleagues in the european parliament for a great and fruitful cooperation. we had 1,700 amendments, so the interest in the seventh framework programme was huge. i would like to thank in particular my colleagues from the itre committee, who have done the most work. the cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs has been excellent and i would like to thank my colleagues for their cooperation. commission officials and political group advisers also put in a lot of work. with the seventh framework programme, we want to take advantage of the opportunities of all 25 countries of the european union. we want to use the best people and infrastructure. the european parliament acted swiftly, efficiently and responsibly. we can't slow down. we need to put the programme into effect on 1 january 2007. that's what i'm calling for. (laughter)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: east timor formally gained independence in 1975, but immediately began to be occupied by the leftist dictatorial islamic regime of indonesia. this small catholic country of 300,000 people has been under a brutal occupation by its enemies for 25 years. after independence, it was constantly the subject of various international games, also because of its natural riches. east timor must be supported by international organizations, the un mission must be maintained, not at 130 soldiers, but at a number that makes it possible to maintain peace and social tranquility in east timor for this tormented, really tormented, catholic population. but ladies and gentlemen, one can only wonder whether the authority of these international organizations is sufficient, when one considers that the united nations commission on human rights has included the criminal regimes of gaddafi, the criminal regimes of other countries, the criminal regimes of castro. these are the members of the human rights commission. if we also consider that our parliament, which should be an example, is debating again, today, same-sex marriage, and one of the countries of the european union has decided to grant citizenship to ape-man, then we can ask ourselves whether we have enough authority to help those people who are the most persecuted and suffering. and who actually have bigger concerns than those that often appear in this room.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european parliament has repeatedly raised the issue of violations of human rights and fundamental political freedoms in syria. the syrian authorities are known to detain civil society activists, political lawyers and human rights defenders, as well as participants in human rights conferences abroad upon their return to the country. these arrests violate article 38 of the syrian constitution, which guarantees every citizen "the right to freely and openly express their opinions in speech, in writing and by all other means of expression". the syrian state of emergency, in force since 8 march 1963, also does not justify the arrest and detention of individuals without trial on the basis of their freedom of expression. in may, the syrian security service of amn al-dawla detained 12 signatories of a petition calling on the syrian authorities to improve relations between syria and lebanon on the basis of respect for the sovereignty of each country. in the first half of may, the petition gathered around 300 signatures from intellectuals, civil society activists in syria and lebanon. on 14 may, michel kilo, a well-known journalist and widely respected member of the national opposition, was arrested. on 16 may, two other human rights activists, nidal darwisha and mahmud mera, were arrested, and the following day, prominent human rights defender anwar al-bunni was detained. ten days before his arrest, the syrian bar association suspended anwar al-bunni from its membership. anwar al-bunni was to become the director of the eu-funded human rights centre, which was to be established in damascus. most of those detained between 14 and 17 may were held in the central prison in adra, near damascus. the european parliament calls on the syrian government and parliament to release these people immediately and to ensure that the political system in syria respects fundamental political and civil rights.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i was in lebanon recently and i saw the hope that was being born there to build a democracy, a democratic country and to take over the entire territory through state sovereignty. that's why syria is also the key to peace in the middle east. syria refuses to recognize lebanon and establish diplomatic relations with it. this country is holding people who signed a petition in beirut demanding the normalization of relations between syria and lebanon. journalists, lawyers, workers, officials and opposition figures are arrested on trivial charges. we must insist that the syrian authorities release these unlawfully detained people. the conditions in which prisoners are held must change. syria should also release the prisoners who have been held for years and are considered missing in lebanon, whose mothers have called for intervention and their release. urge syria to ratify the convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
mr. chairman, please! every man desires and deserves a life of dignity and freedom. promoting human rights and democratic principles is a global task, and so is the european parliament. as history has shown, often the newest, best guarantor of human rights is a properly functioning democratic state. a country where the rights of its citizens are respected and every citizen is treated equally, regardless of gender, religion or caste. we cannot accept that in the 21st century, a woman's life is sacrificed on the altar of family honor. we cannot accept that a state of emergency is introduced in the civilized world to justify abuses, which is intended to be a pretext for the unjustified arrest, torture or murder of civilians, journalists, lawyers or human rights activists. for these reasons, i am in favour of the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! my predecessors have spoken here about the dramatic cases of detention of syrian oppositionists in recent months, and yet the violation of fundamental rights in syria has been going on for over 40 years. it is unacceptable that in a country that is a close neighbour of the european union, absolute power is held by one clan of the family linked to their relatives and friends, a state of emergency has been in place for over 40 years, the parliament is an institution entirely subordinate to one party the ba'ath party, devoid of legislative power. citizens have no voting rights, no right to free assembly, no political rights, and therefore no legal opposition. criticism of the authorities is impossible, and the omnipresent secret services, corrupt courts with unlimited powers of arrest and torture complete the dramatic picture. however, one of the most pressing problems in syria is the discrimination against the kurdish minority. at the moment, the 1.5 million kurdish minority is deprived of the most basic civil rights. there is a total ban on the use of the kurdish language, as well as the manifestation of kurdish culture. kurds do not have syrian citizenship, and therefore no passports, no access to education, healthcare, or land ownership. we cannot afford to sit idle.
member of the commission. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak today on the serious human rights situation in syria. the commission is closely monitoring the situation and is concerned about the latest developments. we had some reasons for optimism earlier this year. the government has released hundreds of political prisoners. it also committed to limit the use of emergency laws by limiting their use to activities that threaten the security of the state. he also prepares the establishment of a national human rights council. we welcomed these positive steps back then. today, however, we can only regret the failures. the authorities are imposing further restrictions on fundamental freedoms. the flowering wave of arrests of intellectuals and human rights defenders who signed the damascus and beirut declarations is the most striking example of this disturbing trend. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, we know some of these civil society actors personally, as do you. they have peaceful intentions. we cannot accept the harassment and intimidation of human rights defenders and critics of government policies, arbitrary arrests and the use of solitary confinement. syria is not respecting its obligations under the un conventions on civil and political rights. the eu therefore responded decisively on 19 may with a public statement calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the commission is concerned in particular because one of the detainees is leading a project under the european initiative for democracy and human rights. of course, making a public statement is not enough. we need to monitor individual cases and increase our interest in syrian partners. in the absence of a valid euro-mediterranean association agreement in syria, we lack the political foundation for openly addressing these issues with the government, as is the case in other countries. however, we are making full use of diplomatic channels with the member countries' embassies in damascus and will continue to do so. i am convinced that the european parliament will be our unwavering ally in supporting this effort.
the author. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. north korea is increasingly reporting alarming cases of human rights violations. intimidation, torture, and public executions have become a grim part of the country's daily life, not to mention restrictions on freedom of speech and religion. many witnesses testify that there may be as many as 200,000 people in korean labor camps. prisoners who are tortured live in conditions that are unimaginable. any opposition or resistance to the ruling workers' party of korea is strongly suppressed, and the punishment is not only for the opposition but for their entire families. the death penalty, which is still used in north korea, is primarily for political reasons. local media is censored, and access to international media is severely restricted. the situation in north korea is very difficult, not only politically but also economically. local people are fleeing to china in droves, not only because of political repression but also because of the growing hunger problem, as the authorities distribute food in the face of widespread shortages, favoring high-ranking party and military officials over ordinary citizens. the north korean government has consistently denied entry to united nations human rights observers and other ngos, and has completely ignored the recommendations of the un commission on human rights. in the absence of any will or cooperation from the north korean government, we as the international community cannot stand by and watch as individual life and human dignity are disrespected there. we must respond to the current situation in the country to force the north korean government to respect basic human rights, or at least first to open its borders to independent international organizations willing to provide humanitarian aid to the local population. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! it is no coincidence that the resolution on communist north korea has been tabled by almost all the political groups in our parliament. it means we speak with one voice on this matter. that's good, because that's how we strengthen our position. we are talking today about a kind of political jurassic park, a regime that has cooled down in the form of 50 or 30 years ago. it's the only situation in the world, because even in fidel castro's cuba, there's opposition and castro can't put everybody in jail. we need to speak out about this political archeology, we need to support the troika's diplomatic efforts. we should be giving the red light to the forced repatriation of north korean defectors, as we've been talking about, who have been hiding, oddly enough, in china. it is good that we, the members of the european parliament, are not divided on the communist korea issue, and let us hope that the european commission and the council will share this view.
mr. chancellor, mr. president, i have to go to the police. i would like to congratulate both the council summit and the austrian presidency on their work. keeping their heads in the clouds, the constitutional clouds, sometimes makes many european politicians not want to appreciate the list of things that the european union manages to do. the budget, the services directive, the development of cooperation in internal affairs, better consular cooperation, the enlargement of schengen and the reform of the union's external policies, which is closest to my heart, and which is, after all, close to completion thanks also to your team in brussels, mr chancellor, are all very, very many things. i don't always agree with these decisions, but i'm glad they're made. this experience of an effective union should deter us from criticising the treaty of nice too radically, because it is the only thing we have in the treaty system. europe without a constitutional treaty is working, and it is working well, as the outgoing presidency has shown. this experience should be the most important prerequisite for a completely new reform of the treaty system, which should not float in the clouds of the constitution but stand on the firm foundations of european experience and european practices. a practice that has been offered to us by the outgoing presidency. thank you so much for that.
mr. chairman, please! we are now concluding the six months of the austrian presidency. the commission has achieved this: it boasts of a compromise on the services directive. instead of guaranteeing the free movement of services in the union, the rules have become rigid and vague. europe's chances of increasing its external competitiveness have been squandered. the next issue is to get the new financial perspective 2007-13 adopted, which means, among other things, increasing cuts in the eu budget for key objectives such as territorial cohesion and equalizing development opportunities for the poorest regions. and finally, this wretched, long-dead draft of a constitutional treaty. the austrian chancellor said at the summit and today he confirmed that the main content of the treaty must be preserved. the will of citizens of at least two eu member states was ignored in this statement. the european union is also committed to the development of a european defence industry, which will be able to compete with the european union's defence industry.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank the austrian presidency today for its presidency of the european union in recent months. i would like to draw attention to three things: firstly, the austrian presidency has contributed to maintaining a high level of transatlantic relations and to deepening relations between the european union and the united states. it felt like one of the priorities of this presidency. i would like to thank the austrian presidency in particular for its contribution to the success of the dialogue between the european parliament and the congress of the united states of america and for its contribution to the excellent organisation of the meeting of the european union and united states delegations in vienna this spring. the second point i would like to make is that the austrian presidency has made it a priority to monitor racist, xenophobic, homophobic and nationalist behaviour within the european union. it was indeed one of the priorities of this presidency and, for austria, the fight against this phenomenon is undoubtedly one of the most important areas of the european union. the third thing i wanted to highlight is the dimension of enlargement that this presidency has been pursuing. i want to thank you for the impartiality of this presidency. indeed, this presidency was exercised in a non-ideological, non-partisan way, linked to the majority line of the european union. it represented, in a sense, the voice of the majority in the european parliament. i am thinking in particular of the contribution that the austrian presidency will make to calming the mood on enlargement, to moderating the issue, to ensuring that enlargement of the european union remains an open question. (the president read out the minutes)
mr. chairman, please! the adoption of a resolution in the previous plenary session, which accuses above all poles and radio maryja of alleged homophobia, anti-semitism, xenophobia and racism without any basis, is a scandal against which i receive thousands of protests, including the question of who of the 301 deputies who sanctioned this machiavellian lie ever listened to radio maryja? the resolution is already being quoted to incite violence against my people and heard on radio stations other than catholics. i therefore ask whether this is the eu's tolerance, where a minority is imposing its views on millions of citizens, trying to introduce not only a superstate with one government, army and money, but the only legitimate ideology, which we, especially poles, are familiar with from previous totalitarian systems? i would also like to appeal to the young finnish member of parliament to respect the truth and women, which is the minimum required even by a not very sophisticated culture.
mr. chairman, please! a few days ago, on 29 june, it was the 120th birthday of robert schuman, one of the founders of the united europe. it is a pity that this anniversary has gone so unnoticed; it is a pity because i do not know how that noble statesman would feel if he were here today and saw the european parliament break down another barrier protecting the human race from destructive biomedical experiments. you have to call things by their right names. the funding under fp7 of research on human embryos and embryonic stem cells, which is needed, creates a dangerous testing ground for homo sapiens. a human embryo is not an object, it's the beginning of a human being like you, like me, like any of us. for example, what about respect for the charter of fundamental rights, which states in its first article: 'the dignity of the human person is inviolable and must be respected and protected'? how does this relate to respect for the law, which is in force in many countries of the union, including poland? how does this relate to respecting the religious beliefs of many europeans? that's why i'm calling for a rethink and a halt to this decision.
mr. chairman, please! a year and a half ago i was one of the signatories of an appeal signed by some 50 members of the european parliament, calling for the european parliament to support the opening of membership negotiations with turkey, and i also voted in favour of this opening to ankara in our parliament. so i regret all the more that today's world press reports another assassination in turkey of a catholic priest. this priest is wounded, but he survived. unfortunately, this is not the first attack on a non-muslim cleric in this country. the last one ended tragically - the priest was killed. i am personally, and i am not the only one, concerned about turkey's lack of respect for religious freedom. it's a long way to the union for this country. even for those who, like me, are in favour of the extension of the european structures to include this country.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to a problem that happened a few weeks ago, and it's a repeat of a problem that happened last year as well. it's about the air raids on polish construction companies in germany; destroying them. many companies are afraid to talk about it, some of them talk about the scenes that take place during the inspections by the financial officials or customs officials, they remind me of the images of the second world war. i'll give you just one example. westbud, which has been operating in the german market for 16 years, has been audited by 250 auditors in recent weeks. the german newspaper braunschweiger zeitung on its front page shows a picture of a polish worker standing against a wall with his hands on the wall and being checked by customs and financial officials. this company has been operating for 16 years, and in addition to having its computers seized, 1.2 million euros of money was also seized. how are these companies supposed to operate in the european union?
mr. chairman, please! the passenger car factory in warsaw owned by the korean daewoo until 2000 avoided bankruptcy thanks to the determination of the management and the crew, paid 92% of its debts and reduced its workforce by 2/3. the factory applied to the polish government for a loan guarantee in accordance with the restructuring plan, which requires a recommendation from the european commissioner for competition. the factory has good long-term contracts, which means there shouldn't be any problems with the warranty. however, after a meeting with the polish minister of economy in brussels, the media are reporting that the commissioner for competition is considering whether to reject the recommendation to guarantee the loans. it will mean acting against the factory, trying to bankrupt it, and more importantly it will mean acting against fair competition in the european union. if the brussels officials refuse to recommend it, it will mean that they are not acting for the common good, but for selected capital groups and car companies. we can't agree to that.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to extend my sincere congratulations to ms. diana wallis, who is a very experienced lawyer and a very good reporter. we have heard a number of reports prepared by mrs diana wallis, who has been remarkably precise in her legal language and has given a very good and clear account of the facts. mrs diana wallis is also a member of the committee on petitions, and i have the honour and pleasure of working with her there, and i always regard her work with great appreciation. that is also the case with this report we are discussing today. the equitable life case originally went to the petition committee. the committee on petitions is very pleased that this matter has been brought before the plenary of our parliament. insurance cases are extremely sensitive cases - we remember the lloyds case we recently dealt with - cases that put a lot of people at risk, in this case many thousands of people who had put their lives in the hands of the equitable life insurance company, and then suddenly, in their old age, they find themselves without resources and they are in a lot of trouble. we have to look at this incredibly carefully, but there's a second issue involved, the issue of the effectiveness of our actions. mrs diana wallis said very well that it is not just a matter of applying the directive, i.e. adopting the directive, but it is a matter of applying the directive and the cooperation of all those who are concerned by the directive. and herein lies the problem we often encounter: that the effectiveness of decisions by parliament and not only parliament but also other european institutions is sometimes not what it should be. because we should want to ensure that when parliament adopts a position, it is enforced to the end in this case (i am thinking of insurance cases, and in particular the equitable life case), so that it does not end up in a decision of parliament, in a resolution of parliament. it has to end up repairing the damage that so many people have suffered, and the efficiency of our work here is incredibly important. mrs diana wallis in her report has proposed that our house should turn and adopt certain positions which will facilitate the further work of this committee. i would urge that all the points that mrs diana wallis has made in her report on behalf of the committee of inquiry be supported by this house. i congratulate ms. diana wallis and i hope this case ends well for the people who were hurt in the equitable life accident.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the member states of the european union have committed themselves to transpose the recommendation of the seventh fatf task force on remittances at european level in order to effectively counter terrorist financing. therefore, in order to ensure the flow of information on the payer at every stage of the payment execution process, a system should be introduced requiring payment service providers to include accurate and specific information on the payer on money transfers. terrorism must be combated and measures taken to prevent its financing. however, it is also important that authorities responsible for combating money laundering or terrorist financing act in accordance with national criminal law and fundamental rights. the five-year retention period proposed by the commission is to be welcomed. however, as regards the applicability of the regulation, it is necessary to allow for certain exceptions, as proposed by the rapporteur, and to introduce a number of clarifications and additions to the definitions used. it is necessary to limit the use of the information transmitted and stored to specific scopes of application in order to prevent the general authorisation of the storage of information on citizens and to minimise interference with fundamental rights under this regulation. implementing powers, amendment powers and comitology procedures should also be excluded. the amendment of the legal provisions which applied in the codecision procedure should also take place in the codecision procedure. member states should ensure that a list of organisations to which this regulation applies is established in their country and that it is kept up to date and made available to the member state concerned. in addition, a revision clause concerning money transfers and mobile payments should be introduced three years after the entry into force of this regulation and a so-called automatic expiry clause should be introduced five years after the entry into force of this regulation. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report on a very difficult and important subject for the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the proposed regulation is the next in a series of harmonising, that is restricting, fundamental rights. the previous ones were about population records, the introduction of chips, etc. this is an action to limit financial freedom. it is a continuation of the beginnings of the action taken by olaf (then called uklaf) in 1978 against large-scale tax fraud to the detriment of the community's finances as a practice attributable to organised crime. how does the proposed regulation prevent money laundering and terrorist financing? by controlling billions of our citizens' operations and storing them for five years? no, you won't! it is good that both the rapporteur and the opinion-makers - the economic and monetary committee, the european economic and social committee, the european central bank - point out the enormous shortcomings of the proposed regulation. in conclusion, let's read it again and not create regulations for financial and intelligence services. i hope that in the future we will not all be their collaborators or victims, as is happening now in poland.
member of the commission. mr president, for the record i wish to confirm that the commission accepts all amendments that reflect the agreement allowing the adoption of this proposal in a single reading. i have arranged for a list of the commission’s position on all amendments to be handed to the secretariat for inclusion in the recordcommission’s position on amendments by parliament: see annex.. some members raised subjects this evening that are reflected in amendments that the commission is not in a position to accept and these relate to the following. a threshold of 1000 euros or dollars for incoming transfers would deprive authorities in charge of fighting money laundering and terrorist financing of an effective means to do their job. below the threshold, information on the payers would not have to be collected or recorded. the risk is that these funds could be used for financing new terrorist attacks. terrorist acts can be organised with little money. it has been estimated that the cost of the madrid attacks only amounted to about eur 8000 and any threshold for incoming transfers can easily be abused by dividing the amount to be transferred into several payments below the threshold. the general sunset clause that would limit the applicability of this regulation in time: this was not accepted by the council either. such a clause could be useful in certain cases in the context of better regulation, but the commission does not see added value in including this general clause in this regulation. inserting this clause would mean that users and providers of payment services would be deprived of the necessary legal certainty. a comprehensive review clause is no doubt better suited for this regulation. if it turns out in the light of the review that changes are needed, the commission will set them in motion and i therefore appeal to the house to accept this sensible solution. the comitology procedure under the provisions of this regulation covers a special procedure of authorisation by the commission for member states to conclude bilateral agreements with territories or countries outside the community. member states authorised to include such agreements will benefit from derogations from the obligations under the regulation. such waivers will allow member states to treat transfers of funds between that country or territory and the member state concerned as transfers of funds within the member state. amendment 103 limits in time, until 1 april 2008, the possibility for the commission to grant such authorisations. imposing such a sunset clause is clearly not in line with the recent agreement on the revised comitology procedure. as part of this deal both the council and parliament agreed not to limit in time the powers granted to the commission. for the same reasons, amendments 20, 22 and 24 are not acceptable either. some of you have raised the swift crisis widely reported in the media during the last few weeks. you are aware that the issue is on parliament’s agenda later this week and my colleague mr frattini will make a declaration on behalf of the commission. we will make sure that we have all the facts of this case before taking any decision on further action. as far as this regulation is concerned, the commission considers that it contains the appropriate standards on data protection and access by the competent authorities to such data. your rapporteur had the foresight to submit the proposal to the european data protection supervisor, who gave a positive assessment. no problems were detected on data protection issues. let me stress once more that non-compliance by 1 january 2007 with the agreed international standards to ensure an effective fight against the financing of terrorism will not only send a negative message to the financial community on europe’s commitment to fight terrorism. non-compliance would also have significant economic consequences due to disruption of money flows from and to the european union. the commission has been ready to take the concerns on board. the compromise found is a good one. it will make europe a safer place and show that europe lives up to its responsibilities in the world. i count on your support in bringing this dossier to a successful conclusion now at first reading, thus avoiding lengthy discussions and probably less satisfactory results at second reading.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this own-initiative report on recent developments and prospects in the field of company law is intended to respond to the above actions of the commission and to develop parliament's strategic plans for further action in the field of company law. significant progress has been made in implementing the 2003 action plan. however, further action is needed to: achieve the objectives set out in the revised lisbon strategy; commit to growth and jobs; strengthen and increase industrial competitiveness; improve the business environment; and commit to supporting the social europe project. calls on the commission to ensure that the steps taken to modernise the area of company law and corporate governance are and will be consistent with the rules in related sectors, and stresses the importance of taking into account the case law of the court of justice of the european communities on the principle of freedom of establishment; parliament called on the commission to take account of the european social model, in particular the involvement of workers, when deciding on further measures to develop company law. better regulation and simplification are very important to increase the coherence and clarity of community legislation, especially in the area of company law, but should not be the only objective. the first step is to identify the areas where further initiatives at european union level are necessary to achieve the objectives. it is necessary to examine whether there is a need for a comprehensive consolidation of company law in a single legal act or whether, in the first stage, consolidation should cover only certain areas of company law. the commission's withdrawal of projects in areas where it should already have seen interest from the companies involved cannot be justified by the need for better regulation. the european parliament should be continuously involved in the process of developing, defining and adopting simplification measures. the european corporate governance framework should create the right institutional conditions to support the long-term profitability and employment prospects of companies, provide mechanisms to prevent mismanagement and guarantee transparency, accountability for investment and revenue. it should also be borne in mind that employees are a kind of human capital of the enterprise, and that employees are not only parties to the employment contract, but are also investors and citizens of the european union. employees should be seen, like shareholders, as persons involved in the company in the sense that they bear the risks associated with decisions concerning the company. the european parliament also calls on the commission to take greater account of the needs of smes in future legislative proposals or in future revisions of existing legislation, recalling that they are job creators and drivers of economic growth. in the field of company law, parliament welcomes the commission's proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the exercise of voting rights by shareholders of companies incorporated in a member state and whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market. the european parliament also welcomes the agreement reached on the proposals for a parliament and council directive amending the directive on the formation of public limited liability companies and on the maintenance and alteration of the capital of such companies, and the proposal for a parliament and council directive amending the directive on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of certain types of companies. parliament should be continuously involved in the debate on further priorities in company law and corporate governance, which means, inter alia, that parliament will be regularly informed of discussions in expert groups. the european parliament's main expectations from the commission in the field of company law are: first, that the commission gives companies guarantees to choose between different management systems, including the monopolistic and dualistic system, without the need to adopt rules defining the powers and obligations of the company's management bodies; second, that it analyses the possibilities of changing the rules in the statute of the european company on the creation of such companies in order to simplify them and adapt them to market requirements; and third, that it submits a proposal for a private european company to meet the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. the european parliament strongly condemns the fact that the commission has already decided to withdraw two proposals: the proposal for a regulation on the statute for a european company association and the proposal for a regulation on the statute for a european mutual company, as well as two proposals for directives supplementing these statutes with regard to employee participation. however, we note that in the commission's 2003 action plan, the commission announced its intention to actively support the legislative process undertaken in connection with these statutes. we call on the commission to present new drafts on the statutes of european mutual societies and on the statutes of european associations. the european parliament also calls on the commission to present in the near future a proposal for a 14th directive on the transfer abroad of the registered office of a limited liability company. the european parliament expects the commission to table a legislative proposal on the 'one share, one vote' principle only after the results of the revision of the parliament and council directive on takeover bids. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr klaus lehne, whose valuable comments have added to the value of this report.
mr. chairman, please! i welcomed the continuation of work on modernising company law and strengthening corporate governance in the european union. in my practice as a lawyer, i have often encountered problems arising from the mismatch between company law and corporate governance. i believe that the lisbon strategy has made a significant contribution to the progress of the work. the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the best engine for economies, cannot be underestimated, and it is therefore gratifying that the commission has also noted the need to create the best possible environment for this type of activity. particular attention should be paid to the proper analysis of these environments and any barriers, including administrative ones, should be removed as soon as possible. i agree that the report we are debating is intended to lay out a road map for parliament's next steps in relation to company law. the implementation of the 2003 action plan has not encountered any particular difficulties and its main objectives, such as increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of enterprises and strengthening shareholder rights, remain relevant. however, further action is needed to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy, namely to increase employment, increase industrial competitiveness and improve the business environment, and, very importantly, to promote the so-called social europe. the commission should therefore not delay in presenting the 14th company law directive on the transfer abroad of the registered office of a limited liability company.
mr. chairman, please! according to the international civil aviation organization, air transport in europe carries more than 320 million passengers a year. that means that about 110,000 airplanes a day are emitting exhaust fumes that irreversibly pollute the air. the amount of carbon dioxide emitted by aviation is estimated to reach 5% in 2050 (compared to 2% in 2000). eurocontrol forecasts that by 2020 the number of flights in the european union will be more than double that of 2003. the data show that the negative effects of aviation development on society outweigh its positive aspects related to technological progress. efforts should be made to reduce this negative environmental impact, while maintaining the principle of competitiveness in the face of the growing market for low-cost airlines, which are extremely popular in europe. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. however, the main emphasis should be on emissions trading and the establishment of an appropriate system for its implementation. the aviation allowance trading scheme should cover all flights to and from any airport in the european union, irrespective of the country of origin of the airline. where possible, it should also cover intercontinental flights in transit through the airspace of the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, europe is rich in history and while the european parliament should not seek to assume the role of the sole holder of the truth about the past, it is nevertheless important for the future of european construction that parliament should feel responsible for the european memory which is the main constituent factor of european unity. it's 2006, the memory of the poznan workers' uprising in june 1956... here is the hungarian revolution in october 1956: the dramatic events of the struggle for bread and freedom. this is 2006... seventy years ago, general franco imposed a dictatorial regime against freedom, democracy and the rule of law. spain, which should have been one of the founding countries of the european union, found itself, against the will of its people, separated from the rest of europe for half a century. in thinking about these events, we should not count the injustices, the hatred, the conflicts, the human suffering, the civil war and the dictatorship: we should remember that the spanish experience is a european experience, one of the experiences that led to the construction of the european union. so that such events can never happen again. europe should not forget that spain has been able to close this dramatic chapter by consensus through reconciliation, through dialogue in peace. let us pay tribute to the courage and wisdom of the spanish people. on these anniversary days, parliament and the whole of europe should be filled with the feeling of freedom which constitutes them; the european parliament must be able to express its views on the situation in the middle east and on the situation in the region. thank you very much. (applause) i would like to thank
mr. chairman, please! the fact that we have democracy, civil liberties, private property and tolerance in central and western europe today is the consequence of the fact that communism did not take over our continent. he could have! in eastern europe, the polish victory in the 1920 war against the bolshevik invasion and the determined resistance of catholic poland to soviet domination were the main obstacles to communism. the fact that communism has not taken hold in the west is largely due to the victorious civil war of traditional spain against the communist governments. the spanish left, although it came to power democratically, behaved like the bolsheviks in russia. the main attack was against the church. nearly 7,000 clergymen were murdered. churches were desecrated, roadside crosses and statues of saints were shot. this attack on catholic spain was met with an immediate reaction from the traditional forces. an international brigade organized by bolshevik russia came to the aid of communist spain. in accordance with communist custom, it, like the entire apparatus of republican power, was entirely controlled by communist party cells and its secret services. thanks to the spanish right, thanks to the spanish army and its leaders, and especially thanks to general francisco franco, the communist coup against catholic spain was thwarted. thus attempts to spread the communist plague to other lands were also stopped. the presence of figures like franco, salazar and de valera in european politics guaranteed the survival of europe with its traditional values. we don't have statesmen like that today. it is with some sadness that we see today the historical revisionism that is to present everything traditional and catholic in a negative light and everything secular and socialist in a positive one. let's not forget that. nazism in germany and fascism in italy also had socialist and atheistic roots. the strength of the socialist and anti-catholic bloc in this house is a matter of great concern. we had clear examples of this in last month's vote on the tolerance papers and the 7th framework programme. christian europe is losing to socialist and atheist europe. that's got to change. (opposed)
mr. chairman, please! like mr schulz, i want to use my right as a deputy and be brief. i regret that the president and the group of presidents have decided to have such a long debate on what is connected with francisco franco, while not being allowed a single minute to dedicate to the terrible massacre that took place in katyn, which i asked for on behalf of the poles and all those who died there. i'm very sorry about that.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today marks the end of the legislative work on the package of regulations relating to cohesion policy for 2007-2013. we all remember the heated debate on the role and significance of cohesion policy in the european union, which is implementing the lisbon strategy, and the attempts to gradually reduce cohesion policy and even renationalize it. today we are discussing these facts in historical terms, but it is worthwhile, here in the european parliament, to keep reminding that the implementation of the principle of solidarity through, inter alia, cohesion policy is a permanent part of the functioning of the european union. its forms may change, adapted to new purposes, but to challenge it is to deny the basis on which the community functions. implementing cohesion policy therefore involves not only allocating funds and determining how they are used, but above all setting its actual objectives. adaptation of methods and means of implementation and subsequent practical implementation of the activities. in accordance with the treaty provisions, the policy of social and economic cohesion can be implemented with the help of common financial resources, but also without their participation, through joint actions in different member states aimed at similar objectives. the implementation of joint actions that go beyond national borders is covered by the interreg community initiative, which covers cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation, in the current programming period. experience with interregion has shown that crossborder initiatives undertaken jointly by local and regional authorities from several member states are of great importance to them, create networks of cooperation and build mutual trust. these are therefore activities which, with a small amount of funding, create a very high added value. the new programming period should build on these positive experiences and, therefore, on the one hand, the typical interreg actions have been integrated into the mainstream of cohesion policy under objective iii and, on the other, the need has arisen to create new legal and organisational opportunities for the cooperation partners. hence the innovative idea of creating a new legal instrument that would be helpful in all types of cross-border, transnational and interregional activities. the initiative also aims to give cooperation partners, who do not always use european funds, a tool to help them organise various activities, including public services of a cross-border nature. according to the proposed regulation, public authorities and public entities created with their participation, i.e. governmental, regional and local authorities, will be able to sign an agreement within the european union, known as a convention, to register the new institution as a european grouping of territorial cooperation and to acquire legal personality for it, after agreeing on the objectives and principles of cooperation. a european grouping of territorial cooperation with legal personality would be recognised throughout the european union after notification to all member states. the new regulation introduces a new legal entity, which is why it has been met with many comments, doubts and even protests when dealing with systemic issues. the work on the regulation has been an example of consistent compromise, requiring repeated concessions and difficult decisions. it is worth noting that a solution has been developed which guarantees full control by the member states over the establishment and operation of the egtc. the compromise reached did not alter the nature of the new solution or its innovative form. today's vote is the culmination of legislative work, the opening up of new possibilities, but above all it is a form of appreciation for all those who have been building truly european, decentralised international cooperation for many years. as a rapporteur member from a country which became a member of the european union in the last enlargement, i had the opportunity to learn about the complexities of the legislative process and therefore i would like to thank in particular for the very constructive and positive cooperation, in particular commissioner danuta hübner, the representatives of the directorate-general for regional policy (dg regio), the representatives of the successive presidencies, in particular the austrian presidency, the secretariat of the committee on regional development and the political advisers, as well as my polish colleagues and experts.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour to be able to speak in your parliament as the representative of the presidency of the european union. the importance of this issue is underlined by the opportunity to participate in the finalisation of a package of regulations which is essential for the unity of the union and its regional development. the objectives of the finnish presidency will be presented tomorrow by prime minister vanhanen. first of all, i would like to thank the european parliament for the good cooperation it has had with the council. the negotiations on the cohesion policy regulations have required two years of close cooperation between the different institutions. if parliament votes today on the package of regulations, as recommended by the committees, the reform of cohesion policy and the implementation of the new programming period can start as planned at the beginning of 2007. the european parliament has played a key role in defining the content of the union's future cohesion policy. in its guidelines, parliament has placed particular emphasis on issues of importance to citizens and civil society, such as partnership, respect for environmental values and the participation of people with disabilities in the implementation of programmes. parliament called for uniform practices to be applied in the member states in the calculation of community co-financing and in the treatment of vat. parliament also played an active role in the creation of the instruments of european interregional cooperation. i have just mentioned a few key examples of the issues raised by parliament. the majority of the amendments tabled by parliament have been taken into account in the proposals for regulations under discussion today. in addition to the adoption of regulations, the community strategic guidelines on cohesion policy are also needed before the legislative framework for implementing the programmes is finalised. in accordance with these guidelines, member states shall draw up their national strategic reference frameworks, which shall guide the preparation of regional development programmes. we have set an ambitious timetable for the adoption of the cohesion policy guidelines. i trust in the cooperation of the various parties and hope that the fruitful cooperation with the european parliament will continue. the report on the strategic guidelines was finalised by parliament's committee on regional development in may. we are aiming to have the council's position ready by july so that the european parliament can deal with the document at the beginning of the september part-session. the commitment of all parties to a fast timetable creates the conditions for the strategic guidelines for cohesion policy to enter into force in october. in this case, the commission may adopt the programming documents so that their implementation can start at the beginning of 2007. the main objective of the finnish presidency in the field of regional development is to put into effect the regulations and the community strategic guidelines on cohesion. the european parliament has worked with determination and flexibility on the reform of cohesion policy. at the same time, negotiations on an interinstitutional agreement, regulations and strategic guidelines have been possible. i want to thank you for your constructive cooperation. i would like to thank the committee on regional development in particular for their expertise. i would also like to thank the previous presidencies, the commission and the commissioners for their meritorious work in the reform of cohesion policy. the committee of the regions and the economic and social committee have also made a welcome contribution to the preparation of the report, by highlighting issues of concern to the regions and citizens. i am confident that the legislative framework proposed will provide a good basis for an effective european cohesion policy which takes account of the specific characteristics of the regions. (applause) i would like to thank the
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to start by thanking you for your continuous support and encouragement and for the role the european parliament has played in preparing a reform of cohesion policy. first of all, let me say how much we appreciate your role in securing a significant financial envelope. secondly, we appreciate your contribution to setting up a new architecture and also new instruments for this policy. you have insisted on establishing a more ambitious territorial cooperation objective. that objective has a considerable and clear european added value, in particular in the context of the enlargement of the european union. i am sure that the increase of 4% in the financial resources available for this objective of reinforcing transnational and interregional cooperation, which had suffered the most substantial reductions in the european council decision of december 2005, will help us to be more efficient and more effective in bringing european regions across the continent together. in addition, i would like to thank you for your support for developing a unique instrument designed to overcome the problems encountered by member states, regions and local authorities in undertaking cross-border, transnational or interregional cooperation actions, whether funded by structural funds or not. for the first time ever, the eu will provide an adequate legal framework for enhanced cross-border, interregional and transnational cooperation. thirdly, i appreciate your role in ensuring that cohesion policy will apply to all regions and member states and that it will contribute to more and better jobs and faster economic growth. in this context, i am also very happy that you welcomed our efforts to create new supporting instruments such as ‘jeremy’ and ‘jessica’, which will bring in new partners and expertise from european financial institutions. that will address genuine market values and make the structural funds work much harder. let me use this opportunity to express my personal thanks to the rapporteurs, mr hatzidakis, mr andria, mr silva peneda, mr fava and mr olbrycht, and to say how much we appreciated the role mrs krehl played as rapporteur for the financial perspective and her work on the community strategic guidelines. let me also thank mr beaupuy, without whose commitment the urban dimension would probably not be so prominent in our new policy. it was a pleasure to work with mr galeote, chairman of the committee on regional development, whom i thank very much for his commitment. he always maintained a very constructive and cooperative spirit and we shared the same principles and priorities throughout the negotiations. jointly we have managed to avoid a policy based on a system of double standards in the application of the rules on the eligibility of non-recoverable vat and in the application of the principle of total eligible cost as the basis of co-financing. we will not have two distinct cohesion policies for europe, one for the old and one for the new member states. that would have been, i believe, at odds with our efforts to produce an efficient and coherent policy, with transparency, with sound financial management and with simplified regulations. you have shared our insistence on the need to strengthen the partnership principle. we have jointly reinforced the role of ngos, local and civil society and the environmental partners in our policy. with your support we have also strengthened the provisions on non-discrimination and sustainable development. however, there are a number of items where we failed fully to convince our member states of their added value. i am thinking here of the concept of a community reserve, of our intention to render the urban dimension of our policy mandatory and of parliament’s idea of recycling the potentially unspent resources allocated to cohesion policy. as requested by parliament, the commission has prepared a joint declaration in which the commission commits itself to presenting an assessment of the budgetary execution of the structural funds and the cohesion fund for the 2007-2013 programming period, including the consequences of the implementation of the decommitment rule. our major concern in the months to come is to ensure that the new, good-quality cohesion programmes will start on time. much remains to be done. we are working with the finnish presidency to ensure that the community strategy guidelines on cohesion can be adopted by the council after the european parliament has delivered its opinion. i understand that we can achieve that at the end of september or early october. the member states will then formally present their national strategies concerning how they propose to use cohesion policy, after which we will discuss in detail the operational programmes, with final adoption by the commission. in order to save time the commission has already entered into informal discussions. we have already received the draft national programmes from 21 member states. we are gradually completing the preparation of the new 2007-2013 generation, but we have to think long-term to ensure that cohesion policy will continue to support convergence and the economic and social modernisation of europe. the fourth cohesion report – due for publication in spring next year – and the cohesion forum to be held at that time will be important steps and will flesh out the ideas for the future. i look forward to your debate, convinced that your decision today will allow us successfully to finalise preparations for the new generation of our common cohesion policy.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, like my colleague, commissioner hübner, i would like to thank you for your support over the last few years. today, almost two years after the commission's proposal, you are voting on the cohesion regulation package. thanks to your efforts and support, this package is balanced and represents real reform. the european social fund, which will celebrate its 50th anniversary in 2007, will retain its role. it will continue to be an instrument providing direct support to individual citizens and as such a key element in bringing the union closer to the people. equally important, however, is that the funds, and in particular the esf, will promote community priorities much more clearly than before. the commission's efforts will focus on ensuring consistency between the priorities of funding from the funds and those of the renewed lisbon strategy. this is of vital importance in times of new challenges related to enlargement and demographic change and globalisation. in this context, i would like to highlight three main elements of the new esf regulation. first, logic follows the strategic approach. during the programming process, the commission will agree with the member states and regions on the main priorities and objectives, which will be fully in line with the renewed lisbon strategy. secondly, the new text clearly calls for the concentration of resources on community objectives in the field of the european employment strategy, including the major employment objectives in the fields of social inclusion, education and training. concentrating resources is essential to success. thirdly, by promoting human capital, the european social fund can make a significant contribution to the creation of a knowledge-based society. promoting an educated, skilled and adaptable workforce as well as fostering innovation is key to increasing employment, labour productivity, growth, social cohesion and social security. furthermore, this regulation also includes a priority to improve institutional capacity in convergence regions and countries eligible for support from the cohesion fund, with strong support from the european parliament. i am convinced that this priority has a very important role to play in improving the efficiency of public administration, thereby also increasing competitiveness, strengthening sustainable job creation and promoting social inclusion. i would also like to emphasise that the european social fund's task is to reduce employment disparities not only at national level but also at regional and local level. the creation of appropriate skills at all these levels is an integral part of and contributes to the strategy, growth and employment. of course, these elements are only parts of the whole. thanks to the european parliament, the wording has been strengthened in a number of areas. the fund will continue to play a significant role in gender equality and equal opportunities, both through specific projects and by applying these principles in all areas of life. the fund will continue to support projects that directly address discrimination in the workplace, this can be linked to the priority of strengthening the social inclusion of disadvantaged citizens, especially with regard to their sustainable participation in employment. these concrete actions help people to take action that is socially beneficial and demonstrate how the fund contributes to the dissemination of the values on which our european social model is based. the european social fund will also provide specific support to the social partners in convergence regions. it is thanks to the european parliament that the dictionary is very clear in its present sense, which i appreciate. the active role of the social partners is an essential precondition for balanced and harmonious socioeconomic development. i would also like to thank parliament for its active support for the inclusion of significant provisions on partnership in the new general regulation. this is a key principle which applies to all the funds in question. this principle allows for the involvement of actors such as the social partners, civil society, non-governmental organisations and equality bodies at all stages. so it can be said that an extraordinary result has been achieved. and so let me take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the committee on employment and social affairs for the presidency of jan andersson, who has been a great support to the commission. it prepared almost 100 amendments to the regulation at first reading. the commission accepted the vast majority of them. in this respect, i would like to express my appreciation for the work of the chief rapporteur, josé silva peneda. so far, we have worked together to achieve a certain result, and now i would like to focus on the future. in the coming months, member states will submit their national strategic reference frameworks and operational programmes to the commission. this will allow member states to take important strategic decisions on future public investment. most member states have already made considerable progress in the preparation of these documents. however, as we have seen from contacts with the member states, there is one thing that i think may be worrying. it seems that in a significant number of member states, the investment made through the european social fund in our greatest asset, people and their skills, may be a little less than optimal. this is a serious matter, because the right balance needs to be found between investment in physical capital and investment in people. how we invest today in our workforce in the form of training to adapt to new challenges, in our education for young and old, in our support for the unemployed to help them to help themselves, all of this will shape our future. ultimately, this will have the greatest impact on the well-being and prosperity of our citizens. the commission will do all that is necessary to reach, in discussion with the member states, a balanced solution consistent with the priorities of community policies and the common interest of european citizens. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, allow me to reiterate my thanks and appreciation for your support and for the successful work carried out, as i am convinced that today we will take another step forward on the road towards an effective european union cohesion policy.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in preparing the opinion on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs on the draft council regulation laying down general rules for the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund, we proposed 32 recommendations for this document. in our opinion, we have focused primarily on the integration of the needs of disabled people in the implementation of projects financed by the structural funds. we also called for the criteria for eligibility under the regional competitiveness and employment objective to be extended to the level of education in the member state concerned. we also asked for the bureaucratic procedures for using the structural funds to be simplified, both by means of a larger amount of advance payments to beneficiaries at the start of the implementation of operational programmes and by maintaining the so-called multi-fund system, i.e. the possibility of financing programmes not from just one but from a larger number of funds. we also proposed a slight distinction between reporting and reporting rigidity, believing that excessive bureaucracy does not serve the efficient use of european funds, which are the basis for the development of many regions. not all our recommendations have, of course, been accepted, but that is the logic of parliamentary work and compromise which underlies decisions in a community as diverse as the european union. but we're very happy with the way this collaboration turned out. they particularly welcome the solutions for disabled people, social and non-governmental organisations, but also the very sensible proposals on the issue of recognising vat as an eligible cost for certain activities. in view of all this, i join mr hatzidakis in his request that the proposed regulation be put to the vote.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the uen group, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs. this marathon, mr. hatzidakis, has been a struggle, but it ends with a sensible compromise. the fact that we have managed to reach a political agreement which takes account of most of the european parliament's reservations is a success in itself. the commission is aware of the passage of time and the need to prepare the member states' legislation for the use of the funds before the financial perspective for 2007-13 comes into force. member states must link these actions to their national strategic reference frameworks. the eu funds are financial arrangements with the own money of the individual member states, regional and local authorities. so if you look at these funds in this way, you see that a book of new opportunities is opening up. some compare the potential for positive change to the effects that the marshall plan was supposed to have. it's not a stretch. all countries are counting on this, including those countries that for years vegetated behind the iron curtain, not through their own fault, including poland, and especially its eastern provinces. the union today needs genuine internal solidarity, it needs political, economic, social and territorial cohesion. we live in regions with very different levels of development and prosperity. it is worth recalling that some 27% of the community's population, or 123 million people, live in areas where gdp per capita is less than 3⁄4 of the eu average. of course, we must also face the challenges posed by globalisation, competition, scientific and technological progress on the one hand, and the demographic crisis, ageing populations, the growing number of disabled people and immigration on the other. it is hoped that the funds, if properly used, will help to solve some of these problems. finally, i would like to stress the need to monitor the rules adopted and to react quickly if necessary. no euro can be wasted, no opportunity can be squandered. this is the best way of bringing the union closer to its citizens.
mr. chairman, please! europe has not yet ceased to unite. the regions of the new member states will lag behind the 'old union' economically and socially for a long time to come, and we must already, as a union, face the challenges of globalisation. hence the strong need to adapt our policy areas to changing realities. i welcome the fact that the european social fund, as the commissioner has said, is putting emphasis on education, closing the employment gap and investing in human resources, taking into account the opportunities for people with disabilities. the new regulations on the funds (the funds have always been a source of optimism for citizens) will show us that it is possible to function effectively even within the framework of the old existing treaties, without a new constitution.
mr. chairman, please! in taking part in the debate on the regulations governing the disbursement of structural fund funds, i would like to draw your attention to three serious shortcomings in this respect. firstly, the commitment appropriations in heading 1b, i.e. expenditure for growth and employment, are more than eur 30 billion lower than previously proposed, which must have resulted in a significant reduction in the appropriations for individual countries, e.g. in the case of poland, they are more than eur 3 billion lower. secondly, the months-long dispute in the council of the european union has led to a serious delay in the adoption of the financial perspective, which has contributed to the fact that the regulations on the structural funds are only being discussed in the second half of 2006. thirdly, this delay will mean that the so-called community strategic support framework will not be ready until autumn 2006 and the national strategic reference framework, prepared by the individual member states, will not be ready until 2007. in this situation, the procedure for programming the funds will be considerably delayed and thus 2007 will unfortunately be largely lost in terms of the use of funds.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate is the culmination of two years of work on reforming the structural funds. after difficult negotiations on the financial perspective and the whole legislative package for cohesion policy, we can now say that we have reached a good compromise. between 2007 and 2013, almost 36% of the eu budget, or €308 billion, was allocated to the structural funds. this is less than we expected, but it provides the basis for long-term development plans, which is particularly important for the poorest regions. the new rules will make it easier and more accessible to citizens to pursue cohesion policy, taking into account the problems of the new member states in particular, such as vat eligibility, urban issues, equal opportunities and the needs of people with disabilities. building territorial cohesion in a highly diverse european union is not an easy task, but with the legal framework and funds in place, our governments and local authorities still need to be strongly committed to making the most of this unique opportunity we have created for the development of the european union's regions. congratulations to all the reporters! this is another great step in the history of europe!
i would like to express my support for the commission's proposal to create a community legal instrument, namely the european grouping of territorial cooperation. i'm totally behind this initiative. it was necessary to improve existing arrangements and overcome the difficulties in territorial cooperation associated with different legal systems and procedures. i am convinced that it will facilitate and improve crossborder, as well as interregional and international cooperation. this treaty objective of greater social and economic cohesion has taken on particular importance since the union was enlarged by 10 countries, including poland, on 1 may 2006. and that's where the poorest regions of the eu are. but it cannot be viewed from a purely economic perspective. it is important to recognise their cultural richness and how much they have to offer to their partners in cooperation. legal and administrative problems should not impede development and should be tackled much more effectively than before. i hope that the regulation on the creation of a european grouping of territorial cooperation, which has been in the works for almost two years, the council's common position and the report, which was prepared by mr olbricht and adopted by parliament, will contribute to achieving this objective and to developing a solid and harmonious model of european integration.
the next item on the agenda is a statement by the commission on the economic and social impact of corporate restructuring in europe.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. record profits on the one hand, closures and relocations of businesses on the other. and many people in the eu today are faced with the same fearful question every day: when does it affect me, when does it affect my workplace, when is it my turn? in the process of transformation in central and eastern europe, entire economies have collapsed and millions of jobs have disappeared. but people understood that this was the result of communist mismanagement. but many people are baffled by what is happening in some industries in the old eu countries: textiles, footwear, furniture, household appliances, pharmaceuticals and cars - sectors that were previously considered safe are now in turmoil. few people are prepared for the structural change we are witnessing. it is therefore high time to help the many who have lost their bearings to find them again. the importance of today's discussion goes far beyond the possible closure of an automobile plant in portugal. it is a debate on the future of work in europe. it is also time to state some truths clearly: firstly, we are in a new phase of competition and structural change will continue to accelerate. we must not turn a blind eye to this. competition is competition whether we want to play or not. the question is not whether we can survive the competition. the great social question of our time is how many life chances this competition will cost us, i.e. the great social question of our time is the question of the future of our jobs. and we need to face him. anyone who still believes that other issues are paramount does not understand the world of today and its challenges. we need more sustainable, environmentally sound growth, and we need more and better jobs - otherwise the social face of europe will become a cold and cynical face, a face that does not fit our european idea of life. this concept is based on the division of responsibility between the individual and society. it is based on solidarity, social equality and social cohesion. the keyword for the european society of the 21st century, which will offer people new opportunities for life, is competitiveness. we know that a fortress portugal, a fortress germany, a fortress poland or europe is not an option in the open world of the 21st century. we must face and lead open competition, and we must lead it to the top, to the best solution, the best technology, the highest standard. secondly, we have launched a common european policy for growth and employment. this policy must now be vigorously implemented - at european, national and regional levels - otherwise we will be faced with the prospect of further dismantling of our social model - in the form of closed factories and research laboratories that have moved away, because that too is already in place. i would caution against thinking that we can easily accept that production is going away, since research and development will remain with us. once production is gone, research and development will follow. a policy for growth and employment can only be a policy which offers favourable conditions for enterprises - i said enterprises. in the economy, in the companies, jobs are being created and in the companies, jobs are being lost. no order from any single member state or from the eu as a whole can change that in the slightest. but we can do one thing - we can have a policy that creates the external conditions to make it attractive for companies to do their jobs, to grow, to invest and to create jobs in europe. this is the meaning of the word 'business-friendly policy'. thirdly, an active industrial policy that keeps industry in europe is more necessary than ever. the idea that industry belongs in the museum of the world is as wrong as the idea that industry is the world's biggest polluter. i advise anyone who still thinks that way to change their mind. if you want to drive industry out of europe, you are playing with the future of the people who work in industry, you are playing with the future of those who work in services related to industry - not just millions, but tens of millions - you are playing with the future of small and mediumsized enterprises in the long supply chain, you are playing with the future of europe as a whole! we need a strong european industry in the future, with companies that are strong worldwide. it is not just about european champions, we need world leaders, because it is really about a world championship. this is another job that the state cannot do, so companies have to do it themselves. but we can help them. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. we have talked to all the parties involved about what is necessary and what is feasible to keep the car industry strong in europe. i hope that parliament will understand why i am calling for a policy of not 'going all in' on future emission standards, but for proposals that we can make in due course, knowing whether our high standards are technologically feasible and whether they are affordable to the majority of people. ladies and gentlemen, we can build the zero-emission car today. but no one i know personally could afford such a car - i suspect no one in this parliament could either. we must do our part to ensure that european cars can continue to be produced and sold - not because of the cars, not even because of those who buy or drive them, but because of the people who need the jobs. and another thing: an active industrial policy does not stop at the borders of the old european union, but it also applies to the new member states. the enlargement is not the curse of european jobs, nor is it the cause of structural change. the truth is that in 17 of 20 industrial sectors the old europe is much stronger, and only in three sectors do the new member states now have competitive advantages. in fact, the automobile industry is one of them. but that will help us as china and other developing countries become stronger competitors in this industry. as regards the automobile industry - which is the one that has triggered this debate - i would like to say that i am firmly convinced that we will keep the automobile industry in europe for a long time, that it will be strong, but that it will look different in ten years from today. there will be consolidations. i am not saying that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. what we can predict with some certainty is a mixed message - mixed for western europe and for central and eastern europe. we will no longer have any significant volume growth in the automobile industry in western europe. demand will only increase slightly. productivity is expected to rise more than demand, and anyone who understands economics knows what that means: this means that the pressure on automobile jobs in the old member states will continue to increase. as far as we know, the major european manufacturers - and this includes general motors - are not planning to move capacity from western europe to somewhere else. but they will - and this is the key point - create new capacity where the greater demand is generated. this trend is already clearly visible today for the entire european automotive industry. on the positive side, however, we see that the r & d capacities of not only european manufacturers but also international manufacturers are once again more concentrated in europe, and especially in the old sites, as is the case with general motors with its european activities. ladies and gentlemen, businesses have a great social responsibility for europe, and this must be seen on a broad front. i do not criticize in advance every company decision which involves a change of location. i'm not allowed to. it would also be stupid, because the internationalisation of production and research is inevitable if we are to remain competitive in the long term. i criticize those who put short-term profit over the sustainable solution. i criticise those who, when pressed, look for the cheapest solution in the future, without regard for the people they put on the streets. i criticise those who pay themselves high salaries and are not worth a single penny as responsible managers because they have brought their companies and their jobs to the wall. i want companies in europe that are always striving for the top, that are driving innovation, that can change their profile, that are training their employees to be able to take on new tasks. and of course, we have a job to help with that. but we also need to expose the limits of politics. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. nor in the case of azambuja. but we have some very clear rules, and we have to insist vigorously on adhering to those rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and the social dialogue in connection with the closure or relocation of a plant also includes the question: what has the company done to give the people concerned a new future, for example in terms of qualification, further training and retraining? and that includes asking, what have we done to help? we also have the instrument of aid for firms in difficulty - this was also used in the azambuja case. aid was approved in 2002. the difficulties of the work are not entirely new. however, i would like to point out very clearly that the state aid authorised in this case - investment aid from the portuguese budget - was granted under european rules, which means that the beneficiary company must remain in the location for which it received the investment aid for at least five years after the investment has been completed. the portuguese government is currently examining, at the commission's request, whether funds from european funds have also been used for this project. if that were the case, we would have to ensure that our conditions are strictly observed here too - and i can promise you that the commission will do that. european taxpayers' money is there to strengthen the sites, not to destroy jobs. (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the restructuring of enterprises in europe is the result of the development of the productive forces, the implementation of technical progress and the globalisation of the whole economy. this process has serious social and economic consequences. production is concentrated in regions that are economically and technically stronger, at the expense of those that are less developed. this is particularly evident in the new member states, where entire industries have disappeared, e.g. in poland light industry and to a large extent automotive, electronics and mining, and with them jobs. the increasing globalisation of production and the liberalisation of the market are further deepening economic and social disparities. the regions with high agricultural production and a developed network of agro-food industries, especially sugar, fruit and vegetable and refrigeration industries, are particularly affected. poland is again the leading country and region in terms of losses. so who's the winner? the 'old' member states and economically strong industrial regions benefit. they are and will be, especially as the european union is focusing its efforts on achieving positive effects in trade with third countries in industrial goods, which account for 85% of its trade. agricultural products account for only 15% of turnover. so the question is, is it really a fundamental question? how does the eu's policy on business relate to the fundamental principles on which the european union is built, such as european solidarity, equal opportunities, sustainable development and human rights?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are talking about growth and jobs, which means we are talking about the lisbon strategy. research and innovation, science and industry cooperation and, therefore, the knowledge-based economy are at the heart of the lisbon strategy's success. the report by mrs del castillo vera, whom i congratulate, and the proposals from the european commission, show very well what we are lacking in europe. first of all, we're short of funds. in the 2007-2013 budget, paragraph 1a competitiveness was cut the most, by almost half. let me repeat: europe cannot succeed without a financial contribution to research and innovation. we need to increase funding for science and new technologies in each of the countries. this is a task for the european council as a whole and for future presidencies. national budgets are just as important as the european budget. second, we lack the means to expand knowledge and share knowledge. what is needed is a genuine partnership within and outside the eu countries, the use of the potential of the whole union in large consortia, the creation of a european research and innovation area innovation is the key word the best use of resources. only openness and the flow of information can ensure synergies between different programmes at different levels: eu, national, regional. this requires a single common it programme for the whole union. but there is another success pole of the lisbon strategy: a genuine common market for services, labour, goods and capital. without such a common market, we will have difficulty in succeeding in research and innovation, in science and in new technologies. only a genuine common market will provide better opportunities for growth and employment.
mr. chairman, please! the european paradox is that a high level of basic research is matched by a relatively low level of innovation. in poland, this has been influenced by the takeover of many industries by foreign companies, which have their own institutes, design offices and laboratories in their own countries. as a result, our industrial research facilities have been liquidated in recent years. the weak transposition of research into the rationalisation of production and services and innovation is due to, inter alia, the choice of multinational companies to compete in research and innovation, the difficulty of obtaining tangible financial benefits for the creators of new ideas and patents, the location by multinational economic structures, e.g. microsoft, with the help of patents, possible competitors from the european union, limited budgetary funds, as well as minimised funding for research in the defence industry. the first is to simplify the mechanisms which will enable the authors of inventions, not only patentable but also other inventions, to obtain personal financial benefits from patenting them. secondly, the monopoly of multinational companies, which block european competitors with their patents, must be curbed. if a patent granted in the union blocks the development of innovation in a given field by deliberately not using it for a certain period of time, i propose that the idea of the invention be made available to other users free of charge. thirdly, every large company should be obliged to create a fund for technical progress, rationalization and innovation out of its profits. this is a solution that has already been used in poland. on the other hand, small and medium-sized enterprises could pool their resources through organisations such as chambers of commerce.
madam president! the rapporteur has read the overriding message of the communication very well: she finds in it new motivations for the idea of the lisbon agenda, which for many europeans remains the 'trademark' of the union. the communication simply recommends maintaining the preference for research and innovation, which has been stated for years, as the necessary stimulus for the transformation of the modern world, including economic development as the decisive instrument for stimulating the labour market. the new ten strongly support the need to create an increasingly attractive environment for modern research centres in europe. there are, however, concerns, justified by the still evident legal and administrative barriers to the participation of scientists from central and eastern europe in these studies. it is all the more gratifying to note the itre committee's acceptance of the amendments to the report, which were submitted specifically for researchers in this field, especially those at the threshold of their careers. at the same time, the commission has shown - and this should be emphasised - a great deal of concern for the problem of small and medium-sized enterprises. in the report by the honourable member we see a suggestion that particular attention should be paid to the specific characteristics of micro and small enterprises. the scientific community sees this as a suitable context for influencing the european commission to create a database that is both a record of the current state of research and, as a result of the growing expectations of the scientific community, a kind of guarantee for the protection of intellectual property rights. the new economic policy thus conceived should create new opportunities for the flexible choice of economic instruments to ensure, in line with the message of our debate, a steady increase in employment.
madam president! six years after the launch of the ten-year lisbon strategy, the european union is still hardly the most dynamic economy in the world. catching up with the united states or japan is still a dream. it's hard to wonder if words don't follow deeds. the eu spends just 1.93% of its gdp on research and development, the us 2.59% and japan 3.15% of its gdp. low r & d expenditure and lack of adequate support for innovation do not increase the potential for growth and employment in the european union. it is therefore essential to ensure that the budget allocated to instruments to support smes, such as the competitiveness and innovation programme and the jeremie initiative, is adequate. by promoting entrepreneurship, by stimulating innovation, we must also invest continuously in the development of science. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's research policy, and that the commission should be consulted on the future of the european union's research policy.
madam president! the discussion we ended a few minutes ago was about very similar issues. all the speakers have described the situation perfectly. to grow, you have to invest, including, of course, in research and innovation. this truism, this diagnosis of the situation, this direction of action, is described in detail in the draft resolution of the european parliament, but it is ominous to say that europe is not involved in the acquisition of new knowledge, that it is not able to share knowledge, that it is not supporting knowledge financially. we have to change that! we need to start putting more beds in basic research, and we need to expand public aid for research and development, or we're going to cut the branch we're sitting on. if we do not do this, then the modern, dynamic europe that many citizens of other countries want will become a technical, technological and economic backwater in which europeans will not want to live and work, let alone like it.
vice-president of the commission. competence concerning disability is generally a matter for member states under the subsidiarity principle. the needs of all people with disabilities are taken into account in all community policies in order to achieve equal treatment. these include disabled ex-prisoners. the importance of employment opportunities for people with disabilities is well recognised and is reflected not only in the european employment strategy but also by the european council. you will remember its conclusions of spring 2006. in terms of other programmes, the commission’s disability action plan contained in its communication com(2005)604 outlines what has been done with respect to all people with disabilities in the european union. concerning the possible competence of the european union under the third pillar, there is currently no eu legislation governing the status of disabled persons in prisons. that is mainly due to the fact that any action on judicial cooperation in criminal matters that aims at approximating rules applicable in member states is, according to the available legal basis, conditional upon the requirement that such an action is necessary to improve cooperation between the member states. many proposals made by the commission provided for in the hague action plan aim at facilitating the social rehabilitation of offenders, even if they are not specifically devoted to the rehabilitation of disabled prisoners. there is, for example, a project presented by austria, finland and sweden on the transfer of prisoners. i will consider, together with my colleague mr špidla, how measures undertaken or planned in this area of competence could be supported and complemented by measures that can be taken under the third pillar.
madam president! i would like to ask a general question. if disabled people, in accordance with the rule of law, are rightly placed as all citizens under the requirements of law (e.g. sentenced to prison terms), why are the principles of equal participation not applicable in the labour market? why are disabled people not given full opportunities to use their skills? why is it that modern democracies cannot approach the expected civilized ceiling on this issue?
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank mr stockman for his report. it covers a very extensive and important subject which concerns the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the harmonisation of technical requirements and administrative procedures in the field of civil aviation. attention should be paid to the comprehensive approach to an issue which is of great importance for the proper functioning of air traffic, including safety standards and a good understanding of competition. the document itself, which is some 480 pages long, shows the necessary detail. the procedures set out in the regulation are precise and specific. they relate to the aircraft itself, including its navigation and communication equipment and maintenance rules. they also concern flight parameters and flight crew. in this case, the issues of certificates, flight and duty time limitations and necessary rest time are addressed. they also cover problems related to airports and the operating principles of air operators, including aviation fuel issues. it also addresses the issue of meteorological conditions and the rules to be followed in the event of reduced visibility or other dangerous situations. the desire to maintain, where it already exists, and to introduce, where it is not yet fully applicable, uniform principles and criteria for conduct and for achieving the state of the art is evident in order to guarantee the highest possible level of air transport safety. the very rapid development of air transport that we are witnessing requires strict adherence to procedures and strict technical standards. it is therefore necessary to harmonise the operating rules for commercial air transport. it is also important that union rules are respected in all community countries and that non-eu carriers and air operators operating flights to union countries are obliged to respect them unequivocally. i have some insight into the matter, for i am a doctor of aeronautical engineering and have had the opportunity to teach classes at the rzeszów university of technology to students of aeronautics, including future pilots. this allows me to say that the compromise solution proposed is responsible and substantive. of course, systematic and comprehensive monitoring of the adopted rules will also be of great importance. in this context, i support the compromise reached and call for a consensus.
the commission's vice-president mr president, we must save our strength, so i will be very brief. i would like to thank parliament for accepting a compromise negotiated between the three institutions and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr stockmann. the contribution of parliament has made it possible to make considerable progress. it thus clarified the areas in which work needs to be continued, in particular in collaboration with the european aviation safety agency. i would like to say in this connection that, in line with the amendment proposed in the compromise, we will look carefully at the specific situations of night flights. as regards controls, we have two levels: those managed by the european aviation safety agency, to see whether the european rules are being applied correctly by the member states, and those managed by the member states. we're making sure we're stepping up the checks. mr president, i hope that this text will receive a large majority and thus improve air safety in europe, guarantee fair competition and facilitate the mobility of personnel within the community. i thank parliament again for its contribution.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr esko seppänen on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on the proposal for a council directive on the supervision and control of shipments of radioactive waste and spent fuel (com ((2005) 0673 - c6-0031/2006 - 2005/0272 (cns)) (a6-0174/2006).
member of the commission. mr president, as today’s debate has shown, there is broad support for the rapporteur’s report. i should like to thank mr seppänen again for his excellent report, which has the support of a strong majority in the committee on industry, research and energy. concerning the issue of the prohibition of any export of radioactive waste and spent fuel out of the community, i would recall article 13(1)(c) of the proposed directive, which further prohibits exports of radioactive waste and spent fuel to countries that do not possess the necessary administrative and technical capacity for safely managing the spent fuel or radioactive waste. the commission will issue strict criteria for deciding that. it is for member states to decide whether to authorise a shipment to a third country on a case-by-case basis, following strong guidance to be issued by the commission. that is the answer to the question that arose during the debate. i strongly believe that we need as much transparency as possible when we deal with energy issues. that also applies to nuclear energy.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12.30 p.m.
mr. president, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way you have handled this matter. in the debate on the finnish presidency, i would like to draw attention to an important issue in eu-russia relations. finland, which has traditionally had good relations with russia, should make progress on at least two issues. first, on the use by russia of energy supplies as a tool for political influence both on the member states of the union and on third countries. russia, which wants to have good relations with the european union, should stop such practices, and the european union should demand this at the next summit. second, russia is seeking membership of the world trade organization (wto) where the european union is a major player and at the same time blocking the entry of many goods into its market, breaking wto standards in this regard. the blockade of food exports from poland to the russian market, which has been in place for seven months, is a clear example of this. despite the fact that poland has removed all the reasons why these exports were stopped, the russian side does not tolerate the blockade. in this situation, it seems impossible that the representatives of the union in the wto negotiations would agree to russia's membership without finally resolving the problem of access to the russian market, including for goods originating in poland. i would like to express the hope that the finnish presidency will make efforts to resolve the problems identified above.
mr. chairman, please! i am glad that the finnish prime minister spoke today about making the eu institutions more efficient. this is an important issue at a time when the union is at a crossroads. in my view, the council's powers should not be reduced, but the powers of the european parliament, the body elected by the citizens, should be increased and the powers of the commission, the body over which the citizens have no influence, should be reduced. i am pleased that the finnish presidency is supporting the idea of greater transparency in the work of the european institutions. this transparency is vital. it is good that the presidency is positively assessing the recent enlargement of the union; i believe that the next six months will be a good atmosphere for a further, gradual, sensible enlargement of the union's structures. when the president of the council speaks of the need to work towards greater competitiveness in the union, i hope that it is not just empty words, that the council will translate this promise into concrete action, for example in the area of services, that there will be no restrictions in this area, as is the case in the present form of the unfortunate services directive.
mr. president, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way you have handled this matter. i welcome the objectives set by the finnish presidency for the next six months. moving from words to deeds on the constitution and continuing to commit to the enlargement of the european union is crucial at a time when the union is experiencing an identity crisis and a leadership crisis. for the same reason, it is particularly important to strengthen cooperation in the field of the common eastern policy and the common energy policy. the issue of diversification of energy sources and supply routes is of paramount importance for europe's energy security. the european union must establish a common and uniform position on oil and gas supplies. it cannot be assumed that the construction of one pipeline from the same supplier constitutes genuine diversification. investment in renewable energy and energy saving is necessary but not sufficient to meet the growing demand. europe must be politically and financially committed to projects to find new sources of energy and to pursue a common policy of solidarity with suppliers. i attach equal importance to finland's role in the development of the common eastern policy. the good relationship with russia should lead to a common policy for the union in relation to russia. i hope that cooperation with ukraine will improve and develop, because political support for kiev will help to consolidate the pro-european course of ukrainian politics. it will also be important to address the issue of belarus in the international forum and in talks with russia. mr. president, among many other things finland is famous for its finnish sauna. i hope that the finnish presidency will bring us, in the end, the same feeling of freshness and relaxation as one gets after spending an hour or two in a finnish sauna.
mr. chairman, please! the finnish presidency is not a transitional presidency, but a key presidency in terms of the most important strategy for the european union - the strategy for growth and jobs. this will decide the future of europe, but we have to start somewhere. in the revised lisbon strategy, we decided that we should start with research, innovation and technological progress. we won't do that, prime minister, without the timely launch of the 7th framework programme. the european council's common position is needed as soon as july so that parliament can begin work on the second reading in september. that's what i'm appealing to the prime minister for! the council, the commission and parliament must work together continuously to ensure that we are able to complete our work by november at the latest. but it is not just the 7th framework programme that is important, but the funding for research and innovation in national budgets. i fully support the prime minister's statement on this matter. our greatest european weakness is not being innovative enough. i think that's where the european institute of technology can help us. we already have a great european education, no need to duplicate it. we have good research, but we lack innovation, the latest technologies that determine growth and employment, that determine our strategy. the decision on the institute is an important task for the finnish presidency. the knowledge triangle: education, research and innovation is finland's greatest strength. so the decisions in these cases were made at the right time. we wish you success, prime minister.
mr. chairman, please! the current situation in israel is actually a threat of war. this is the most dangerous situation since the year 2000, and maybe even since 1967. without undertaking at this stage to analyse in detail the recent events, without entering into the competence of the prosecutor who is prosecuting, or the court that is deciding on the guilt of one of the parties, it must be stated that the destabilisation of the region represents a real threat to the order and peace of the whole world, and therefore requires international intervention. we can't just sit back and do nothing. if the escalation of violence continues, the spiral of conflict continues, events will occur that will not only affect the citizens of israel and palestine. there are extremists on both sides. let's do everything we can to give a chance to the moderate forces in both countries, those who choose the most difficult dialogue over the easy violence.
mr. chairman, please! shouting has never solved a conflict. how is this display of terror and violence different from others? well, the violence and crime committed by the kidnappers and murderers of the israeli boy, as well as the numerous victims of the attacks, have not been met with any opposition from the democratically elected authorities of the palestinian authority. on the contrary, hamas has sided with those who sow violence and terror. it happened right after the inauguration of the new government in israel, and every action has a reaction. the crime triggered military action by the israeli authorities. the scripts today are written not by the israeli prime minister and the president of the pa who tried to maintain the dialogue but by the president of iran, hamas extremists led from damascus and terrorists of all stripes. i call on the council and the commission to increase pressure on the parties to the conflict, and in particular on the autonomia government. i would remind you that in order to resume the peace process, this government, authorised by hamas, should recognize the state of israel, renounce violence and respect the agreements signed so far, which has not happened.
mr. chairman, please! i think we've said all we can about conflict and what it is. i think the situation is much worse today than it was a year ago, because we don't know who to help and how to help... on one side, we have the physical wall, and then we have the force wall (military, passport control) that has led to the destruction of power plants and bridges. and then there's a new wall, a political wall, and then there's an elected hamas government with all the political consequences. there are still people, ordinary citizens, and we don't know how to help them. the very simple principle is that hunger and frustration lead to aggression, and aggression is nothing but good fodder for terrorism, and maybe even potential war. the question must be asked if the coexistence of two nations in one state is not possible, then is there only a potential solution: the creation of two states? i have a question for the commissioner and for the members of the commission and the council: is the european union doing enough, are we active and effective enough as mediators, as helpers and diplomats? does the commissioner have any ideas for this particular situation?
mr president, for me as a newcomer from one of the new member states, it was feasible to jump into the chair of the committee on budgets because i had an eminent predecessor. chairing the committee after mr wynn is like flying on autopilot. for me he is, and will remain, a great master of european finance. all the best to you, terry. (loud applause)
the next item is the interim report drawn up by mr giovanni claudio fava on behalf of the temporary committee on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners (a6-0213/2006).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would ask that the tone of this report be softened. too often, it uses the language of certainty and fact where there is room for suspicion and doubt. according to an earlier report by the council of europe, there were 10 cases of executions involving 17 people. not all of the incidents described are in direct violation of international law. for example, arar was issued under an immigration court ruling and is difficult to classify as an extraordinary release. until we know the exact scale of the phenomenon, there is nothing to justify the claim made in the article 6 report that we are dealing with a repeated, unacceptable and serious violation of fundamental rights. the u.s. government interprets the convention against torture differently, and it has a right to do so. this has not been challenged by the committee on the convention. this interpretation is based on a long-standing practice, a decision of the senate and a ruling of the supreme court. i would like to see the report put this matter in its broader context, to avoid the caricature of 'bad america' and 'good eu'. the key role of counter-terrorism in global security and the positive effects of european and us intelligence cooperation should be emphasised. europe and america are moving in a legal vacuum in the face of terrorism. europe wants to treat them like criminals who need to be given lawyers and all due process rights. american practice is closer to the tradition of the law of war, which i think is more appropriate, but it leads to a legal rollercoaster. if we want to avoid such disputes and conflicts between europe and america, we must enrich international law with new regulations. the report without the amendments proposed by mr gawroński and myself does not deserve to be supported in tomorrow's vote.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european parliament's four-month-old ad hoc committee on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners has failed to fulfil its mandate. in her work so far, she has not been able to obtain a single piece of information, and i emphasize this: not a single piece of information that was previously unknown. as a result, the committee report presented today is merely a reproduction of unverified media reports. there is no indication that the extension of the mandate of the committee will lead to the establishment of specific facts. she has no instruments for this kind of activity. so why spend taxpayers' money to prolong its existence? why support a powerless committee? there's no rational basis for that. any extension of the mandate of the committee will be dictated by political and propaganda considerations. the commission's activities are already being used by socialists and liberals for their own purposes. they use every pretext to attack the united states and the european countries that work with them. in this way, they are seriously undermining the only common front that has been established in the fight against such a formidable phenomenon as terrorism. actually, we should not be surprised. historically, since the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries, socialists themselves have been moving towards acts that today would be described as terrorist. the sympathy for this method of political action is proving to be extremely persistent even in this house. it is no coincidence that the dividing line in this case is not based on substantive or national considerations, but ideological ones. it's basically a division between socialists and conservatives. we will show great responsibility towards the societies of our countries by deciding to end the work of the temporary committee, and i call for this.
mr. chairman, please! september 11th marks five years since the terrorist attacks on america. the right to fight terrorism is accompanied by a reflection on the methods of this fight, the state of democracy, the rule of law, the state of civil liberties in situations of special powers for special services and general surveillance. on both sides of the atlantic, a new kind of community is emerging - a community of lawyers, journalists, politicians from across the political spectrum, humanitarian activists, citizens who do not accept the violation of human rights, political and civil liberties by some european governments and the united states government in recent years. last week, the us supreme court ruled that the special military tribunals set up outside of congress by president bush's executive order in november 2001 were illegal, contrary to the geneva conventions and the us military justice system. the supreme court's decision is proof that we are not condemned to make a tragic choice between our safety and our freedom. the temporary committee set up by the european parliament on 18 january completed the first stage of its work. the periodic report presented concludes that illegal practices affecting european citizens and residents have occurred on european territory. i want to emphasize that the committee's report is in no way anti-american or ideological, nor is it directed against any country or government. the committee's report was based mainly on some 50 hours of interviews with lawyers, journalists, representatives of ngos, alleged victims of extradition, representatives of member state authorities and representatives of the european institutions. i would also like to stress that the commission's periodic report does not mention the word 'poland' even once, unlike the report by dick marty presented to the council of europe in june this year. our report, on the other hand, states that we need to ascertain whether there is evidence that secret prisons are operating in some european countries, as journalists and credible ngos have alleged in their investigations. particularly worrying is the reluctance of the warsaw government to cooperate seriously with the european institutions, as shown in senator marti's report. the work of the temporary committee should continue for the remainder of the 12-month mandate and the committee should make official visits to certain countries, including poland.
mr. chairman, please! after 9/11, the world will never be the same. on this day, islamic terrorists launched a global war on western civilization, bringing us fear and death. we cannot in this parliament assess today's fight against terrorism in isolation from those events. it is the consequence of them, and human rights in relation to terrorists cannot affect the effective protection of our families and communities. let's remember that terrorists don't recognize any laws, treaties or conventions. i've been watching with concern the rise of the so-called cia commission. unfortunately, her appointment was purely political. it was about stigmatizing the countries that have taken the real fight against terrorism. i am a member of this committee and i see its work as a european witch hunt, where this time the role of witches is played by the allies of the us in europe, which is an expression of the complexes and the americanophobia of several countries of the so-called "old union". based on unconfirmed information from amnesty international, as well as press reports, a battle was fought. by pointing out countries that allegedly violate human rights, we expose them to the danger of retaliatory attacks and terrorist reprisals. the committee's work has revealed nothing new, nor has it proven anything. in no civilized country is a verdict passed without proof of guilt, and that's what the committee allows. our report is based on allegations and evidence, making judgments and even condemnations, demanding proof of innocence. in a normal system, you prove guilt, not innocence. the request to extend the committee's work for another six months is a waste of taxpayers' money. let's put aside the european prejudice against america and join the real fight against terrorism.
mr. chairman, please! the report by mrs favy is like a dried lemon, which, when squeezed, does not make much juice; but it is still a better, more responsible, more restrained report than the one presented by the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. that report is ideologically intrusive, ours is more political; senator marti's report was based not on facts, but on evidence, but in accusations it went very far, too far. we are right to say that the fight against terrorism is one of the priorities of the international community. we also believe, and rightly so, that the ends do not justify the means, that human rights cannot be violated merely to win against terrorism, but that the hard facts must be respected first and foremost. you can't build an indictment of entire countries based on guesswork, suspicion, clues and hunches. this report is part of a wider debate on eu-us relations, the limits of the just fight against terrorism and transatlantic cooperation. this report cannot be taken out of its political context. we can't pretend that in defending human rights, we should never treat them as an ideological instrument of anti-americanism. i am in favour of the committee's fulfilling its mandate within the previously envisaged 12 months. if there is such a will, the commission will visit poland this autumn and will be warmly welcomed, because poland and the poles have nothing to hide.
panie przewodniczący! to sprawozdanie zaskakuje. uderza w nim mianowicie przepaść między zgromadzonym w nim materiałem dowodowym z jednej strony, a ocenami formułowanymi przez komisję z drugiej. komisja formułuje w sprawozdaniu bardzo poważne zarzuty, jak na przykład ten, że w europie doszło do „wielokrotnego i niedopuszczalnego naruszenia praw człowieka”. z drugiej strony jest w stanie potwierdzić tylko cztery przypadki, dokładnie cztery przypadki, procedury określanej jako "nielegalne przekazywanie podejrzanych o terroryzm". co więcej, komisja posługuje się zróżnicowanym językiem, z jednej strony asekuracyjnie mówi o faktach, jak na przykład w ust. 12: „all the work of the temporary committees so far seems to indicate that european airspace and airports have been used by cia front companies”. z drugiej, kategorycznie formułuje oceny, jak w cytowanym ust. 6., kiedy mowa jest o wielokrotnym naruszeniu podstawowych praw człowieka. tym czasem zgromadzony materiał dowodowy nie upoważnia komisji do takich sformułowań. nie udowodniono bowiem nigdzie stosowania tortur wobec podejrzanych, nie udowodniono także w żadnym kraju istnienia ośrodków odosobnienia, w których byliby przetrzymywani podejrzani (mam na myśli państwa unii europejskiej), i można wobec tego zadać pytanie, czy cztery przypadki przekazywania podejrzanych o terroryzm oraz kilkaset lotów samolotów cia – nota bene tych lotów, o których wiedzieliśmy juz na początku prac komisji – upoważnia komisję do sformułowania tak radykalnych wniosków? mam wrażenie, że komisja buduje wirtualny obraz rzeczywistości i zamiast przybliżyć obywatelom unii obraz rzeczywisty z jakichś powodów, zapewne politycznych, przedstawia ten wirtualny obraz jako rzeczywisty, wprowadzając obywateli w błąd. to jest niedobra praktyka, naraża ona bowiem na szwank autorytet parlamentu europejskiego i jeśli będzie się tak dalej działo w kolejnej fazie prac komisji, to prestiż parlamentu europejskiego może stać się podobny do prestiżu zgromadzenia parlamentarnego rady europy. (oklaski)
mr. chairman, please! how many false prophets of human and civil rights have now multiplied! how many of them - and this is particularly disgusting - come from those political formations that were once untroubled by communism, that were so mild and tolerant of the regimes that occupied half of our continent for many, many years. these same people today are trying to create the impression that the biggest problem of democracy, the biggest problem of human and civil rights is not a dramatic event involving millions of people, for example in china, but the most important thing is some unregistered flights of american planes in europe. it's something that should not be tolerated and should not be extended. that is why i strongly support that this committee, which according to some of its members is such a mixture of anti-american phobias with the desire to go out politically, ends its life, and that these people really take care of where human and civil rights are violated and such countries are unfortunately still very many in the world.
mr. chairman, please! much has been said about the importance of values, the core of which is human rights. respect for these values is the responsibility of all the institutions, states and citizens of the european union. one of these values, which is rooted in the european legal tradition, is the old principle that any doubt is to be read in the defendant's favour. if we want this principle to be applied to people accused of terrorism, we cannot set a bad example ourselves. in my opinion, mr. favy's report was constructed unilaterally, based largely on doubt, conjecture and circumstantial evidence. this report confirmed only two previously known facts, two cases: italian and swedish, and these are the subject of an investigation by the relevant internal authorities of these countries. in this situation, should not our committee concentrate on finding legal solutions that should block possible wrongdoing of this kind in the future? should we not do more to promote good legislation, the use of european airspace, to influence member states to implement a legislative package for a common response to terrorism and to monitor member states whose legislation does not include terrorism as a criminal offence? only by doing so will we be able to provide legal protection to all those we suspect or will suspect of terrorism. let us ensure that the laws and procedures governing the fight against terrorism, also in this area, which by its very nature should be covered by secrecy, also impose sanctions and punish violations of human rights and human dignity. secret can't mean illegal. however, it is up to the member states to prosecute the perpetrators themselves. our committee has neither the competence nor the authority to do so. it is another matter how the governments of the member states deal with the public's complaints and how they cooperate with our commission. for the member states, it is a test, a test which gives credibility to the quality of the action of their services in respect of international treaties; if we do not carry it out, we will always be surrounded by the demons of suspicion and often unfounded accusations.
president of the council. mr president, it is in the council's interest in general to support a more active involvement of civil society, including in the integration of immigrants, in order to promote transparency in the eu administration vis-à-vis citizens. it is, of course, up to the member states to decide how to create these structures for the voice of the citizen at local level, but cooperation at european union level is also very important. the finnish presidency will open up the council's work considerably, with the opening up of the legislative procedure for codecision. the commission will also open the procedure for other legislative proposals. it is hoped that this will be one of the channels for activating citizens, both to learn about the basis of decision-making and to influence them also between elections.
minister! i visited the camps in libya where tens of thousands of refugees are being pulled from black africa to come to europe and to sail to europe. we have the frontex external border protection agency, headed by the finns. to what extent do you intend to use this agency to stop the flow of illegal immigrants into europe?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr gaubert and mr lambridinis, for their work on the development of the principles of a common, modern immigration policy for the european union. such joint actions should help not only to address the problems of the latest waves of immigration, but also to help integrate the children of immigrants who have already been born in europe. to turn words into action, not only good law and mutual exchange of information is needed, but above all funds. it is therefore good that, in addition to the refugee fund and the fund for the protection of the external borders, a return and integration fund for immigrants has been established. as rapporteur for these funds, i would like to emphasise that we have succeeded in overcoming the doubts about the legal basis of the integration fund and in formulating the decision establishing the fund in such a way as to achieve unanimity on its creation. this is a success for parliament. there is only a slight resistance from a few countries, which notably have considerable problems in integrating immigrants, which makes their position all the more incomprehensible. it is therefore good that mr lambridinis has drawn up a resolution on the integration of immigrants. however, this project is also controversial. first of all, it's a matter of political rights for immigrants. the granting of political rights, including the right to vote in local elections, is a decision which, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, is a matter for the member states and in most of them is conditional on the possession of the nationality of the country concerned. as a parliament we have the right to make policy recommendations, but we must remember that we cannot demand that such rules be introduced into the legal systems of the member states. another important point is that we cannot allow the legal position of citizens of the new member states in terms of access to labour, services, education and housing markets in the so-called 'old 15' countries to be worse than that of legal immigrants from third countries. let us also remember those who joined the european union in may 2004.
mr. chairman, please! immigrant populations are becoming increasingly integrated into european societies. it's a great european asset. immigrants contribute to the economic, social and cultural wealth of the european union. i am saying this in the european parliament, in the middle of the world cup, a few minutes after the semi-final between france and portugal. look at the national teams of the european union, the national teams, which are multi-ethnic teams that show the diversity, the strength and the pride of the union today. the success of the integration of immigrants in the european union will determine to a large extent the position of europe on the global market, the success of the european project. i would like to draw attention to the following points: at the political level of integration, the real integration of the immigrant population in europe can be achieved on the basis of a new legal and political identity, on the basis of a european constitution which will guarantee the creation of a european identity in all social groups in europe, above and beyond national identity. in addition, the legal level of integration and the special european funds will guarantee the dignified integration of all social groups in the european union. this requires courage and vision from european leaders and european citizens.
mr. chairman, please! europe has long needed a common immigration policy based on - as in the united states - control rather than integration assistance. i think that the european union countries have been too patient and too helpful in terms of integration, especially for muslim immigration, but without much result. on the contrary, they took advantage of the opportunity and integrated better with immigrants from asia, for example. it's time to start demanding more from immigrants. they must want and strive for their own integration, and then it will be more effective, rather than just abusing our aid systems and creating a feeling of insecurity in our countries. the new criterion for legal immigration should also be the needs of the host country, as recently proposed by france.
mr. chairman, please! the ongoing debate on the integration of immigrants in the european union is a consequence of the current immigration policy. to open up to a mass influx of people from another civilization, who overwhelmingly assume that they will not integrate with the people and the countries they come to, is madness. this could lead to a future long-term destabilisation of the continent's social situation, and even - in some circumstances - to tragedy. multicultural and multi-racial societies are multi-conflict societies. any person who comes to this country must accept that he is a guest. if he wants to settle permanently, he must adopt the culture and traditions of the country he is settling in, and of course he can cultivate his own culture and customs. the mistake of the current policy is that it has restricted for years the immigration of people from eastern europe, who are culturally the same as the rest of europe. we in poland are saddened that so many young people are leaving the country, but it was western europe after world war ii that left this part of europe to the communists. for decades, we have not had the opportunity to develop a normal economy.
member of the commission. mr president, it is always a little embarrassing to say that what we have just heard corresponds to our own convictions, but it is obvious that i share your views on the main points of what has been said. however, in order to be completely objective, i will make a number of remarks. i am particularly concerned about the fact that we have the means to solve this crucial problem if we want to. mrs scheele said it was a matter of political will. i can only fight with speeches and arguments. i cannot of course force member states and international donors to be more generous. i was very shocked and very surprised in london at the lack of commitment. if i remember correctly, the target was set at 7 billion dollars and we have barely reached 3.7 billion, which is far below the initial target. so we'll have to keep trying. secondly, i naturally agree with mr bowis that there should be more research in this area. it is clear that research will ultimately save us a great deal of time if we are to eradicate this most sordid disease once and for all. as regards the fixing of a percentage, mrs van lancker, although i agree with what you have said, i would like to stress that we do not set such a percentage ourselves: it is set by the partner countries. the principle of ownership exists and we often have to plead with our partners to agree to dedicate a part of the development aid we give to a sector such as the one we are discussing tonight. i think it's important to remember that. in short, i am personally prepared to agree with you when you talk about 6%, but that is not entirely up to us. as regards the share of development aid devoted to the millennium development goals, i feel very sincerely that in the new programming we are working on, for which we will need your input, your creativity and your ideas, we will go beyond a 50% share devoted to the millennium development goals. i have this conviction -- which has become an obsession -- which i find, oddly enough, very difficult to share, that in many developing countries, the problem is a state deficit, a deficit in the ability of states to deliver social or democratic services, such as access to education for girls, access to health, access to justice, access to administration. all this is very incomplete and sometimes does not even exist at all. so when we put resources at the disposal of the states concerned to build up their broad-based service capacity, we can imagine that this money will benefit the millennium goals. as regards your remark about our continuing contribution to the global fund, we intend to continue that contribution. i should also like to say that many of the member states of the european union in london have set an example and made real efforts with regard to the amounts. it was the non-european partners who were rather cool on the subject. i agree with you that more support should be provided for countries which are making particular efforts, even though aids unfortunately knows no borders. so we have to help according to the performance of the countries. that's what we do. as you know, the tenth european development fund provides for a special tranche, precisely with the aim of providing relatively substantial additional resources compared with the initial allocation, depending on governance, performance and also, for example, on the investment made by the partner countries in the fight against aids. so, mrs hall, as regards local ngos who feel that they are not being treated well by the commission, if you have any specific ngos with specific projects in mind, i would like to know about them. i would like to say that the commission's policy has been to avoid scattering funds among all sorts of projects which, taken individually and micro-locally, are undoubtedly important. we felt that it was even more important that the international community should have a genuinely coherent and common strategy, based on a methodology that is the same everywhere, in order to deal with the problem as a whole. the commission's policy has been to try to put the package on the global fund so that there is, i would say, a 'thinking head' capable of generating a global strategy. however, if a personal project is good, why not? but i still believe that if we were to scatter around among all sorts of projects, we wouldn't be as effective. that is the commission's choice, but i am open to discussion, i am not restricted. however, while some people believe that small projects should be multiplied, even if they are good ones, i remain sceptical about the effectiveness of this strategy in the long term. i personally believe that, in the face of major problems such as those discussed here tonight, a much more systematic approach should be adopted. but when resources are spread over a multitude of small projects, the overall systematic approach is lost sight of and efficiency is lost. that's kind of what i'm afraid of. but if you know of any ngos that have filed, please give them to me, show them to me, because i don't want to appear arbitrary either. i am not the one who decides, the administration is the one who submits its conclusions to me and unfortunately i do not have the opportunity to study each case individually. so if some people feel that we have been unfair in the handling of the cases, i am willing to look into the matter. the last point, as you know, is that in the european consensus i am in favour of joint programming by the european donors, the member states and the commission. if we could really do this exercise of joint programming, that is, agreeing together on common goals and seeing how to divide the work among us, i think we would be much more effective, especially in the fight against this terrible disease that is aids. the approach would be more coherent and perhaps we could have a real european strategy, which is not the case today, it must be admitted. today we are donors, we put money into the global fund, we fund this fund, but we have no strategy of our own to fight aids, except, as i said earlier, to attack on several fronts: gender inequality, girls' education, care, access to health, all the problems that a state insures or does not insure. apart from that, we have no really specific strategy to fight aids. what we do is finance outside operators, we have to admit. so if we could have a common programming, we could perhaps implement a more tailored strategy that would touch more directly on the specificities, even local, of this problem.
the next item is the report by marie-arlette carlotti, drawn up on behalf of the committee on development and migration (2005/2244 (ini)) (a6-0210/2006).
mr. chairman, please! in thanking mrs. carlotti for her hard work, i would like to draw your attention to three points. globalization also means that people are breaking down borders in search of a normal way of life. however, differences in economic levels and political models are a barrier to the free movement of people. if we cannot agree on the free movement of goods in the wto, it turns out that it is even more difficult to agree on the free movement of people, and these are two qualitatively different worlds. despite the lack of such consent, people migrate, mainly to richer countries. the union as a destination will increasingly be obliged to find solutions to this problem - we have the problem of malta. another issue is the phenomenon of selective immigration, which is mostly enjoyed by rich countries. it is a question of brain drain, it is immoral towards poor countries and we need good policies, such as the reintegration projects which i had the pleasure of discussing with commissioner luis michel, so that the flight of educated people does not make the situation worse in, for example, africa, but helps those countries to develop. it should also be said that if there are already immigrants, then scotland, a country within the union, is a destination for immigration, as it is for poles or slovaks, and it can become even more so for citizens of togo or jamaica; an educational, social and legal programme must be developed for them so that immigrants can integrate as quickly as possible into the country of residence. they've adapted. the integration time is both a psychological and an economic factor, and the shorter and more meaningful the time, the better for both parties: for the immigrants and for the hosts. and by doing this, we're going to avoid brain wasting. finally, i would like to add that the problem of immigration, mainly economic, is not just a matter for france, sweden or malta, but a serious problem for the 25 member states of the union.
mr. chairman, please! the fact that the european parliament is dealing with development issues in conjunction with migration is a testament to our openness to the problems of developing countries. we want migration to be a part of development. unfortunately, at the moment, it's just a wish, and in order for it to become a reality, there are a few conditions that must be met. i will mention two: firstly, to achieve a circular migration so as to avoid brain drain as much as possible; and secondly, to achieve the ratification of the international convention on the rights of migrants by all member states. finally, the issue of migration and development is very much a matter of relations between the european union and the acp states. that is why the european union-acp parliamentary assembly, of which i am a member, must take this matter seriously. in closing, i would like to thank and congratulate my colleague carlotti.
mr. chairman, please! i thank the rapporteur for her work on this report, but also for the clear statements it makes, including the acknowledgement that the european union has not yet found a common, coherent solution to immigration. we're talking about a worthy challenge, and a huge one: 3% of the world's population, that's 175 million people, are migrants, and 40% of them live in developing countries. the european union is sometimes criticised for spending too little on integrating immigrants and refugees over the last 7 years, it has spent €15 million, which is half a euro per immigrant. however, it seems that the question of the good use of these funds is no less a problem. we have many worrying signs in this regard, we hear about waste and corruption in their allocation. the aid to immigrants is moral as well as political, and the aim is to develop a new, transparent union policy in this area. the fact is that over the last 10 years the union's migration policy has been much more restrictive than before, and let us not be fooled into thinking that in the coming years this restrictive policy will be a lesser policy. on the contrary.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like straightaway to thank mr schmidt for this report and for drawing attention to my increasingly conspicuous consumption habits, which, i am afraid, are becoming only too obvious as i grow into this job as europe’s trade commissioner. sincerely and warmly i would like to thank him for this report, which i think is very valuable and will be well received. fair trade is one of the key tools, in my view, to enhance sustainable development and to equip us better to fight poverty in the world, and as a concept it is developing fast. it is undoubtedly a very popular trade practice. it is gaining in currency and appeal with public opinion, and helps to raise public awareness about all the issues that are involved in sustainability. you are not just undertaking an act of consumption that is good in terms of the content of what you consume. it is also a stimulus to the brain. it makes you think and therefore it is even more valuable. consumers do take into account considerations about the conditions of production. people care, they do not just eat, and fair trade has pioneered this in a most attractive way. the commission actively supports fair trade. we took on commitments to fair trade in the cotonou agreement with the acp countries, as well as in our communication on policy coherence for development. many trade and development assistance projects support fair trade: development projects to the tune of over eur 4 million in 2003, and growing. these consist mainly of support for ngo activities, but also of direct aid to the harmonisation of standards at work. we also participate in fair trade events. one could argue that whilst fair trade helps salve the conscience of those who buy such products, others continue, nonetheless, to exploit the needy. i am not happy about that argument: fair trade is not a panacea for all the problems of poor producers, nor does it necessarily mean that because you are not buying and consuming fair trade products you are exploiting the poor. what is required to tackle poverty and to enhance development is a general and coherent policy framework. it is this that we need to develop, to conceptualise, and this report will help us to do so. fair trade is private and limited to the participating producers, while the un millennium development goals are for all. so fair trade is particular and specific, the millennium development goals are general and wide-ranging; but there is a clear interconnection between the two. the objective is different for an individual and for eu policy-making. an individual makes a personal choice. he or she is entitled to exercise that choice. you cannot automatically translate that into a more wide-ranging policy. the individual consumer looks at one packet of coffee, rightly. policy-makers, on the other hand, have to take into account the sector as a whole and our obligations to that sector as a whole. we need a complete and public solution – one that should not be confined, therefore, to fair trade only. as the report rightly points out, there are other non-fair trade operators that can achieve similar results to those obtained by fair traders, that have the same growth potential and that can influence consumer choice and the international trading schemes. we should fully use the potential of all credible initiatives to support sustainability. that should be our test. does it help, does it aid, does it take forward sustainability? if it does, that should govern our response and attitude to it. building on commitments taken previously, we want to explore with our partners the use of economic partnership agreements with the acp countries, as well as other trade agreements, for including specific incentives targeted at improving market access for fair trade products. that is where i believe we can leverage our interest and leverage our commitment most beneficially. it is very useful, therefore, that the report points to the danger of inappropriate national legislation in the field of fair trade. i am aware of some initiatives being taken that might harm the status that fair trade has already achieved. we need to be vigilant about these and to see, therefore, whether it is not better to take a more coherent and collective approach in order to leverage the greatest benefits for fair trade. conversely, too firm an adhesion to the particular approach embodied in fair trade would be at risk of being discriminatory against other systems, some of them acknowledged in your report, which have similar claims and that we can and should support. you are right about the need to protect consumers, the question is how. i believe the role of policy is to ensure that messages given to consumers are accurate and transparent, and i am glad that this is also stressed in the report. we already have protection against misleading claims, but we might consider going further and help engage the consumer actively in the ethics of production. i believe that there is scope for better information about claims schemes in general, and work is in progress on this. i will ask my services to look at how sustainability is enhanced by different certification and assurance schemes, including fair trade. we will look at all the suggestions made in this report and of course keep parliament informed of further developments. we need a dialogue with parliament on a continuing basis. i am glad, therefore, that this report provides the framework, both for this dialogue and for the way in which we can, should and will take our commitment in this area further forward. in conclusion i would like to thank the rapporteur again for the quality of this report.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to congratulate and thank mr schmidt for this report and for his interesting and interesting report on fair trade. fair trade can make a positive contribution to the development of poor countries by providing better livelihoods for producers and their families and better access to world markets. fair trade can also help by promoting sustainable development. i would like to draw your attention to a number of points in the report which are problematic because of the substantive scope of the report. firstly, i think that the text of the report sometimes confuses the idea of fair trade (capitalized) with fair trade in its general sense. the report will be the first ever european legislation to deal with the fair trade sector - the big-letter report on goods that bear the fair trade label and are sold under it. the report should address the labelling of goods so that ideas about fair trade are not distorted at the expense of consumers who want to buy fair trade products. the report is about fair trade, and i would like to stress that this report is not a fair trade report, which is the idea of making international trade fairer. it's obvious that fair trade (in lower case) is something else. it is an effort to make all trade fairer and this topic has been raised many times in other resolutions and reports of the european parliament. so in my opinion, to refer to the cotonou agreement in this context is wrong, because the cotonou agreement is about fair trade in lower case, not capital letters. i also find the price stabilisation questionable and the record on this subject does not help to assess the report in its entirety.
madam president! i fully support mr schmidt's report and the european parliament's draft resolution. quoting these documents briefly, i can say that fair trade is not just about fair prices and access to markets and raising social standards, eradicating poverty, technological assistance and capacity building, but also about paying attention to the socioeconomic situation of producers and their local communities. i would therefore like to draw attention, on behalf of the members of the european parliament's working group on the destruction of obsolete pesticides and the ngos working with us, to the problem of the tens of thousands of tonnes of obsolete pesticides that are being stored in african, post-soviet countries and in the member states and candidate countries of the european union. they are a serious threat to their development, limiting the production of healthy food and, consequently, their share of trade. please, let's help these countries destroy the sources of the threat.
rapporteur. – mr president, the npi regulation is of major importance. it provides an essential basis for the european union’s work and partnership with our neighbouring countries to promote and assist political and economic reforms. today’s vote follows a lengthy process of negotiations on many detailed and complex issues, which all sides approached in a constructive spirit. i am pleased to report that many significant amendments proposed by parliament have been accepted. as a result, the regulation is more complete and more comprehensive. the amendments i have now tabled jointly with the shadow rapporteurs of the ppe-de and pse groups reflect the common intention to secure a first-reading agreement. the normal legal-linguistic verification process should deal with any remaining textual variations on this basis. there are minor textual variations in article 3.1 and in certain amendments. these are considered purely linguistic or technical and do not involve any point of substance.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the sharia courts union authority has been established in southern somalia. since the beginning of july this year, radical currents have been gaining influence in the territory controlled by the union. the new head of the sharia courts council is sheikh hassan dahir aweys, a radical muslim cleric in his sixties. awejsa is suspected of working with al-qaeda. after 9/11, the united states blacklisted sheikh awazi as an international terrorist. sheikh aweys does not recognize the un-backed somali government, with which the first head of the sharia courts council, sharif sheikh ahmed, considered to be relatively moderate, made peace after taking power in mogadishu. islamist factions have announced their intention to take over the entire territory of somalia, and there is a danger that the sharia courts union will attack the north of the country, which has been considered a relatively peaceful region until now. there are provinces divided into autonomous regions: somaliland and puntland, with strategic ports on the coast. such action would mean somalia becoming another afghanistan ruled by the taliban. the tragic situation in the territory controlled by the sharia courts union has arisen in the field of human rights. last week, at a rally for sheikh awazi, swedish independent journalist martin adler was murdered. one of the first decrees of the islamic radicals in mogadishu was to order the closure of the cinemas and theaters where the world cup was being held. news agencies report that islamic militia units shot two people and wounded four during the germany-italy match. the shooters, the cinema owner and a young woman were killed in the aftermath of the shooting of the cinema where the match was being broadcast.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my deep concern at the continuing state of civil war in somalia. somalia has not had an effective national government for over 15 years. this situation poses a major threat to the peace and reconciliation process in that country as well as to the security and stability of the entire somali peninsula region. we must strongly condemn the recent fighting in mogadishu, the events in johor, but also in other parts of the country, which have resulted in the deaths of many somalis. at the same time, we must call for no action to escalate tensions, for dialogue to continue and for the involvement of the interim federal government and the parliament of the central government in somalia in a cooperative manner under an interim federal act. at the same time, we cannot forget to provide humanitarian aid to the somali people, to the displaced people and to the communities in need. in this regard, any efforts to respect international humanitarian law and to guarantee access for humanitarian aid agencies to communities in need of assistance, as well as to ensure the protection of humanitarian workers, should be supported.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the resolution which the european parliament is to adopt today is in fact a resolution in defence of freedom of expression - the freedom of expression which is the foundation of any democratic society. it is safe to say that the internet is the best media outlet for protecting this freedom, but governments in many countries are trying to influence the content that is being shared online. legislative initiatives in many countries aim to regulate the flow of this wild and dangerous river that the internet can seem, and thus unfortunately carry a serious threat of restricting freedom of speech. after all, a personal computer with a printer is a potential printing press on which to print leaflets, letters, and even entire books for informal circulation. a computer connected to the internet is nothing more than a radio tuned to radio free europe, and an interactive radio in which anyone can speak and comment. this is a serious threat to any totalitarian state or state that restricts access to information to some degree. on the internet, you can only censor individual pages, you can't censor the entire web, but there is this temptation and threat to do so; for example, the chinese government has created an internet police force that checks whether any of the tens of millions of chinese internet users are violating the rules of using the web, and for such a violation, there is a penalty of up to ten years in a labor camp. internet café owners employ staff to monitor the user's screen for any unauthorized content, which is filtered by passwords. if you see the words "tibet" or "dissident" or "china and human rights" on the page, that page gets blocked. but the internet, with its anarchist nature, is actually a salt of the earth for governments and bureaucrats, and there's no shortage of them in the cradles of democracy in europe and the united states. it's important to remember that the eternal race between freedom and censorship never ends, but it's also an endless struggle between good and evil. we must remember that the freedom that the internet gives us also carries the threat of the distribution of anti-democratic and anti-moral content.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. freedom of speech and expression are fundamental values enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights. no matter what form one takes to express one's views, one should be guaranteed freedom of expression. the internet has become a new and common means of communication in recent years. today, it is estimated that some 600 million people use the internet, and the number is growing every day. the internet is a medium for free expression, including for human rights defenders, democracy activists, political dissidents and independent journalists. as a free forum, it also contributes to the development of democracy, as was seen at the world summit in tunisia last november. but not everyone is drawn to this free medium. governments that used to control the press, radio and television now want to control the only independent medium that escapes their control, the internet. china, iran, north korea, syria, nepal, cuba, and belarus are all using increasingly sophisticated techniques to control and restrict free speech. and what's worse, companies like yahoo, google and microsoft are willing to censor at the behest of the government, as is currently the case in china, for example. this is an unacceptable situation. freedom of speech is a paramount value. we must act against any attempt to restrict it, including on the internet. a network management system should be established in which only those phenomena that are prohibited by law, such as the dissemination of child pornography or other forms of violence, are subject to restrictions. restricting free speech on the internet is putting a gag on those who tell the uncomfortable truth, and it's this value that we must fight for first.
it's easy and pleasant to condemn a dozen countries on several continents when it comes to internet censorship. but i'm afraid that beyond the relief, the effect of our actions will be symbolic. but it is better to choose concrete ones, and to do so with european countries and companies. take belarus, a neighbor of the european union a classic enemy of online freedom. if we trade it with the maldives or nepal, we're not actually helping either country. if the european, italian telecom italia is the network operator in cuba, then the censorship of freedom of speech by the communist regime is done there with the consent of this european company. if the france telecom subsidiary is launching broadband services with a tunisian operator, this is happening at the moment when the tunisian government has cut off access to all opposition websites in that country. these are concrete. let's not talk about what we can only influence morally, let's talk about what we can influence actually.
mr. chairman, please! science and technology have made man master of space, walked on the moon. he also created the marvelous means of communication that is the internet. but it must be constantly reminded that millions of people have been murdered, demoralized and their dignity trampled underfoot. therefore, while science and technology are undoubtedly a great good in themselves, they should, like all human activity, be subject to continuous reflective verification, limitations and ethical principles that allow us to distinguish between good and evil, which does not mean limiting our expression. the problems of technology today go far beyond technology and become moral problems. true freedom, freedom from evil, should be promoted, not the arbitrariness and willfulness that destroy and degrade man. the examples of the dangers of the internet are many, but the most disturbing and drastic are the child pornography websites and those containing pedophilic content, which testify to the dramatic and profound degeneration of man.
mr. chairman, please! the uen group requested that oral question-and-debate be held on the subject of slave labour camps in italy in which polish nationals were detained. this item has not been introduced and i would like to ask the president to bring it up at the next part-session. this is a very important case. we're dealing with open slavery and even killing people in these camps in the heart of europe. there are signs that this is a wider problem, affecting other eu countries as well. we pass hundreds of resolutions on human rights violations in different countries of the world, and here we have a drastic violation of human rights in the union itself. that's what we should be dealing with first. the european parliament should call on the authorities of the member states to take care of the plight of foreign workers. i would appeal to the president and to all my colleagues in the other political groups to do so.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to return for a moment to the case of seasonal workers in italy, where indeed many dozens of people are reported missing. there are likely to be fatalities. i would like to support the proposal of mr wojciechowski, but at the same time i would like to emphasise that the italian police are cooperating with the polish police - it is cooperation without reservations; governments are cooperating with each other. i would also like to join in the call to the european commission and the governments of the member states to see whether this is the only case, and if it is the only case, let it be the last. let us give more weight to the issue of wage labour, especially seasonal work, in our community. i would also like to ask for a favourable climate for the concept of public aid for the shipbuilding industry in poland, which was undergoing a very strong transformation. i would like to ask the commission for a favourable position.
madam president! the car has become a common item of use in the european union, which is not a luxury and should not be subject to additional registration tax in addition to vat. registration fees should be based only on the cost of those activities. the carbon tax should be included in the cost of fuel, thus favouring low-polluting cars. this will be an incentive to replace cars with more environmentally friendly and fuel-efficient vehicles. the increase in fuel prices in europe is also similar. the annual tax should not be too high and too variable, as it will discourage the purchase of used cars by poorer people and may cause pensioners to give up their cars, which they use to a limited extent because of their age. the council directive on taxes relating to passenger cars is a necessary document in the common market and should be adopted as soon as possible.
madam president! the commission proposal has two objectives: to improve the functioning of the internal market and to implement the community strategy for reducing co2 emissions from passenger cars. in order to be consistent with the union's environmental objectives and the kyoto protocol, co2 emissions should be significantly reduced to reach the community target of 120 grams of co2 per kilometre, and tax measures are a strong incentive for consumers. it should be stressed that the aim here is not to harmonise or to introduce new taxes. the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the tax exemption to include the taxation of motor vehicles. the taxation of motor vehicles is highly diversified and uncoordinated across member states. a tax system where the amount of the registration tax is linked to co2 emissions is the right direction. this provides the basis for a longer-term approach to approximate the rates of road registration tax and to guarantee fair competition on the european market as a whole. the registration tax should be gradually reduced, which would help to eliminate the disparities in the european union car market. it is also necessary to establish a coherent and transparent system for the refund of registration duty based on clearly defined criteria. it is also important to ensure that the abolition of the registration tax is implemented in accordance with the principle of budgetary neutrality.
mr. chairman, please! a word of appreciation for taking up the subject. however, the emissions of cars are a function of the amount of fuel they burn, or mileage, and the quality of the gasoline, and in general a function of time. the proposed tax solution goes in two directions: abolishing the currently mandatory so-called registration fees and replacing them with a new tax paid upon purchase of the vehicle or annually. so the question is, what do the authors want? because the new tax is by definition unfair. it will be the same for the consumer who travels many kilometres and pollutes the air a lot, as well as for the one who does not drive much, as they say in poland, uses the car to go to church on sundays. moreover, the law imposes an obligation to pay the tax in advance, whereas the damage, or pollution, is caused in the distant future. moreover, the costs of the charges can and will be borne primarily by the poorest consumers, and will also worsen the conditions for the purchase of used cars. if so, then one can doubt whether the law is not written to order, with the interest of car companies in mind, who are looking for solutions that are beneficial to them in the face of stagnating demand. the more so because the new tax will pass through the hands of the corporations themselves, which will increase their revenues and increase their financial income. the authors also do not indicate the amount of the tax and there is a danger or concern as to the amount of revenue to the budgets of the member states. the programme we can support is as follows: the emission standards for new cars must be systematically tightened, the fuel quality standards must be tightened, taxes and charges on car purchases must be abolished. consideration should be given to introducing an environmental tax on fuel prices and to allocating the revenue thus obtained to research into new technologies and cleaner fuels. only such solutions will be beneficial in the long term for consumers, producers, environmentalists and the whole economy.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. europe is increasingly affected by natural disasters. once again, we have catastrophic forest fires in the south. much of europe experienced the hottest days on record, which resulted in a great drought. in poland, in some regions, cereal harvests have been reduced by tens of percent, and hundreds of thousands of farming families have been left in a tragic situation. then came heavy rains and local flooding that hampered harvesting and increased losses. state aid is low and most farmers cannot afford the costly insurance of their own plantations. and insurance does not solve the problem of natural disasters becoming a kind of norm rather than an exception. farmers in poland and other countries are asking for help from the european union, and this help is now more symbolic than real. it is extremely urgent to create a european system of aid for countries and people affected by natural disasters. much more funds than have been available so far will be needed. the people whose homes are destroyed by catastrophic fires, whose fields and crops are devastated by droughts and floods, must count on the european union's solidarity. one of the reasons the european union was created is so that its societies, its citizens, could help each other in need. the union must act in solidarity with the victims of natural disasters such as droughts, floods and forest fires. we expect the european commission to make real proposals both for a system of disaster prevention and for a system of aid to the countries and people affected by these disasters.
mr. chairman, please! we talked about this a couple of months ago, i remember. during this debate, important arguments were made, while during the holidays in my country, poland - as my honourable predecessor also said - there was a great drought disaster, and then a flood disaster, also in my constituency in lower silesia. so i'm talking about a problem that affects my country, and it affects practically every year. it is clear that the disaster of drought and fire is primarily a southern european problem, and the disaster of flooding is a northern european problem. it is equally clear that we must - as my predecessors have said here - make the solidarity fund more flexible and reduce the bureaucracy in the allocation of funds to the people and regions affected, and increase the funds allocated to help those regions, because for many citizens in our countries the question of the european union is the question of the european union's real assistance in the event of such disasters.
mr. chairman, please! as climate change continues, we are seeing more and more weather anomalies, causing serious damage to nature, agriculture and the wider human environment. recent years have been marked by a number of natural disasters, including droughts, floods, hurricanes, hailstorms, and even snowstorms. we all see and appreciate the efforts of members and the whole of the european parliament to develop a system of assistance to the victims. we regret, however, that the european commission has been too lax in this matter. it is often forgotten that the economic situation of the inhabitants of a region is affected not only by natural disasters but also by the state of the economy and by regional development aid schemes. in the case of poland, which has been hit by almost all natural disasters this year, we have development delays, much lower subsidies from the european union to agriculture, much lower production quotas and reference harvests. to these woes must be added the russian embargo on polish plant and animal products, dumping on the fruit and vegetable market and the lack of adequate protective measures for polish producers. to add insult to injury, lublin, the poorest region in poland and the european union, has recently been hit by drought, hurricane, hail and floods, which have caused serious damage to commercial and residential buildings. whole orchards were destroyed and damaged, and the already poor crops were almost completely destroyed by hail. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
mr. chairman, please! in the last dozen years, there has been virtually no year that has not been plagued by drought and often resulting large-scale fires, or, for that matter, by heavy and prolonged rainfall that has caused equally heavy flooding. all of these events are increasing in scale and causing enormous damage, especially to agriculture. this was the case in spain and portugal in 2005 and in bulgaria, romania, poland and greece this year. in the last two years, the european parliament has adopted three resolutions on the drought in portugal and spain and the effects of natural disasters on agriculture. unfortunately, despite numerous debates in the european parliament and resolutions adopted, there is no clear positive impact of the european institutions' involvement in this matter. moreover, the european commission suggests that the financing of the effects of natural disasters should be primarily the responsibility of the member states. true, but the scale of the damage is often beyond the financial capacity of individual countries. it is also suggested that such events should be covered by general insurance. insurance companies should finance the losses incurred. however, it is important to remember that natural disasters are becoming more common and so large that insurance companies are withdrawing from such policies. it is therefore necessary to develop a compensation system at european union level which could be applied very quickly after the damage has occurred. the european union should stand together in the face of ... (the president read out the minutes)
mr. chairman, please! in the congo, during this war, far more people died than in the more famous conflict in iraq. these losses amount, according to various estimates, to between 50,000 and 200,000 killed. yet, in all, nearly four million people have died in internal conflicts during the past decade, according to the united nations. that's a sad world record. the congo is very important to the world economy, economically speaking. there's no oil there, like in the middle east, but there's a raw material that's essential for making cell phones: coltan. the resolution of the congo conflict is close, and it is not coming from a single superpower that wants to be the world's policeman, but from the often-international military forces and the united nations. it involved the largest peacekeeping force in the history of the united nations, 17,500 young people. the congolese election cost the international community $500 million -- that's a small price to pay for the iraq war, which cost $177 million for one day. i think the european parliament's planned mission will be the next step in bringing order to this country, which finally deserves peace. in conclusion, i would like to say that i do not agree with the proposal by my predecessor, mr pfluger, to dismiss commissioner michel. it's much more fun with commissioner michel in this house.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to start by referring to the division of the daphne document into two separate programmes, which is justified if the reason is to look at the problem of drug addiction, violence and prevention in a genuine way, and not to look at the problem in an egocentric way and not to look at the real causes of these pathologies. violence is a huge problem, and as with other disorders, the most effective response should be to eliminate the underlying causes and risk factors, which include neurobiological and personality traits, such as egocentrism, hostility, impulsivity, irritability, anhedonia, low intelligence, low brain sensitivity to stimuli, and lack of respect for values, antisocial behavior. it is important to realize that the present-day epidemic of aggression, mental illness, retardation, and addiction is not simply the result of a hedonistic lifestyle but is the result of a materialistic worldview that underestimates the role of spiritual development. the vast amount of knowledge that has been accumulated so far is poorly correlated with the primary environmental causes of healthy personality development, which include a healthy and loving, preferably full and large family, where the expected and loving children learn to live together and for others.
today, we are once again talking about the fight against violence. it would seem that there is no need to speak of it again. nothing could be more wrong. each year, thousands of women and children are trafficked across the european union for sexual exploitation. there's a lot of talk about prevention and victim support. where are the services that are supposed to be fighting this phenomenon? of course, there are exhibitions, which, apart from the media hype, do not bring much. what about the fact that in a large country of the european union on the mediterranean, there are labour camps where, according to press estimates, some 20,000 people from other eu countries are or have been working? they worked 15-hour shifts. the barracks where they lived were surrounded by barbed wire and were guarded by guards armed with firearms. in these camps, people were murdered for not wanting to work. rape was common, and in front of the spouses. despite the intervention of diplomatic services and the pleas of the refugees, the police intervened after a few months. after all, the labor of these slaves was used to bring the union citizens into the limelight. didn't the local government know about this? thousands of people were affected. and this happened a few weeks ago. so, we're here to debate important problems that should have been solved a long time ago. there is an international scandal because of the lack of consent for some controversial demonstration, as the head of the socialists does, and you close your eyes to the creation of a new form the president took the floor)
in writing. any violence, whether physical, psychological or sexual, constitutes a serious violation of the human right to life, security, liberty and dignity. the use of force against vulnerable people, such as children, young people and women, also poses a serious threat to their physical and mental health. the consequences of such actions are also very serious for the psychological and social development of families and communities. unfortunately, violence is still a daily reality in every member state of the european union. the collective actions and actions taken so far to speak out and prevent this often shameful or marginalized problem are timid first steps in the fight against violence. another programme, daphne iii, with a budget of €115 million, aims to prevent and combat violence in all its forms, in the private and public spheres. it aims to protect children, young people and women from violence by taking preventive measures and providing support and protection to any victims. for daphne to be effective, it must be visible to the public. in addition to actions such as supporting and assisting ngos, institutions, organisations and associations, it is necessary to carry out effective campaigns to raise public awareness of the problem of violence and in particular of trafficking in women and children for sexual exploitation. however, aid should not be understood as just ad hoc measures, but also, for example, to facilitate access to the labour market for victims of violence and thus to facilitate their smooth integration into society. in this light, the initiative to establish a european year against violence against women deserves strong support.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the honour to present to you, on behalf of the presidency of the council, the draft general budget of the european communities for the financial year 2007, which was adopted by the council on 17 july 2006. this is the first budgetary procedure under the new financial framework. the transition to the new financial period should be smooth, while ensuring continuity and consistency. i believe that the budgetary authorities, the european parliament and the council, will continue to cooperate well in this respect. i am convinced that the two institutions share the same objective, namely to agree on the 2007 budget by the end of the year. before i go into more detail on the draft budget adopted by the council, i would like to recall the main principles which have guided the council's decision-making. first of all, i would like to stress that the council fully complied with the new interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. the council thus reaffirmed its attachment to the principle of the general budgetary discipline at the eu level, in accordance with the national practice. particular attention was paid to respecting the annual ceilings for expenditure laid down in the new financial framework and to leaving sufficient room for manoeuvre in the ceilings for the various headings in the event of unforeseen circumstances. the assessment of precisely defined and real expenditure needs has been a central principle in our budgetary approach. the fact that all the priorities of the european union must be financed in sufficient quantities and in due time does not mean that the appropriations should be considered excessive. in order to ensure sound and disciplined financial management, the council has analysed in detail the needs of all the policy areas. after taking account of the previous implementation of the budget, a careful examination of selected operational reports, the capacity and actual needs for 2007, the council concluded that the increase in payment appropriations controlled in the draft budget was appropriate. the council considers that this level of payment appropriations is adequate and not too low. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the council has consistently followed a bottom-up approach. the final figures in our draft budget are therefore the result of targeted measures based on objective factors. the council's first reading is therefore by no means based on cross-line cuts. the above also applies to administration. secondly, we have taken a holistic approach. we have examined a number of commission activity-specific reports covering all the budgetary policy areas. thirdly, the eu budgetary procedure needs to be innovative. this is best achieved by an equal and active examination of the budgetary authority. without innovative budgetary solutions, we cannot promote the union's competitiveness and improve the efficiency of the institutions' governance. the total amount of commitments in this draft budget is eur 125.8 billion. the increase is 3.7% compared to the 2006 budget. the payment appropriations total eur 114.6 billion, which is 2.3% higher than in the 2006 budget. sub-heading 1a has seen little reduction in commitment appropriations, as the council attaches great importance to competitiveness and to responding to global challenges. the council also proposed two new pilot projects for this sub-heading, one on the learning triangle and the other on the union's own energy security. the council shall also adopt a statement on pilot projects and preparatory actions. the new interinstitutional agreement requires both budgetary authorities to present their intentions for pilot projects or preparatory actions. the council's proposal sets out four specific areas for priority action by the european union in which the council considers that pilot projects or preparatory actions should be carried out. i hope that by working together, we can reach a common vision. for subheading 1b, the council approved the commitment appropriations in accordance with the preliminary draft budget. the council reduced payment appropriations by eur 425 million in the budget lines for the completion of programmes started before 2000 and for the 2000-2006 programmes, taking account of the current level of implementation of these programmes. as regards the new programming period, the council did not make any reductions and also issued a statement expressing its concern that the commission should be able to adopt rapidly the operational programmes and projects submitted by the member states. in title 2, the council made a limited reduction of eur 365 million for all the budget lines for agricultural market interventions, except for those budget lines for which a special reduction of the same amount had already been made. these reductions follow the general principle of taking into account the previous rate of implementation and estimates of actual needs. however, the council noted that expenditure on agriculture and international fisheries agreements would be reviewed in the autumn on the basis of a letter of amendment from the commission. for commitment appropriations under subheading 3a, the council left a margin of eur 75 million. the council, however, increased the budget for the external borders fund, considering it an important political priority. the council increased the payment appropriations for heading 4 for crossborder cooperation and reconstruction in iraq because of their political importance. in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement, the council left a reserve of eur 220 million for commitments for unforeseen events. for the common foreign and security policy, the council approved the amount proposed in the preliminary draft budget, which also corresponds to the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement. in heading 5 on administrative expenditure, the council took a holistic view. it examined very carefully the budgetary needs of each institution. the increase in administrative expenditure is nevertheless 3,4% higher than in the 2006 budget. the increase in the council's administrative expenditure was limited to 0.3%, which is noteworthy. the council considers the recruitment of new staff to be of great importance in view of the 2004 enlargement and the enlargement to come. it has therefore approved all the new enlargement measures requested for 2007. one of the council's main objectives has been to ensure real productivity growth in the eu administration over the period covered by the new financial framework. to this end, the council adopted an opinion on a comprehensive programme to increase productivity in the administration for the period 2007-13. you know the different parts of the governance package very well. i would like to stress that this is an objective set by the council, not by any single member state or by the presidency alone. in the context of title 5, i would also like to recall the second council statement on the implementation of the recruitment process for the 2004 enlargement. the council is particularly concerned about the slowdown in recruitment this year. we expect significant progress in the recruitment process to be made as soon as possible in order to achieve the widest possible geographical balance. i would hope that parliament would support this endeavour and therefore the statement in question. my point of departure is that the modernisation requirements for the administration must also be applicable to the institutions of the union. the eu institutions are no different from other organisations. the eu must do its job as efficiently as possible. in this way we can show the public that we are really giving their money something back, something with added value. this requires the ability of budgetary authorities to prioritise resources. at the same time, improving the efficiency of administration increases citizens' confidence in the union's actions. in the coming months we will have to deal comprehensively with the crisis in the middle east and the necessary eu action. we must also not forget that, for the future, the european parliament and the council must address the global challenges facing the union in the 2007 budgetary procedure. finally, i am confident that we will achieve our main objective and that we will have a sufficient but not over-allocated budget in time for the financial year 2007. we know that this budgetary procedure is only in its early stages and that the final adoption of the 2007 budget is still a long way off. but i am confident that we will be able to explore all the possibilities to reach a final agreement that can be accepted by all the parties and above all by the citizens. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your interest.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on budgets. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the work on the 2007 budget confirms the old truth that while there are repetitive procedures, there are no routine budgets. i would like to add a few words to those of our rapporteur, mr elles, to address some of the problems we face in 2007. the first is not the most important, because it is technical, analytical in nature, i.e. the problem of the comparability of annual budgets is reiterated. this is the budget for 27 countries. this problem of comparability "became acute" as the geography of the european union changed in 2004/2005, but it still exists and i agree with the view that without the separation of expenditure for bulgaria and romania there is no full comparability of annual budgets. the second question, the most serious, mr elles asked, is how much the first year of the new financial perspective should make us rethink, not so much the budgetary structure as the budgetary priorities; how much continuity and how much change will there be in this first year of the new financial perspective? i see a certain continuity on the council's part, namely, that the horizontal cuts are still being made, but this time more strongly supported by the so-called activity statements. i see the traditional preference for the common foreign and security policy, but i would like to emphasize that the rapporteur of parliament has a very strong mandate, both from the commission and from parliament as a whole, to verify the individual budget lines in terms of what is called a cost-benefit analysis. this is a very strong mandate and a very strong principle that will govern the first reading of the 2007 budget in parliament. this round of negotiations begins tomorrow, after we've agreed with the other committees, of course. there is the problem of 2007, as the problem of implementing a new generation of multiannual programmes based on new regulations, with new instruments for foreign trade. the question is: how much of the budgetary discrepancy justifies the careful budgeting for 2007, which is very clear on the payment side? that was probably the main reason why the starting point is so low this time. the payments already in the commission's initial draft are less than 1% of gross national income. the council made further cuts of €1 billion 757 million, creating an unusual margin between the 2007 budget and the ceilings set in the financial perspective for that year. in our view, this is an insufficient level of payments to finance the stated objectives of the european union, as is clear from the european union's ambitions as a global player, that is, in the international arena, in research and development funding. the implementation of the budget next year is also a question of quality and motivation of the administration, and in this context we look at and analyse the council's very rigorous approach to employment and skills in the european commission. we accept the commission's signal that the reduction of over eur 50 million in equipment will prevent recruitment, especially from the new member states. there is not enough deniability on the council's part, which is why this problem will be raised in parliament's first reading, because it is not just a question of proportions in employment, it is a question of the efficiency and motivation of the administration faced with new tasks. the differences in approach to the 2007 budget were very strongly revealed albeit in a friendly atmosphere during the conciliation on 14 july. the absence of joint declarations by parliament and the council was one of them. we have time to agree on the 2007 budget by the deadline, of course. for me - and this is the last point - it is very important that minister wideroos has given a purely verbal assurance, but based on what we have written together in the new interinstitutional agreement, that she will do everything possible to ensure that the new financial regulation enters into force on 1 january 2007. the smooth implementation of the 2007 budget obviously depends on whether it is accompanied by a new financial regulation.
member of the commission. mr president, on 17 may the commission presented the draft budget. i am not going to repeat our position. today i should like to concentrate on presenting to parliament the commission’s evaluation of the council’s first reading. i should like to confirm that we very much appreciate parliament’s attitude and the way it has worked on the 2007 budget, especially the method which is to be used by the rapporteur in respect of cost-benefit analyses and impact assessments of all proposals from the council and the commission. we support this. that means any proposal on radical reforms in any area. we would be happy to have a consistent approach with respect to cost-benefit analyses and impact assessments on any policies, including the recruitment of administrative staff and administrative expenditure. therefore, today i should like to say that we are still sticking with our proposal. we think it is realistic and grounded. we have evaluated the requirements for the 2007 budget as far as realistically possible. however, to our surprise, the council has made disproportionately large cuts in administration at all the european institutions, including the commission. from this point of view, there are two elements and two separate problems. mr lewandowski has mentioned that in the 2007 budget the new member states have been given 800 posts, but the eur 56 million for salaries has been reduced. that means that the commission will not be able to recruit anyone at all. the council would like to speed up recruitment at the commission, yet recruitment at the commission will not be speeded up at all; the commission will not recruit at all in 2007 if this proposal is maintained. that means somebody here is not telling the truth. the second element of the budget which completely surprised the commission was that the council intervened in the annual budget procedure by coming forward with a multiannual approach, practically politically reopening the interinstitutional agreement which all three institutions signed in may. it is a seven-year approach to administrative costs and expenditure – a period of time which will cause the commission to lose a minimum of three directorates-general, and will upset the geographical balance which, in line with the wishes of the council and parliament, the institution is supposed to keep in mind. the balance in the linguistic approach will also be upset. in addition, the structures and human resources necessary for achieving the new policies that the council and parliament have called for, including the new financial perspective, will not be forthcoming. we were therefore surprised by the council’s attitude, which is not based on impact assessments or cost-benefit analyses: it is based solely on arithmetic. this goes against what we are trying to achieve here at the very beginning of the new financial perspective, i.e. how we are looking at the budget and how we are looking at the efficiency of the ways we use money in the european union. i should like to point out to parliament today that we are promising to cooperate openly and fully with parliament in preparing its opinion for first reading. in july i promised to provide you with technical information on the proposal, which i shall do this week, hopefully by friday. you will receive two notes on the 2007 budget and on the proposal for 2007-2013. i hope that will help all of us to achieve the final results. i should like to call on all those involved to be prudent, to make significant progress in respect of impact assessments, and to achieve whatever is necessary for all community programmes to be fulfilled.
i'm closing the agenda.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr de rossa and mr peneda, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the european social model for the future (a6-0238/2006).
mr. chairman, please! let me speak about the european social model from the point of view of a citizen of a new member state. scientists are said to distinguish between four different models: the scandinavian, the anglo-saxon, the continental, and the mediterranean. different from each other, but also sharing common characteristics. i would add to them, not fitting into any of the above, the post-communist model. post-communist, meaning no model, where supermarket workers also work until 10pm on may 1 or 24 hours, for 200 euros a month. it is therefore in the interest of the citizens of the new member states to develop and implement, at least in a basic way, a new social model common to all of europe. unfortunately, we have the biggest gap between quality of work and pay, very poor access to health care, no social minimum for people with no means of living, very low disability pensions and pensions, and finally hidden paid access to higher education. unfortunately, we have the fewest jobs, and the ones that do exist are of poor quality - paid mostly between 200 and 500 euros per month, where the cost of living is almost at the european level. unfortunately, in our country, the country of the trade union "solidarity", the rights of workers are perhaps the least protected in the whole union. i hope that the common european social model will ensure that our poorest citizens are no longer afraid of news of the next enlargement or of the introduction of the single euro currency. in this respect, we all need more union. the european social model should increase trust in european institutions, especially among the poorest citizens.
mr. chairman, please! we're on a very important subject. we have probably not taken it sufficiently and we will have to return to it again and again. however, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and the outcome of their work. i am one of those people who believe that there is a european social model. but it's not a monolithic model, it's a complex one. a model where diversity of experience is based on a community of values. this model needs to be improved and adapted to today's requirements, but this improvement must not mean weakening. so here are the main things that i would like to take away from this important debate.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. rarely are legal and ethical issues raised in discussions about mental health, and even some view immoral behavior as a modern phenomenon. but such a life-style results in a disordered and inhibited development of personality, in which the individual is guided by biological stimuli from subcortical centers that are not inhibited and controlled by the cerebral cortex, where the higher emotions are located. their thinking and intelligence are governed by impulses, and this is accompanied by a lack of higher moral, aesthetic, social, or patriotic feelings. thus, impaired personal and emotional development can affect not only individuals but entire groups and societies as the psychopathisation of society increases, further demoralizing, leading to mental disorders and personality degradation. a particular problem with modern medicine in treating mental disorders is symptomatic treatment, which only relieves symptoms but does not treat effectively.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate mr. bowes on an excellent report that reminds us of the importance of mental health not only to the individual but to society. prevention of mental disorders, psychotherapy of children, adults, families, treatment of nerves and promotion of mental hygiene are all the more important because we know that real mental illnesses - psychosis - are only treatable, not curable. it's worth remembering that drugs that treat the strict sense of psychiatry don't exist, and they were found by accident. in our western civilization, we continue to suppress and deny the existence of any kind of weakness, especially mental weakness. only somatic diseases are tolerated, and if we spent more money on psychologists and psychotherapy, we would save on consultations with body healers and on healthcare in general.
mr. chairman, please! for many years, mental health has been a shameful subject, and it continues to be overshadowed by other diseases of civilization. but the scale of the problem today is too great to ignore the dangers of mental illness. we cannot talk about health in the european union without taking these risks into account. the statistics are telling a cruel truth. an average of 58,000 people commit suicide each year. that's more than the number of people killed each year by traffic accidents, homicides, or aids. the greatest social problem today is depression, which is affecting more and more people, especially young people and increasingly ethnic minorities. economic analysts estimate that poor mental health costs our european union citizens about 3 to 4 percent of gdp, mainly through lost productivity and early retirement. it is therefore necessary to prepare and adopt as a matter of urgency a directive on mental health and the protection of the civil and fundamental rights of persons suffering from mental disorders. the implementation of the directive will define the specific framework for the implementation of the community programme. prevention of mental health problems, taking into account the different age groups, should play an important role in the mental health strategy developed in accordance with the motto 'prevention is better than cure'. already, the european alliance against depression pilot program has shown a 25% decrease in suicide and suicide attempts among young people. the commission has therefore taken a more serious approach to tackling addiction to new technologies. today, we get all excited about the fact that we have access to all sorts of technology, that everything is possible, thousands of gadgets. and what price are we paying for it? we pay the price, especially young people who are attached to the screen and who have no reason to leave it. and that's the challenge of our time, and that's what we need to answer. the adoption of a single coordinated union policy on the protection of the mental health of societies will create the right conditions for the harmonious development of the mental health of societies. it will enable them to learn to cope with difficult situations, conflict situations, stressful situations and will also help to develop better interpersonal relationships.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank all the honourable members for the very interesting and useful debate. i shall be brief. the best conclusion one could draw from the debate today is that here, as well as in the rest of the consultation process, there is broad support for the establishment of a new strategy on mental health. this is a very positive signal for the commission going forward, because throughout the general consultation process, the parliamentary process and the process of consulting the member states, similar levels of support have been expressed for these efforts. the truth is that there is added value for an initiative and strategy at european level and that is why we intend to come forward with a strategy very soon. amongst other things, it is very important that we promote cooperation on mental health between member states, between stakeholders and between different sectors. involving all relevant sectors in the effort to provide better public health is an important aspect of the new strategy. as i said at the beginning, we intend to place mental health at the core of our health strategy and the public health initiatives. schools and workplaces have a greater influence on mental well-being than the actual health sector. teaching parenting skills is also important. older people must have opportunities to participate actively in social life. many very interesting issues have been raised and we will take them into account when we draft the strategy. we will look into prevention and, as you know from previous debates, it is my basic important commitment and the basis of my strategy for this term to promote prevention and not just treatment. gender aspects will be taken into account. when we had a similar debate here on the gender aspects of health, i said that our policies from then on would take into account the gender aspects in all our health initiatives and in the various areas of research, promotion, prevention, care, treatment and rehabilitation. they will all take gender into account. it will be reflected in the strategy document that the commission will prepare. as i said, we will be looking into prevention and some of the causes, not all of which are avoidable, of course – such as ageing, for example. ageing is a reality and a fact. we have an ageing population. the point is to make ageing healthy. we are living longer and we need to be healthy in our old age, and mental health is a very important aspect of that. i should like to finish by saying, in the light of all the numbers and statistics that have been mentioned here, that this is just the tip of the iceberg. it is not only those who suffer from mental health who are affected: there are also the families, friends, employers, employees and colleagues. the truth is that the whole of society suffers as a result of mental health problems. that is why perhaps the best achievement of this whole process, including the strategy, would be to make mental health a priority, not only for the european union – i believe we in the commission and in the european parliament have already done that – but also for each member state separately and the community as a whole.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank mr bowes for his very thorough and detailed report on improving mental health in the population mental health strategy for the european union. mental health issues know no national boundaries. so we can talk about a mental health strategy for the whole of the union. moreover, at national level, a common strategy, rules for cooperation between different institutions and monitoring of their implementation can improve the process of creating and providing services for people with intellectual disabilities and those affected by mental disorders. throughout history, many measures of humanity have been developed. one is the treatment of the mentally ill. i think it's very important to have a mandate to fight stigma, to eliminate prejudice, to change attitudes and stereotypes about mental disorders. meanwhile, in poland, when a politician wants to insult another politician, he says or suggests that the other is mentally or psychologically ill. unfortunately, this is the case even for some members of the european parliament. in the meantime, we should all remember that people with mental illness deserve to be treated with dignity and humanity. in countries with high unemployment, the problem is particularly acute for people with disabilities. i therefore strongly support initiatives aimed at non-discriminatory treatment of people affected by mental illness and social integration of people with mental disorders. this is especially true when good working conditions have a positive effect on mental health.
mr. chairman, please! i agree that point 6 is very important, also because there are six members in the chamber at the moment. i am taking part in this debate for the first time, and it is like watching the movie "the magnificent seven", and the seventh magnificent is the president of the parliament. it's a good match. i agree with the previous speakers that a debate at this late hour just before midnight is not the best idea. i remember the debates in the polish parliament that ended at 3 a.m. and i never thought it was possible in strasbourg, but i had little imagination. we are awaiting the european commission's decision on a common system of references. we hope that the commissioners from cyprus, italy and ireland will present their final position. the essence of these regulations is the possibility of using this right by ordinary citizens of poland, the czech republic, france, denmark and other countries of the european union. it is also about harmonising and harmonising consumer and other rights that make up the acquis communautaire. this is a very important matter, and i regret, once again, that we are discussing it at this late hour. nevertheless, i think that what the commissioner said today shows the importance which the european commission attaches to this problem.
mr. chairman, please! the 1990s are remembered for the horrific crimes committed in our southern neighbourhood. the world has never known how brutal and ruthless brothers-in-law, best neighbors, could be to each other yesterday, and today, sworn enemies. decimated by the police and the serbian orthodox minority, the muslim albanians who make up 90% of kosovo's population were "saved" by the kosovo liberation army. since then, the ethnic cleansing started by the bloody serbian president's government has ended, but there have still been numerous acts of aggression against the serbian minority. today, albanians still live in ghettolike areas protected by international organizations. they're trying to rebuild their lives. the european council has concentrated its assistance on the rule of law. however, there is a lack of a comprehensive approach to this complex problem, especially in the context of the lack of respect for human rights and the protection of national minorities and the right to one's own homeland.
mr. chairman, please! the integration of the western balkans into the european union is one of the most important tasks for european policy in the coming years. this is a european territory inhabited by many nations and ethnic groups, societies divided by state, religion, history and the bloody break-up of yugoslavia in the 1990s. in this area, kosovo is the gordy hub of european policy. the united nations mission has already begun preparations for withdrawal from kosovo. this means that the european union should be ready to take up its role in kosovo in 2007. in the light of this new situation, the first challenge for the european union is the still undefined status of kosovo. the latest round of talks in vienna on 24 july under the auspices of the un failed to produce a breakthrough. serbia, to which kosovo formally belongs, has not agreed to the province's independence. the kosovo albanian authorities are not satisfied with even the broadest autonomy. in a psychological warfare, representatives of the serbian authorities have accused the un secretary general's special envoy for the future status of kosovo, marti ahtisaari, of lacking impartiality in the negotiations. meanwhile, the political adviser to the albanian prime minister, koço danaj, has declared that by 2013, albanians living in the balkans should unite and integrate into the framework of a natural albania. these events of this summer, which are overshadowed by the conflict in the middle east, highlight the enormity of the problem facing the european union institutions in the coming months. the second challenge concerns the organisation of the future european union mission in kosovo. this applies to funds, structures, staffing levels and, above all, to the union's political strategy in the western balkans. no other country, no other international organisation can match the european union in its historic role of guaranteeing democracy, peace and prosperity to the societies of this part of the european continent, based on respect for diversity.
mr. chairman, please! when i spoke at the foreign affairs committee two years ago about the dream of a "greater albania" for some albanians, most european politicians did not have that in mind. meanwhile, a few months ago, the albanian foreign minister referred to this idea, and at the end of august, the political adviser to the prime minister of that country stressed that by 2013, albanians living in the balkans should be integrated into what he called "natural albania". he believes that macedonia should first be divided and the albanian-majority districts annexed to albania (in macedonia, one in four citizens is albanian). a senior albanian official called serbia, macedonia and montenegro "unnatural creatures". such statements cannot be ignored and the question cannot be avoided: what will the granting of independence to kosovo lead to? isn't this another step towards joining this district into this "greater albania"? i was an observer at the last parliamentary elections in albania, and they were not 100% as they should have been, but you can see the progress of the albanians on the road to democracy. but even this democratic albania can be a "greater albania" at the same time. i'm talking about the warning in september of 2006.
mr. chairman, please! the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states and the republic of albania is a major achievement of the european union on the road to the integration of the western balkan countries into the european union. the more than three and a half million muslim-majority population of albania, at the heart of the european continent, is an important bridge for the construction of a europe of the future based on the intersection of cultures and tolerance for different religious and civilizational traditions. for albania, the eu agreement is an opportunity to modernise, build a lasting democracy and reform the economy. its immediate benefits will be the creation of a free trade area, the rule of law and a functioning market economy. the current stage of eu-albania relations presents albania, its political elites and civil society with new challenges and prospects. i would like to highlight three problems. firstly, the question of overcoming nationalism, the temptation of a political strategy that appeals to the greater albania, to the albanian population in other countries in the western balkans. albania must now reorient its national interest towards european integration, towards peaceful coexistence within the european community, and reflect on its own history and role in the modern world. follow the path that other european nations have followed in the last 50 years. the second concerns the rule of law, the fight against organised crime and the improvement of democracy. albania must ensure respect for the rights of national, ethnic and religious minorities. the third problem is the protection of women's rights. an effective policy to ensure women's safety and equality. the commission is also proposing to set up a european network of experts in the field of gender equality and to provide them with the necessary information to enable them to carry out their work.
mr president, there are not only people with severe psychotic disorders in the european union, but also people with a number of psychological disorders. i should therefore like to move the following oral amendment to paragraph 48 so that it would read ‘... believes that the term “treatment” should be interpreted broadly, including the psychotherapy conducted by fully qualified specialists ...’. it does not change much but it adds something that reflects what we face in our societies.
mr. chairman, please! the european public has welcomed the union's swift and unbureaucratic response to the events in lebanon. in fact, it was the council's decision to send 7,000 troops to lebanon that saved the unifil mission. like the humanitarian aid that the commission has been handing out in installments, it has saved our image in this country. and by doing this, we have a chance to become a significant player in the middle east, rather than a big absentee, as we were during the iraq crisis. and for that to happen in the short term, i believe that the most important thing is to prepare well and to command the unifil mission. until recently, this was not a difficult mission, the mandate of these forces was limited, at the moment this mandate must be much more extended, and therefore it will be a dangerous mission, dangerous, especially for our soldiers. tasks such as cutting off hezbollah terrorists from sources of supply or disarming hezbollah pose a serious threat to the contingent. secondly, in the medium term, financial aid to lebanon is needed and should be channelled more broadly. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the implementation of the un security council resolution on the situation in lebanon. we must use our soft power, and especially the strength of the eu's money, to do this. thirdly, in the long term, a comprehensive peace settlement for the whole region is essential. this means engaging in a serious dialogue with syria and succeeding in negotiating with iran over its nuclear programme. and finally, the agreement between israel and the palestinians, because that is where the key to stability in the middle east lies. and without him, this region will still be on fire.
mr. president, there is no military solution to the conflict in lebanon. the words of the joint resolution we are discussing today are a source of real comfort and hope. for many nations in the past, war was a tool to enhance their prestige and position on the international stage, but those days are long gone. the words of prussian general von clausewitz, that "war is only the continuation of politics by other means", should be thrown into the dustbin of history today. this is confirmed by the un charter, which prohibits the use of force to resolve international disputes, and even more so the aggression and violation of the sovereignty of another state, and therefore the israeli military intervention in lebanon violated international law, exacerbated the existing conflict and, consequently, provoked hezbollah's armed response. it is right that the european parliament pays particular attention to the human dimension of this conflict, that it calls on the parties to release the hostages, to treat the civilian population humanely and to respect the geneva conventions of 1949. the lebanese conflict is happening right next door, almost outside our wall. through the participation of eu soldiers, humanitarian aid, europe is already playing a significant role, but as an active player the union will have a real chance to make a significant contribution to the resolution of this conflict and it is through such actions that the union creates its own common foreign policy, so well described in the european constitution, although this is why we need the european constitution so much.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i'll make three brief points. the first is the social assessment of israel's reaction to hezbollah's insidious, shameful move, a reaction that is incomparable to the kidnapping of two soldiers. it looks like a trojan war complex for helen. there are many examples of kidnapping and political solutions in the world. it is difficult to support the reactions of a state whose existence has broad support in the world, except for some fundamentalist countries, which this state has presented as a military aggressor. it is hard for even friends of israel to accept what we have heard from important members of this assembly. secondly, did we not know that hezbollah was arming itself with several thousand katyas? it didn't happen in a week. it must have taken months, even years. where were the international observers? because if there was such knowledge and such will, i think that preventive measures could be taken. now we've stepped up and we're allocating large sums of money to repair the damage, but is it too late? i'd like to add that we can't bring back the lives of the people who were killed, the children, the civilians. and one last thing, commissioner. i'm not going to tell you. this conflict is being perpetuated by what is called social inheritance and may continue for a long time. assuming a two-state solution is possible, for palestine and israel, it seems that we need to prepare both sides for such a solution by providing appropriate education from the first grade of primary school. perhaps this preparation will be a slowly building social base that will facilitate a compromise political decision in the future. perhaps it will be a future generation - today's children and youth - that will come to the decision that seems to us to be the only sensible one.
mr. chairman, please! the israeli-lebanese crisis is no longer the typical middle eastern war we have been accustomed to for decades. this is the obvious beginning of a new global conflict, with iran and syria, hezbollah and hamas, sunnis in iraq and al qaeda, and the united states and its allies. there is therefore a need for new political measures to resolve the conflict situation in this part of the world. europe should be involved in resolving the conflict in iraq. afghanistan should also be of concern to the european union. the global threat requires a comprehensive response from us, the united states and nato. europe needs a common foreign and defence policy. russia should decide which side it's on. and this is the decision that europe must demand from moscow. both in the iranian nuclear dossier and the syrian weapons dossier. how did russian weapons get into hezbollah's arsenal?
mr. chairman, please! when we talk about relations with china, we are aware of their importance. the importance of this for the future of the european union is underlined by the individual speakers, the report and all those who have spoken here. but they also all agree on how fundamentally different these relationships are. our approach should be different in this discussion than, say, our relationship with another great country in the region, india. when we discuss china, we must always bear in mind what is the foundation of this house, the foundation of the creation of the european union. well, our priority is to promote, encourage and create conditions for people to live in a democratic way, not be subjected to repression, not be subjected to the kind of activities that are on the agenda all the time in china. we are discussing this report, which is mostly correct and i hope that all the amendments, all the elements that concern human and civil rights will be adopted by the parliament we must remember that repression of both religious communities and all of them, from the catholic church to religious movements like falun gong, which are being repressed in a completely dramatic way and those most fundamental human rights, are still not a thing of the past, not out of the practice of life in china. forced sterilizations, forced abortions, they still happen. china's actions in the area of national repression are not always in the past, and the best example of this is tibet and its situation today. we must pay attention to all of this in our report, because it is really very important that both the european parliament and the european union as a whole in its relations with china do not focus only on economic statistics, on large trade turnover, but that they focus on what ideals the european union promotes and should promote.
mr president, i am appalled at what has happened in this house today. clearly, for some members, the interests of international communism take precedence over european values! panie przewodniczący! dobrze się stało, że parlament europejski wypowie się na temat stosunków unii z chinami. jest to przecież druga potęga na świecie, która ani nie jest demokracją, ani nie ma gospodarki rynkowej. do 2010 roku chiny chcą stworzyć wraz z państwami aseanu największy blok gospodarczy świata. a już dzisiaj są jego największą fabryką. unia europejska po rozszerzeniu stała się największym partnerem handlowym chin, dlatego relacje z chinami są dla nas tak ważne. pamiętajmy jednak, aby czysto ekonomiczne spojrzenie na nasze stosunki nie przysłoniło nam rzeczywistego obrazu chińskiego smoka. a politycznie, chiny wciąż są zagrożeniem dla świata. nadal rozkwita tam utopijny socjalizm. w więzieniach przebywają więźniowie polityczni, brak jest wolności słowa, istnieje cenzura. partia komunistyczna jest ciągle jedynie słuszną drogą. stosowanie tortur pozostaje w chinach bardzo rozpowszechnione, tak samo jak dyskryminacja religijna. z drugiej zaś strony chiny są trzecim na świecie importerem ropy naftowej. to ekonomiczne wymagania zbliżyły chiny do krajów z problemami jak iran, sudan czy wenezuela. walka o surowce będzie potęgować w przyszłości napięcie w relacjach z chinami. polityka energetyczna chin powoduje wchodzenie w bilateralne układy, które niszczą wysiłki zmierzające do ustabilizowania ceny ropy na rynku. niepokojący jest też znaczny wzrost chińskich wydatków militarnych, zwłaszcza w kontekście agresywnych wypowiedzi sugerujących możliwość użycia siły zbrojnej wobec tajwanu. chiny regularnie przeprowadzają manewry wojskowe, symulujące atak na tajwan. unia europejska w tej sprawie musi zająć zdecydowane stanowisko. tylko w pełni niepodległy tajwan jest gwarancją pokoju na dalekim wschodzie. raz jeszcze to podkreślę: tylko w pełni niepodległy tajwan jest gwarancją pokoju na dalekim wschodzie. tak zwany raport beldera, nad którym debatujemy jest obiektywnym spojrzeniem na relacje unia - chiny i miejmy nadzieję, że będzie początkiem bardziej krytycznego podejścia unii do problemu chińskiego na świecie.
mr. chairman, please! in a rapidly globalising world economy, it is absolutely crucial that europe develops cooperation with emerging economic powers such as china and india. however, this cooperation should be mutually beneficial. unfortunately, in the case of china-eu relations, this sound principle has been undermined to the detriment of europe. this is due to the following reasons. first, chinese producers do not include in the cost of production, inter alia, social security contributions for workers and environmental costs. this allows them to offer chinese products at significantly lower prices. secondly, the production of many exported products, such as metal products, in china benefits from various forms of state support, which is prohibited as public aid under eu rules. the export of these products to the european market thus creates unfair competition for european producers. third, the chinese currency is clearly overvalued against the dollar or the euro. the artificial maintenance of the current price clearly improves the efficiency of chinese exports and deteriorates the efficiency of imports to the chinese market. fourth, the chinese authorities have taken virtually no action to curb the massive counterfeiting of branded products by chinese producers. suffice it to say that as much as 70% of all counterfeit products detected on the european market originate from china. in this context, the european commission should do everything possible to minimise the phenomenon of unfair competition from china, in particular it should intensify the following actions. first, the commission should increase its pressure on china, both in the wto and directly, to eliminate unfair competition from china, in particular through exchange rate policy. secondly, the commission should adopt a coherent anti-dumping policy towards china as soon as possible. in particular, the commission should consider imposing high anti-dumping duties in the sectors most exposed to unfair competition, namely in the textile, footwear, metal and agricultural sectors. finally, thirdly, the european commission should propose comprehensive aid to those sectors of the european economy which have suffered so far from unfair chinese competition.
mr president, china is a strategic partner for the european union and europe recognises china's status as an emerging power on the international stage. in recent years, china-europe relations have expanded in many areas, primarily in the economic field but also in the field of scientific and technological cooperation. the most important example of a strategic partnership may be the cooperation agreement on the european galileo satellite navigation programme. the european union is china's largest partner and investor in china, and china is the european union's second largest trading partner. as a rising economic power and a permanent member of the un security council and the world trade organization, china has increasingly assumed responsibility for international security and global order. in this respect, i would like to draw attention to the information sent by amnesty international to the finnish presidency in connection with the china-eu summit to be held on 9 september this year. amnesty international has drawn attention to the human rights situation in china. the report raises the issue of the use of the death penalty in china, forced labour re-education, arbitrary detention and imprisonment, torture and harassment of human rights defenders, and the lack of media freedom in the country. amnesty international also raises the issue of china's arms sales to sudan as an example of a foreign policy that does not take into account basic human rights in the modern world. the european union must combine a strategic partnership with china with lobbying the chinese authorities to extend the scope of political and personal freedoms in the chinese political system and to ensure that the constitution and international treaties signed by china are effectively respected.
mr. chairman, please! the rapporteur, the spiritus movens of the ecological debate, summarises the experience gained so far, mainly by the fao. it emphasises the essential functions of labelling and its importance for improving the quality of fishery products and giving fisheries the appropriate cultural context. i am pleased to say that the newly admitted baltic states share the commission's intention in its communication. however, i find in their position a preference for certain aspects of the labelling problem, of which four issues are particularly important. first, they strongly support the need to set minimum requirements for eco-labelling schemes, taking into account the expectations of stakeholders: fishermen, processors and consumers. the starting point for the creation of these programmes should be voluntary participation. second, the principle of voluntary application of the labelling system should mean in practice the rejection of any economic discrimination and of any trade barriers. thirdly, a key component of these guarantees must also be to ensure that smes and companies from less developed countries are financially accessible to the scheme. fourthly, attention is also drawn to the baltic states' long-standing and difficult-to-remove restrictions on the control and surveillance of open sea fishing. the most visible environmental effects can be achieved in aquaculture, where labelling is simply easier to implement. in conclusion, i would like to support the overall message of the fraga report, which is a truly compelling inspiration for the european union, which has the opportunity to show the world the right way to look for the desired implementation concepts in the field of eco-labelling.
mr. chairman, please! since the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam, it has been the competence of the community to adopt measures in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters having cross-border effects to the extent necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market. the fact that a number of legal instruments have been adopted in this field and that others are in the process of being drawn up, means that full membership of the hague conference on private international law will enable the community to negotiate the hague conventions in the areas falling within its competence. this will facilitate the coherence of european union legislation with subsequent international instruments and the community will become subject to the rights and obligations arising from the relevant conventions. moreover, full membership is an important step towards deepening european integration, placing the european union in a new role as an international actor in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters. it is gratifying that the appropriate amendments to the statute of the conference have been submitted to enable the community to accede, and should be fully adopted in the near future. i would like to stress that i am pleased with the words of commissioner frattini, because from the perspective of the european parliament, which is actively involved in the community legislative procedure, and in particular from the perspective of the legal affairs committee, which has jurisdiction over private law matters, we must pay particular attention to the procedural framework defining the manner and principles of the european parliament's future cooperation in the work of the hague conference and the consultation of draft conventions.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by expressing my gratitude and that of my colleague, mr figel', to the rapporteur and the committee on culture and education for their constructive efforts in producing this excellent report. this report highlights concerns over the importance attached to cultural heritage. they are concerns which the commission fully shares. much remains to be done in this area. however, the commission’s involvement has already been demonstrated both through the present culture 2000 programme and through other european programmes and financial instruments. several points raised in the report have already been taken into account by the commission. however, it is a very helpful report, which gives us the opportunity to stress once more the need to use all the existing possibilities to protect natural and architectural heritage. within the framework of the treaty, the commission encourages member states to use all the opportunities offered by european financial instruments – the structural funds, for example – for investment in cultural heritage projects. such investments are clearly important means for the creation of new employment opportunities and for economic growth. they therefore contribute to regional development and regeneration. in this respect, the european commission, and the services of my colleague mr figel' in particular, are monitoring all european programmes and ensuring that the financial instruments incorporate cultural aspects into their objectives. as a result, over the last few years, we have witnessed a marked improvement. i am very pleased at this development and could give you examples of member states, such as greece or portugal, that have grasped the opportunities offered by community support frameworks and have introduced operational programmes for cultural heritage. the commission also encourages cooperation between member states in the field of culture and cultural heritage through the culture 2000 programme. in the near future, these efforts will continue through the newly proposed culture programme 2007-2013. thanks to the sound cooperation between the three institutions – and i should like to take this opportunity to thank, again on behalf of mr figel', the rapporteur, mr graça moura – this new programme for 2007-2013 will hopefully be adopted before the end of the year. in this context, partnerships such as those proposed in the report could be considered for funding in the near future. as the report also recognises, the european commission is very active in its efforts to increase awareness of the importance of cultural heritage through actions such as the european prize for cultural heritage and the joint action undertaken with the council of europe on european heritage days. in the future, we could consider ways of enlarging the scope and having the european parliament’s concerns better reflected in these actions. in conclusion, i would stress that this report is being discussed at precisely the right time. we are at a juncture when our new culture programme is about to be adopted, when the commission is reflecting on its actions for the coming years and when many points are up for discussion. this report will certainly be of major interest in that context.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report by mr sifunakis is of great significance, as it highlights the need to address the basis of the cultures of peoples, i.e. the traditional culture that is still alive, especially in rural and island communities. the european union, including the european parliament and the european commission, has so far focused its efforts on building a universal european culture a culture for all. this doctrine has never been realized and never will be realized, because culture is a collection of values developed by people coming together in nations. culture is what unites these peoples, but it is also what sets them apart from other peoples through their beauty, their richness, their cultural distinctiveness and their common tradition, which we often call heritage. that is why we in the european union must take care of multilingualism, because language is the basis of national culture, popular culture is the basis of national cultures, cultural and spiritual heritage is a value that is disappearing, as is folklore, handicrafts and craftsmanship, and the disappearance of professions is being driven by the progress of civilization and technology through mass production. the preservation of these values of different cultures, alongside the beauty of the landscape and the natural environment of man, is an opportunity for the intellectual development of people and a better understanding of the world around us, an opportunity for understanding, mutual respect and natural integration through values, not the force of economic and cultural domination.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my support and appreciation for mr sifunakis' report and thus join in all the warm words that have been spoken today on this report. with this report, the european parliament expresses its concern for the cultural heritage of the european countryside. a major achievement, but one that is often underappreciated and forgotten. we live in a world of rapid change today. the village, which has changed little over the centuries, has undergone "shocking" changes in recent decades. the technology and tools of farming have changed, the work in the field has changed fundamentally, the rural architecture has also changed. in poland, until the 1960s, the countryside was mostly built of wood, and then there was a period of rapid reconstruction. new homes were more comfortable, but not always nicer than the old ones. the old rural buildings began to disappear very quickly and today there is little left of it. the more care we should take to protect what is left effectively. the report by mr sifunakis underlines the importance of these issues and indicates concrete ways of promoting the preservation of the valuable architectural values of the european countryside. this is a step in a very good direction and at a very good time, when there is still something to protect and preserve for future generations.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: this is not the first time we have dealt with this subject and we know that sri lanka has been the subject of our interest in this house on many occasions. we have already spoken about historical matters, and i have already spoken about the problems that we have to face in taking a stand on the various sides of the dispute. because on the one hand, there are the current injuries of all those who fall victim to these conflicts, but on the other hand, we cannot forget that there is a certain past that is pregnant with the present, and we cannot automatically assume that these are just the injured and blinded by the fate that has sworn against them. there is a need to take a position on who is in sri lanka - i don't want to use that risky term, but let's say - the original host, and who is that guest there who has been pushed around and whose activity is causing harm to those they have come to. i don't want to name names, i don't want to talk about any parties or parties, but i want to draw attention to the fact that no judgment of today can be deprived of some analysis and judgment of what happened in the past and a certain division between the aggressor and the victim. because it's not a simple division, that everyone who suffers is innocent, and everyone who is, at this point, guilty. while we, as an international organization, should be concerned first and foremost with ending the harm to ordinary people as soon as possible, this cannot be done without some historical analysis, some concept of the torturer and the victim. i think that our parliament should be much more active than it has been so far.
mr. chairman, please! in recent weeks, sri lanka has seen renewed violence between tamil guerrillas and government forces. as a result of the brutal violence, more than 800 people have died since the beginning of the year. sri lanka's weak justice system has failed to respond to the widespread human rights violations, the killing of aid workers and the recruitment of children into armed conflict. both sides, the colombo government and the tamil tigers, are holding each other accountable for breaking the agreement. the growing clashes threaten to escalate into civil war. the un peacekeeping mission was forced to withdraw from the country on september 1 due to insecurity from the tamil tigers. it is also particularly worrying that the escalating conflict is holding back the island's economic development by blocking aid to those affected by the tsunami. the implementation of the un humanitarian aid plan, which is an additional element to the funds already allocated, should therefore be supported in particular. in the face of such a conflict, the international community must call on both sides to cease fire and negotiate a ceasefire. we can no longer tolerate the aggression that innocent civilians suffer every day.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: there's no doubt that there are two more dictatorial communist regimes, because communist cannot be different from dictatorial. this is cuba and north korea. the world should do everything in its power to eliminate both communist regimes. today we're talking about these poor refugees from north korea. they're not economic refugees. we understand that countries often defend themselves against economic refugees. the return of economic refugees, however painful, only brings them back to a bad economic situation. the return of political refugees puts them in the worst possible danger. so the first thing the international community should do is not allow any of the emigrants to be sent back to north korea. they're going to have the cruelest fate you can imagine. that should be the first goal of all our activity.
mr. chairman, please! this is not the first time we have dealt with north korea, and i regret to say that in recent years, little has changed for the better in this country. human rights are still being violated there. today, we're addressing another issue of refugees, whose hunger, repression in their homeland, has forced them to make the most difficult decision of their lives, to flee their country, often at the risk of their lives. thailand in particular is becoming a temporary home for many of them, and the thai authorities, who have good relations with korea, want to enforce the law on illegal immigration against them. i appeal to the thai authorities, known for their hospitality, not to send refugees back to their country, exposing them and their families to disproportionate persecution, but to send them to another country. don't leave these people to the regime.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, you know very well the sad story of the many north koreans seeking asylum, and the latest case is now in thailand. the commission deeply regrets that these refugees were not treated in accordance with international humanitarian law and urges the thai authorities to respect the principle of non-refoulement, as they usually do, and to ensure safe passage to a third country where the refugees can be resettled. we hope that ongoing discussions between thailand, the south korean authorities and the un high commissioner for refugees will result in the transfer of these persons to south korea or another third country in the coming days. in this context, i would also like to highlight that the situation of the h’mong refugees from laos living in thailand is of great concern. for north koreans, asylum-seeking is the symptom and not the cause of an issue which is quite well known, namely, the undemocratic regime in the democratic people’s republic of korea, with widespread poverty, the collapse of the economy and human rights concerns. the european union has an engagement policy with north korea involving humanitarian aid, some eur 345 million of european assistance since 1995, and people-to-people contacts and director-level troika contacts, including on human rights. a human rights resolution was adopted by the united nations in november 2005. this dealt, among other things, with the return of north korean nationals to their country. the resolution angered the north koreans, who suspended the humanitarian aid, which was only resumed a few months ago. the european union will continue with its support for the six-party talks and with its engagement policy in an attempt to obtain practical improvements and treat the cause of the problem. i can assure you, on behalf of my colleague mrs ferrero-waldner, that the commission will also continue to follow events involving the refugees in thailand closely, in the context – as mr cappato has just said – of eu-asia dialogue.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: zimbabwe is an example of how the bad side of decolonization can take over. as my predecessor said, southern rhodesia, now zimbabwe, was once the granary of much of africa. today, it is unable to feed its own population. in many countries, especially in african countries, we have seen precisely these negative aspects of decolonization, when power in the hands of irresponsible and corrupt political forces has led to the worst possible consequences for those very countries that were supposed to enjoy liberation from colonial rule. meanwhile, it has turned to the detriment of their own citizens. today, the proposal of the zimbabwean leader to return the farms to their former owners is obviously overdue and does not inspire the slightest confidence. i think the first thing we should do is humanitarian aid and education, because i don't really see any other way out of the situation, any other possible action.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in zimbabwe, we have seen in recent years a deterioration in the political, social and health situation of the people of that country. robert mugabe's political dictatorship is accompanied by a social catastrophe on the territory of zimbabwe. operation murambatsvina has left some 700,000 people homeless. some four million people in zimbabwe are now facing starvation, and the number of aids cases is rising. and it's getting to the point where over 3,000 people are dying every week in this country. the latest moves by the mugabe dictatorship to try to control the country's red cross are particularly troubling. the european parliament's attention should now be focused on the activities of the zimbabwean trade unions, especially on the protest actions that the trade unions will take in the coming weeks in zimbabwe. we owe the trade unions of this country a special helping hand.
mr. chairman, please! our colleague from austria is right when she says that we are once again talking about zimbabwe in our parliament. it's a never-ending story, and it's actually a country that holds world records: 70% unemployment, the highest inflation in the world, 3,200 people dying every week from aids, and when elections are held, the voter turnout is the lowest in the world. it's 15%. in this country, four million people are at risk of starvation. this situation is a challenge for the whole world, including the european union. i hope we will not stop talking and i agree with what our spanish colleague mr rueda has just said, that we should not apply double standards, of course, to talk about zimbabwe, but not only about zimbabwe because in other countries in the world also basic human rights are being violated and that we must continue to avoid these double standards. it is good that the european parliament is taking the floor on this matter once again, and hopefully for the last time.
mr. chairman, please! exactly two weeks ago, i had the opportunity to take part in a visit to south ossetia with a delegation from the european parliament. well, it turns out that in this hot spot in the south caucasus, there are at least 10 armed conflicts involving firearms every day. the peacekeeping force that russia is deploying there was supposed to keep the peace for both the citizens and this part of the south caucasus. however, according to information we have received from finnish major lehtonen, who is the head of the osce mission, russian peacekeepers are doing nothing to explain the causes of these conflicts and possibly to prosecute those who are inciting them. i would therefore like to draw the attention of the european parliament to the fact that leaving this important part of our continent under the control of a single peaceful armed force is unacceptable at this point in time and that we should possibly also seek to have the european union have a greater influence on how the situation in south ossetia is controlled.
mr. chairman, please! i too would like to refer to the ecological disaster that occurred on the night of 19 to 20 august this year when a greek ship, commissioned by the netherlands, unloaded 400 tonnes of refinery waste. what's the situation now? right now, 11 areas in the region are contaminated, tens of thousands of people are hospitalized, and seven people have died. according to the un, no company registered in europe should export toxic goods to africa, but this is very common. this case is particularly dramatic, it's an absolute scandal, because it happened in a place where the area is very populated. we in the european parliament are giving a lot of money to africa, billions of euros, and we are now having to give humanitarian aid in addition. every human being has the right to clean water and clean air, and that's why we're going to have more immigrants.
mr. chairman, please! i hand over to you about a hundred thousand protests of poles from poland and the world against the shameful resolution of the european parliament that slanders for alleged anti-semitism, homophobia and racism, above all poland, poles and catholics appreciated by millions of listeners radio maryja. the resolution slandering poland is already being used and some are invoking it in an attempt to pressure the european union to interfere in the internal affairs of my homeland. how parliament responds to these protests will not only be a measure of democracy and tolerance, but an indicator of whether the assembly will triumph in this forum of truth, or whether parliament will be an arena for the propagation of lies. we will appeal the resolution to the european court of justice, because we do not know the facts that would justify the theses in the resolution adopted by the votes of 301 mps, who get their knowledge about poland and poles from the liberal media that is hostile to us and have never listened to radio maria, and yet voted for the adoption of a document that is not in line with reality and truth. these are the signatures of the protest.
mr. chairman, please! while in poland, you lamented the lack of contact between the european institutions and the citizens. you have a unique opportunity to change that. we are handing over to you today nearly 100,000 votes relating to the work of this parliament. you have received letters from solidarity people, individuals, organisations, local authorities, academic institutions, and even from outside europe. everyone is concerned about the shape of europe and awaits your answer. they expect the european parliament to apologise for the unjust and unfounded attack on poland and catholic radio maria in a resolution adopted on 15 june. this document is a compromise for the european parliament. we cannot build the future of europe on lies. the history of the polish nation and state is a model of coexistence with other nations and religions. radio maria is an example of serving man in truth, teaching us to love and respect each other. this radio is close to the man! it's the radio that gives us god! this is the voice that europe needs when it is lost!
mr. chairman, please! according to the hong kong centre for human rights and democracy, 200 people are still in chinese prisons for participating in the tiananmen square demonstration in 1989, 17 years ago. the young people who demonstrated in the most peaceful way then are now devastated by the terrible conditions in chinese prisons, almost elderly. the ones who survived, of course, because the chinese regime sentenced many of them to death. it's estimated that 15,000 people were convicted in total. it's a truth we sometimes know, but we seem to forget all the time. my vote today is just another reminder. we will not bring back to life those who have already given their lives for the right to express their views. but we can do something about the 200 who are still in chinese prisons. let's not be indifferent to this, they're just waiting for us, they don't have anyone else to wait for.
mr. chairman, please! donations to public benefit organizations are supposed to help those in need, that's the idea. unfortunately, the current eu vat law in poland effectively discourages potential donors in practice. since the amendment of the vat act adapting polish law to eu provisions, the number of donors has been systematically decreasing. in the past, when a taxpayer gave goods to needy people free of charge, he would charge tax on their actual value. now, however, he must count it from the purchase price, so that when he gives away a computer that has been in use for several years, the donor must pay the same tax as if it were new equipment. after all, the value of the donated goods at the time of their transfer is much lower than what is shown on the purchase invoice. often, even the market price that could be obtained is lower than the tax that must be paid on the donation. the decision to tax donations destroys the very idea of helping those in need. there are many times when people find themselves in absurd situations where they would rather throw away useful items or food than give to those in need because it's cheaper and safer, because there's no fiscal risk. if this repressive law is not changed and the state punishes donors for their good hearts, we will witness a growing indifference towards those most in need.
mr. chairman, please! i am forced to raise a subject which should not be in the european union in the 21st century. i am referring to the worrying development of neo-nazism and fascism in germany, which is a threat to poland and the czech republic. the problem also threatens future relations within the european community. a few days ago, the elections for the state assembly of mecklenburg and upper pomerania were concluded, with the national democratic party of germany winning over 7% of the vote. it's another landtag with the npd. the views of members of this group are striking, who question the polish-german border, proclaim the need to build the fourth reich. adolf hitler is called a phenomenon, and rudolf hess an absolute idealist. they deny the holocaust and they spread nazi prejudice against foreigners. how is it possible that in a member state of the union such as germany, such parties operate legally by spreading hatred, xenophobia, racism and anti-semitism? last year, the npd received over a million euros in subsidies from the state. this is a scandal. the union must impose a firm ban on such groups. i ask my colleagues to vote for a joint resolution condemning the german political system, which still has room for neo-nazism.
mr. chairman, please! i have one minute to comment, but i would point out that the directive on air quality in europe, with amendments that significantly tighten the standards, treats the newly admitted countries on an equal footing with the 15 countries of the 'old union' that have long-standing strategies to reduce emissions. according to estimates by the polish ministry of the environment, in order to meet the requirements of the directives, we need an investment of over pln 50 billion, which would also be accompanied by a significant increase in social and economic costs. increasing living costs in poorer social groups could negate the benefits of improved air quality by reducing living standards through malnutrition, lack of access to treatment, hygiene and other environmental factors that contribute to good health. 'clean air for europe' other strategies will not solve the problem in the short term. we are therefore in favour of extending the period for achieving standards, especially in the new member states, and against tightening the conditions for derogations. we'll vote against the rigorous amendments.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the speakers for their important contributions to this discussion. as a closing remark, i would like to restate the importance of continued action to tackle air pollution. the adverse health impacts, lost economic productivity and damage to environmental quality are still much too great. some have criticised the strategy from one angle, some from another angle. some consider that the proposed flexibility goes too far, others think that this flexibility is too little. we will be reviewing the strategy to see what progress has been made and how much further we can get towards the objectives of the sixth environmental action programme. i understand the concern expressed by those who want to see more community pollution abatement measures so that the strategy’s objective and air quality standards can be met. i think that there is a consensus between parliament, the council and the commission on the measures required. in fact, the commission has already undertaken much of the preparatory work, the fruits of which will be seen in the months to come. as a result, i do not believe that there is any need for an interinstitutional agreement in this area. on amendments 30 and 81, i understand the concerns of those who call for more flexibility in implementing the existing air quality legislation. however, one cannot have flexibility without weakening the legislation. i think the commission’s proposal of five years from the entry into force of the limit values strikes the right balance and the commission cannot support any further weakening beyond that. by way of explanation, according to the commission proposal, the time extension will go up to the end of 2009; according to the general approach of the council it will go up to 2010; and according to the rapporteurs’ amendment it will go up to 2013. so there is a difference on this point. it is four years plus two from the entry into force of the new directive. i understand this to be the proposal tabled before this plenary. on amendments 46 and 82, i should provide some further clarification about the daily limit value of pm10. this protects sensitive individuals against the impact from short-term exposure to particles in the air. it is different from the annual limit value, which provides protection to all from long-term exposure. one cannot simply substitute a more stringent annual limit value for the daily limit. this is what the health experts say. the key to ensuring compliance with both daily and annual limits is to undertake good and timely air quality assessments and to take the necessary steps to reduce emissions. it is clear that many authorities have not done this and now they have compliance problems. on amendments 49 and 50, the proposed concentration cap for pm2.5 is set at a level consistent with the stringency of the annual limit value for pm10, which the commission is not proposing to change. it is also useful to remember that the commission has proposed two ways of tackling pm2.5: the concentration cap of 25 micrograms per cubic metre and the exposure-reduction approach, where average levels in urban areas will be reduced over ten years. these methods combined will work to deliver health improvements. our modelling work, which underpins the thematic strategy and the air quality proposal, shows that greater health improvements can be obtained by allowing the member states to choose where to reduce pollution levels. this is the aim of the exposure reduction targets. this flexibility will be limited if the concentration cap forces member states to divert resources to ensure compliance in some specific hotspot regions, where few health improvements may be available. for public health, a general reduction in exposure is preferable. in summary, on the air quality legislative proposal, i am pleased to say that the commission can support 32 amendments, in part or in principle. i shall give parliament’s secretariat a list detailing the commission’s position on the amendments commission’s position on amendments by parliament: see annex..
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m. annex position of the commission
the next item is the report drawn up by mr gyula hegy on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the thematic strategy on the urban environment (a6-0233/2006).
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers for their positive and constructive contributions. this strategy is an important step towards more sustainable urban development. it is a response to the sixth environmental action programme and a key contribution to improving the everyday lives of europe’s citizens. i am pleased that parliament will soon adopt a resolution that recognises the importance of urban issues for citizens of the european union. i think, despite some differences on how to tackle this important challenge, the commission and parliament have a common view and understanding on the key issues, namely on substance and effects. while the commission believes that an approach based on guidance, incentives and the dissemination of best practice is the way to proceed, it will, however, monitor the effectiveness of the strategy and undertake reviews from time to time to see how it helps address this important challenge. the commission will report to parliament on the results of this monitoring. i hope that parliament can adopt a resolution supporting the strategy’s aims and objectives.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr markus ferber on behalf of the committee on budgetary control on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004, section i european parliament (n6-0027/2005 - c6-0357/2005 - 2005/2091 (dec)) (a6-0280/2006).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i want to thank mr ferber for his report, for being able to produce a competent and substantive report with very little information. the discharge debate has given rise to general reflections on the system of control and audit of the implementation of the budget of the european union. i regret to say that this is a system of control, but it is rather superficial, rather general. we're talking about the reliability of the books, we're talking about a certain number of errors, we're talking about an imperfect control system. we repeat these generalities, but we really do not have a full knowledge of how the eu budget is spent. cases like the one with the buildings in strasbourg, and before that the eurostat case and other irregularities of this kind are more likely to be discovered by the press than by the control system. we need to rethink this system to make it more concrete and more concrete, perhaps more like the system used by the national inspection offices, because they are more efficient than the eu system.
member of the commission. i would also like to express my satisfaction that we were able to put this to the vote in this year, the european year of mobility, because it is an important contribution. i agree that a recommendation is, of course, less than a more binding instrument. however, developments so far confirm that it is in this area that the many recommendations adopted so far mean moving towards specific targets, benchmarks and the implementation of agreements, so we see a large scale of activity in the bologna or copenhagen process. i would like to confirm that not only today, when the committee on culture and education is presenting a number of important reports, but also in these months, indeed years, the momentum in the field of culture and education is very strong. and as mrs hennicot-schoepges said, a common europe needs more culture and more education. i think we're going that way. once adopted, the recommendation will promote coordination, transparency and culture, evaluating feedback on how mobility works, what the conditions are in different countries and institutions. i would like to express my gratitude and at the same time my readiness for the next steps, especially for implementation.
there is no doubt that the increase in cohesion and solidarity of eu citizens depends on their mobility, mutual knowledge, understanding and acceptance of cultural diversity. the key to developing the mobility of eu citizens is language skills and the recognition of education systems and methods. the vocational training aspect is particularly important, as it brings us closer to the objectives of the lisbon strategy. taking this view of the problem , i propose to recommend to the eu member states that: . they create the conditions for teaching at least two national languages of the eu countries , alongside the mother tongue , at the secondary school level . 2. vocational training was based on economic self-governments and their organisations. these are the organisations that best know the needs of their country's economy and, through a system of cooperation developed between the chambers of the eu countries, will be able to co-create and co-responsible with their governments for a vocational training situation that is in line with the needs of the whole eu. 3. implement the dual system as soon as possible this means that 50% of the time is devoted to theory and 50% of the time to practical vocational training. the challenges of increasing mobility lie equally with the old eu-15 and the new eu countries. adequate financial support is also needed to achieve the objective of increasing the mobility and quality of the vocational training system in the eu.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. to talk about the european model of education and to implement it, we must first answer the question: what is it supposed to be and who and what is it supposed to serve? is it a model that supports the all-round development of the free man, his skills, his interests, or a model of the man of globalism, prepared for a practical life but without a creative field, a man impoverished in knowledge but able to carry out the tasks assigned to him? i'm in favor of the first model because it's the only one that gives people the possibility of fulfillment and the freedom of thought that leads to the creative enrichment of the world. and if so, then the education and upbringing of each person should be based on national and family traditions with the possibility of drawing freely from the cultures of other nations. we need a europe of a homeland, where every nation and every man and woman can feel secure. the attempt to build a globalist society with only one true culture, with the ability to communicate in only a few languages, is to hold back europe's intellectual development. and then there's economic growth. so the european model of education is one that will protect the traditions of all nations and use these traditions for the development and the good of man.
mr. chairman, please! the document in question deals with the european dimension in education or with the integration of european content in education. however, these terms are not defined. there's a reference to shared history and cultural heritage, but again, no definition. common history is mostly wars between each other, but what is common cultural heritage? let's sum it up. what positive values do we share? when we pause to ask this question, we no doubt recognize that we are bound together by greek culture, roman law and christian ethics. everything european grows from these fundamental foundations, they define europe. if that is the case, we should promote the teaching of the classical languages, greek and latin, and we should also promote the teaching of the contribution of christianity to the norms of europe: to art, to architecture, to our way of life, and in particular to family and social life. but unfortunately, this house is trying to erase everything christian from its documents. moreover, it promotes clearly anti-christian attitudes. when the polish minister of education banned the council of europe's "compass" textbook, which recommended the promotion of homosexuality in schools, there was a stir here, claiming that european values were being rejected. without a definition of the european dimension, european values, european content, this document is empty and useless.
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to congratulate mr. mann on an interesting report. the establishment of a common framework of qualifications once and for all in the european union and, therefore, the elimination of the problem of the recognition of diplomas and certificates is the basis for student and worker mobility, which is one of the main principles of a common europe. the work done in bologna, barcelona, copenhagen and maastricht must be continued and it must be ensured as soon as possible that workers from another eu country will never again hear the administration reply that there is work but their diploma is invalid. the european qualifications framework will raise the quality of education in all eu countries, help meet the challenges of globalisation and increase competitiveness in the labour market. but there is another important psychological aspect to this question - that to recognize someone's qualifications as attested by a professional certificate or an academic degree is to respect the educational hardship of the person behind it. on the contrary, the non-recognition of the diploma as equivalent in another member state would be discriminatory and prejudicial to the person concerned. make no mistake, the european qualifications framework is not a simple matter. often universities or other training centres within a single country cannot reach agreement with each other, let alone across the union. the decision on this issue must therefore be political, eu-wide and less academic. the diploma of a polish bricklayer, for example, must be recognised in germany and the german diploma in poland. a degree in psychology from oxford must be recognized everywhere, just as a degree in psychology from some less reputable university in a smaller country cannot be questioned by the local psychological community. in belgium, for example, there is no competent authority to assess the value of a polish certificate as a bricklayer or painter and the person cannot work in the profession in question. the issue of the european qualifications framework is particularly important for the citizens of the new member states, who will for a long time to come be more likely to offer their professional qualifications in another eu country than capital investments, which already have their common denominator - the euro.
mr. chairman, please! the commission's white paper on public utilities is certainly a document needed to shape the common market. further work would need to clarify the concept of these services and the way they are provided, which is currently largely linked to the solutions developed in the country and national legislation, which should be taken into account. the inclusion of these services in common european rules can only take place as the service system in the union is improved. further action should increase legal certainty for public services and the protection of consumer interests. the rapkay report, for which i would like to thank you, clearly sets out the legal situation and the way forward. we have to use it.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his good report and thank him for his far-reaching willingness to negotiate and discuss. the rapporteur's approach makes this report a balanced compromise between the different policy options. this report is a very important step towards defining the place of public utilities in the legal order. it should be clearly emphasised that a framework directive on public utilities is not necessary in the union legislation. the issue of such services should be dealt with in a sectoral rather than a general manner. it should be left to the member states to define what, by reason of their regional characteristics, is a public service and what is not. however, this right may not be used by member states to take action which is incompatible with the treaty, in particular as regards the principles of free competition, state aid or public procurement. the member states should therefore have the right to define the public service in their territory, but they should not abuse it, as is very often the case. in fact, public services are often used as an argument to protect the public interest against the rules of the internal market. however, in my view, no framework directive will be a good solution for the european economy or for consumers, the citizens of the union, and we should approach the problem in a sectoral way.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it's true, the report on turkey is cold in many places, but that's what makes it real. after more than 40 years, the applicant country is at odds with its neighbours, including the eu member states. we also have the right and the duty to call for not only an explanation of the historical wrongs but also to redress the worsening situation of the violation of the rights of the christian minority in turkey. this minority has no one but us to take care of it. it is not possible to omit the scandalous statements made by representatives of the turkish government in connection with the lecture of benedict xvi in regensburg. cocktailing the extreme sections of muslim opinion is pushing this government two steps back. still, we shouldn't turn our backs on turkey. i am sure, however, that any mutual economic and political benefits of cooperation will be achieved on the basis of forms of cooperation other than membership. and it should be noted that we still have a huge imbalance in thinking about future expansions. we have a politically advanced turkish process and a completely cold ukrainian process. and it's not ukraine that has 250 lost cases a year before the human rights court. it's not the ukrainians who are seeking asylum in droves. it is not ukraine that is keeping its neighbourhood in tension with its current and historical disputes. as long as we maintain this imbalance in political relations, we will continue to uphold the stalinist sentences that were imposed on ukraine in communist russia 60 years ago. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! europe has a long history of contact with turkey, and unfortunately, it is almost entirely a history of pain and injury. it's a history of continuous invasions, wars, massacres, occupation of southern and central europe -- that's what europeans have experienced for centuries. today, turkey has changed little, causing fear among its neighbors. turkey continues to apply an illegal blockade to armenia, threatens greece by questioning its right to determine the extent of its territorial waters, discriminates against the kurds and finally turkey does not recognise the full independence of cyprus, which is a member of the european union. this is ridiculous. turkey is a threat to stability in the region, and we are blindly negotiating membership with that country in our structures. turkey also does not respect the values that are indispensable for us, it violates and violates human rights and freedoms and restricts their exercise, it persecutes political opposition, including the family of leyla zana winner of the european parliament's sakharov prize, it restricts religious freedom, which resulted in the murder of an italian missionary. this is the truth about turkey. i do not agree that turkey can play the role of a bridge between europe and the islamic world, on the contrary, it can become an open door for terrorism. turkey is a world that is culturally and civilisationally alien to us. we must realise this and ask ourselves: quo vadis, europe? is the union to be european or eurasian? turkey's accession to the european union will set a dangerous precedent that will be the end of europe as we know it. the accession negotiations with turkey should be concluded as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, please! our discussion on turkey is of course much more critical and therefore much more open than the previous one, but it should also be borne in mind that we should ask ourselves what our primary interest is. turkey is not suited to the european union today in all the basic criteria, and we do not need to repeat them. we have spoken here of the cyprus problem, the issue of respect for human and civil rights, religious issues, the armenian issue, but the fundamental interest of the european union is that countries such as turkey and ukraine should come closer to the union, and here on this path we can detect a certain falsehood on our part - on the part of the european union - because we do not always say openly that the entry of large countries such as turkey means the end of certain policies, especially the economic, structural and agricultural policies of the european union. we should be open about the implications of how such large countries can function in the european union, because such a delicate falsehood is felt by our partners like turkey.
mr. chairman, please! the failure of turkey's integration into the european union will deepen the mistrust between the west and the islamic world, strengthen fundamentalist tendencies, and revive the dark scenarios of a clash of civilizations. turkey should make the necessary reforms and also face its own history as other european nations have done and are doing. but we cannot in the european parliament put forward preconditions of a historical and moral nature in relation to turkey if such preconditions have not been put forward for other countries in the process of joining the european union. we have a special political responsibility. i would like to draw your attention to the recent survey of public opinion and european elites conducted by the german marshall fund of the united states. according to the study, "turkey is increasingly cool to the united states and europe, and warmer to iran". at the same time (...) young turks are warmer than their average compatriot about both the united states and the european union. let us not waste this pro-european potential in europe!
mr. chairman, please! the accession negotiations with turkey should be continued. turkey should be treated like any other country with which previous negotiations have been conducted. the process of harmonising turkish law with european law is helping the country to modernise, demopolise its economy and move closer to the core values on which the european union is based. turkey is a country that has made an extremely difficult effort to separate islam from the structures of government. this secular nature of the muslim country is something that is worth supporting in a world where the extreme, fanatical face of islam is increasingly being revealed. however, turkey must know that it cannot count on any preferential treatment. it cannot expect the union to relax the norms, the laws, the requirements of the european treaties vis-à-vis ankara. i would like to draw particular attention to civil liberties and freedoms. it is not enough to change the provisions of the codes and laws. the concern for civil liberties, freedom of speech, freedom of religious worship must be a constant practice of the administration and the judiciary. we'll be judging progress in this area on the facts. ankara must know and not be offended that we will ask, evaluate, check how the rights of the kurdish minority are respected, whether it has the same rights that should be enjoyed by any ethnic minority in the european union, for example the right to have schools in its own language at every level from preschool onwards. the anti-terrorism law that has been introduced cannot be used to restrict civil liberties and discriminate against minorities. the union will also look at the freedoms enjoyed by christian denominations which are still unable to reopen a seminary that has been closed for years. without the free functioning of christian schools, it will be impossible for turkey to join the european union. and lastly, we are discussing turkey, but remember that it is equally important for europe to open association negotiations with ukraine in the future.
the commission's vice-president the national programmes, mr president, will be examined by the directorate-general for transport and myself and we will have the opportunity, in these negotiations with france and spain, to recall the priorities. there is no question of us spreading european money across all the projects without having a meaningful participation by the member states in our priorities. so, in this negotiation, i think we will have some means of persuasion. and then i think we can quite easily remind the member states of the extreme importance of these corridors, which will completely change transport in europe, both passenger and freight. i therefore believe that we should not take a completely negative and overly pessimistic view of these problems. it is true that we will have to persuade, but once again i intend, with the support of parliament, to take action to advance these projects which have been, i repeat, defined by the member states themselves.
the commission's vice-president the commission has already replied to a written question. member states are not required to provide information on the handling of air passenger complaints or on the penalties imposed on air carriers. but of course the commission is organising regular meetings with the national control bodies in order to harmonise the application of the regulation and to strengthen contacts between these bodies so that they can share data relating to the handling of complaints. in this context, the commission is working closely with the member states to develop a guide to the interpretation of the provisions of the regulation. i would remind you that this is regulation (ec) no 261/2004. i will be presenting a communication to the european parliament and the council in january 2007 on the operation of this regulation and its application. the commission has published a call for tenders to select an external consultant to collect quantitative and qualitative information on the application of this regulation. the commission wishes to examine in particular the situation with regard to denied boarding, cancellations, delays and the application of the regulation in these cases. the results of this study will be incorporated into my report. i should like to say, mr president, that the commission has registered more than 5 500 correspondence relating to air passenger rights. these letters are carefully processed. they can help us to detect certain trends. the whole of this monitoring exercise will be used in the context of infringement procedures which the commission will launch against member states which do not respect their obligations towards citizens and their rights as air passengers. but before such proceedings can be initiated, sufficient evidence must be available. during the 18 months of implementation of this regulation, the commission will have collected a critical mass of information and will be able to act at the appropriate time. i thank you for your question because i am very interested in seeing these passenger rights become a reality in the european area.
the commission's vice-president the commission held three meetings with the national inspection bodies - on 19 may 2005, 17 february 2006 and, most recently, 14 september 2006 - in order to strengthen coordination between the different member states and to harmonise the application of the provisions of the regulation concerned. in the meantime we have drawn up an information document in the form of questions and answers which will facilitate the daily processing of the national control bodies. this document was circulated during july 2006. i told you, mr president, that with this critical mass of information i could, in view of the communication i am going to make to parliament, propose a number of improvements to ensure the proper application of the new law we have created for the benefit of passengers. i repeat, the directorate-general for transport has processed 5623 correspondences, which already allows us to detect certain trends. i should like to say, for example, that we have noted with satisfaction a clear decline in the practice of over-reservation. but you're right, the incidents that happened this summer are also worth considering. i hope that when i have a really comprehensive view of things, i can come before this parliament and report to it both on the improvements that have been made and also on what we still have to do to ensure that these new rules are actually applied. i thank you for asking this question, which also encourages me to be more vigilant.
the commission's vice-president yes, madam member, i said that we would ask an audit body to take stock of denied boarding, cancellations and delays, the application of the regulation by airlines and national authorities and the degree of independence of the national control bodies of the national civil aviation authorities. you're absolutely right. it is not enough for passengers to have rights, but it is also necessary for airlines and national authorities to be able to make those rights known to the people concerned. the study will also be carried out in collaboration with airlines, consumer and passenger associations and national authorities. i personally believe that in the light of this study we will be able to ensure much better in the future that passengers are informed, which is indeed a necessary condition for enforcing these new rules.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the final adoption of the common position of the european institutions on the progress programme - an employment and social solidarity programme - should be considered as a very important step towards the establishment and implementation of a coherent and transparent social policy of the european union and its transposition into the social policies of the member states. progress not only simplifies and organises the individual elements of this policy, but integrates them into a coherent whole. this is what has been lacking and this will be the main outcome of our joint debate. the division of the programme into five sections is rational and fair. employment is the number one challenge facing the european union, its decision-makers and its citizens. social protection and social inclusion could be considered as two separate fields, but i think they are rightly placed in the same section, because social protection is a kind of prerequisite for successful social inclusion. working conditions complement policies aimed at improving employment not only in terms of quantity but also in terms of quality. the fight against discrimination and diversity is the practical implementation of the principle of positive tolerance and pluralism which should be and seems to be the hallmark of the european union, and the final implementation of effective gender equality is the implementation of a principle already adopted by the treaty of rome but which has so far been insufficiently implemented. two points: firstly, in the allocation of funds, employment, as the main challenge, deserves priority treatment. gender equality is as important as the fight against discrimination and diversity, and the social dialogue is not mentioned much, since without it progress cannot be achieved. as regards access to the programme, it is appropriate to list the institutions and organisations authorised to do so. progress will contribute substantially to the achievement of the social agenda.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i support all the actions of the european institutions to promote employment growth and social solidarity, in particular the new community programme progress which is now under discussion. i hope that this programme will not become another inefficient instrument that will devour our common money, but will contribute directly to changing the difficult situation in this area in many countries of the european union. i want to emphasise that the stakes in this game are to maintain the european social model in the face of the demographic decline that is taking place across europe. the scandinavian countries are a good example of how this model can be implemented while maintaining a decent level of economic growth. of course, the key to their success is their high employment rate, which for both men and women is usually above 70%. meanwhile, as we know, for most countries in the european union, these rates are significantly lower. in poland, for example, the employment rate for men is only 51% and for women only 46%. it is therefore clear that support for employment, especially in the new member states, is absolutely necessary. the problem of poverty and social exclusion is a very important one, because it cannot be that in the heart of europe - one of the richest parts of the world - people live below the social or even biological minimum. in my country, poland, over 10% of the population lives below the poverty line. i hope that progress will help to improve this situation. a prosperous europe should be much more solidarity-oriented towards these social groups, which are in a very difficult material situation.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the implementation of the lisbon strategy is a very ambitious goal set for the member states by the leaders of the european union. how ambitious is already shown by the different experiences in the individual countries, for example in the area of employment. we know of examples where employment levels are approaching the target figures, which - i would like to remind you of them - are 70% for men, 60% for women, 50% for the 55-64 age group. however, there are countries, particularly among the new members of the european union, where the objectives of the strategy are still very far from being achieved. in this context, i would like to welcome once again the initiative to establish a new community programme for employment and social solidarity, progress. as a member of the ppe-de group, i would like to emphasize that my group has been in favour of increasing the appropriations for the specific areas of activity, while reducing the 10% of the reserve provided for in the draft programme, since the beginning of its work in the committee on employment and social affairs. in particular, the ppe-de has called for a reduction in the level of own contribution by the beneficiaries and we therefore welcome the increase in the progress programme to over eur 743 million, which has already been happily agreed in the interinstitutional agreement and is included in the financial perspective for 2007-13. finally, i am pleased to note that the council's common position contains most of the amendments tabled by the european parliament. this is particularly welcome in the context of better use of the funds for the professional activation of women and disabled people. low levels of employment, especially among disabled people, are a particular problem in my country and i hope that progress will help to change this situation over the next seven years.
mr. chairman, please! since the decision to create a single european currency was taken in the maastricht treaty, the risks involved have also had to be taken into account. counterfeits have been around as long as man has known the value of counterfeit goods. the fight against counterfeiting is crucial to citizens' confidence in the single currency, and the perykles programme was set up to protect the euro. it is now essential that community legislation ensures that the extension of the programme is linked appropriately to the date of the introduction of the euro in the new member states and to the issue of the second series of euro banknotes. it is important that in this important process, there should be no duplication of powers and that all actions taken jointly by the various institutions should be complementary and consistent. it seems to me appropriate that the commission and europol should jointly assess newly launched projects to be financed under the perykles programme, in cooperation with each other, for this very purpose.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, while taking into account the current diversity of national judicial systems, it is highly desirable to promote mutual recognition of judgments between the european union member states. as already indicated by the tampere european council, the mutual recognition principle is the cornerstone of judicial cooperation in both civil and criminal matters. that being so, it is of the utmost importance to lay down an appropriate legal basis, so that a conviction handed down in one member state can be taken into account in new criminal proceedings against the same person concerning different facts in other member states. the commission proposal for a framework decision should be approved as amended. the object of the mutual recognition principle is to confer the same validity and the same effect on convictions handed down in other member states as on previous national convictions. it should be explicitly stated that the member state is not required to enforce the conviction handed down in another member state, but just to draw the appropriate conclusions from the earlier case in the new proceedings. furthermore, the effects of previous convictions will still be governed by national laws in each member state. a principle of assimilation of judgments given in other member states to national convictions should be established, still leaving it to national legislation to draw the appropriate conclusions from the principle. however, i have to consider it necessary for previous sentences to be taken into account, provided that their weight in the other evaluation is equal to the sentence issued by the member state in which proceedings have been opened. moreover, in the case of criminal proceedings in the member state, a firm conviction related to acts not punishable in that member state must not be taken into account.
mr. chairman, please! the framework decision we are debating today is extremely important in terms of assimilation combined with the harmonization of the law. i share the rapporteur's view that the only criterion for deciding whether and to what extent previous convictions handed down abroad should be given legal effect is national law. but we must not forget the basic principles of ne bis in idem, limitation or amnesty, or removal from the national criminal register. i therefore think that article 4 should be retained. it should also be stressed that we cannot allow judgments handed down abroad for acts which are not punishable in that member state to be taken into account in criminal proceedings in a member state. like the rapporteur, i believe that the best place for the provisions of article 6 is the proposal for a council framework decision on the organisation of the exchange of information from the register of convicted persons between member states and the contents thereof.
member of the commission. mr president, let me start by saying, on behalf of commissioner špidla and myself, that we very much welcome the report on strategic guidelines for cohesion adopted by parliament’s committee on regional development on 11 september. in particular i should like to thank mrs krehl for her hard work in drafting the report and also for the good cooperation we have enjoyed over the past year on the dossier. i have been grateful for the support and ideas of the committee on regional development and parliament during this period on what is perhaps the most important and innovative part of the new cohesion policy for 2007-2013. through the guidelines we are seeking to ensure that community priorities are more fully integrated into national and regional development programmes supported by the union. the guidelines seek to provide a clear and consistent approach in support of growth and jobs under the renewed lisbon strategy. i believe that the guidelines have benefited considerably from parliament’s contribution. i would draw your attention to the recitals that have been added to the document since parliament produced its report last may. these are important in the sense that they reveal the political orientation that lies behind the guidelines. the recitals draw heavily on the suggestions in the report drafted by mrs krehl. for example, they draw attention to the importance of partnership (recital 16), to the contribution of infrastructure to convergence (recital 11), to equality of opportunity and the fight against discrimination (recital 15), to the importance of development that is sustainable in environmental terms (recital 14), to territorial cohesion and to the urban dimension (recital 12). it is worth noting that in adopting these recitals the council and the member states are in effect writing a memo to themselves on how the next programmes should be run. this is clearly very important for us as we look forward to the programme negotiations. in addition to the recitals, the text of the guidelines has been reinforced in key areas of importance to parliament. in particular we have given more attention to territorial cohesion. this includes stronger wording on the urban question. we have also developed the text on the three initiatives – jasper, jeremy and jessica – which you have supported strongly. this should, among other things, make a contribution to developing the use of public/private partnerships in our programmes, which is one of the recommendations of your report on the guidelines. there are many other areas where i think you will find that the commission has tried to accommodate parliament’s wishes. i do not need to summarise once again the content of the document, but perhaps it would be worthwhile to remind ourselves of the vision of the new cohesion policy, which the strategic guidelines can help us to achieve. this vision is centred around economic development, which is increasingly being driven by local and regional resources, be it innovative small and medium-sized enterprises, local human skills or academic institutions. this vision is about developing our unique system of multilevel governance by taking policy closer to the local and regional levels, closer to the people and closer to the place where growth and jobs are created. i know that some of you expressed a wish to have more debate on strategic guidelines, so i am looking forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would first of all like to congratulate mrs krehl on her report and on the efforts she has made to formulate the european parliament's position. the parliament's report deals with the community's strategic guidelines and is a very good example of interinstitutional cooperation. the european parliament, through the work of its committee on regional development, has tried to formulate its expectations during the legislative process and today it can be said that they have been almost fully taken into account. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the strategic guidelines can be said to provide an internally coherent concept of the programme base for the implementation of cohesion policy by the member states. it is to be hoped that the individual member states will be willing to implement the guidelines which they themselves have previously accepted by a council decision. the use of the guideline on strengthening the role of cities, both in the programming process and in the implementation of integrated regeneration programmes, will be an indicator of the determination of governments. the strategic guidelines are essential for the launch of the 2007-2013 cohesion policy implementation system and i therefore believe that the proposal presented, taking into account the suggestions of the european parliament, should be supported by parliament.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i congratulate congresswoman krehl on her work. today we were discussing in parliament the accession of romania and bulgaria to the community. with reference to this enlargement, i would like to emphasise the statement in the preamble to the council decision. it reads: 'enlargement to 25 member states is an unprecedented opportunity to strengthen both the union's economic competitiveness and its internal cohesion'. of course, it must be borne in mind that at the moment we still have significant disparities in the level of wealth and development of the various regions. however, even now, just 28 months after the enlargement of the union to include 10 new countries, even the poorest areas are seeing a significant acceleration, with relatively high growth rates. i say this as a resident of one of those regions, the podkarpacie, in southeastern poland. the word "coherence" does not mean uniformity or uniformity, but it describes a state in which a structure maintains its immanent integrity without internal tensions and tendencies to break. this is how i see the cohesion policy of the european union. the success of the actions undertaken within the framework of the solidarity of the states and peoples making up our community will be all the greater and all the more rapid the greater the economic stability on a macroeconomic scale, the more effectively the necessary structural changes will be carried out. it is therefore necessary to define cohesion principles for the union as a whole and to correlate them with the strategic frameworks of reference of the individual countries. it is therefore good that, for the period 2007-13, cohesion policy will focus on financial support for the least developed territories, with a focus on economic growth and employment growth. i am pleased to note the emphasis on the territorial dimension of cohesion policy, which is intended to balance the development of urban and rural areas and areas with special needs. the rational use of financial instruments will be of great importance - hence the importance of the mid-term review. our european action must be characterised by foresight. i therefore believe that there is a need to re-launch the lisbon strategy. innovation in all possible fields, building an economy on knowledge and education, supporting entrepreneurship, no matter how big the companies are, will ensure success. but we must remember that everything we do must be an action that is directed at the individual, the family, the local and regional community, the state and the community as a whole. this also applies to disabled people. it is therefore very important to recognise the demographic aspect of cohesion policy.
mr. chairman, please! the community strategic guidelines on cohesion are one of the most important documents for programming the expenditure of the structural funds in the member states of the european union. this document sets out the main priorities for countries that will apply for cohesion policy assistance in the period 2007-13. the guidelines provide a basis for the development of a national strategic reference framework for each country, setting out national development priorities. the guidelines in question focus future cohesion policy on improving competitiveness, which supports growth and jobs. to achieve this, the union must focus on knowledge, innovation and investment in human capital, helping to close the development gap between regions. the key challenge is to use the funds available effectively, including by supporting public-private partnerships, especially at local level. it is also very important to pay particular attention to the urban dimension, as cities and urban agglomerations are the ones most often confronted with problems such as crime, social exclusion, environmental pollution and congestion. as the european parliament, we should be satisfied with the shape of the community's strategic guidelines. it remains to be hoped that the member states will be able to implement cohesion policy effectively within this framework. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs constance krehl, on a very well-written document.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to bring up the issue of so-called forced labor camps in this debate. one such camp was discovered a few months ago in southern italy, where foreign workers, mostly poles, were forced to work by an international criminal gang, killing those who tried to escape. on this occasion, i would like to pay tribute to the act of an italian woman who, spontaneously, a poor elderly woman, takes care of the grave of an unnamed worker who was murdered there. the italian and polish press have reported on this situation and i would like to express my deep respect for this woman. but the problem is really very serious. there may be more of these situations, it's not just this one camp that's been discovered, but there are many press signals that similar situations may be occurring in other countries as well, and therefore we should urgently address this.
mr. chairman, please! in the context of problems related to the immigration process, the interpellation under consideration today draws attention, among other things, to the lack of mutual trust between the member states of the union. this mistrust and suspicion is automatically transferred to third countries, in particular the united states, which is de facto europe's natural ally in the fight against terrorism. the obstacle to clear regulation in these areas is precisely the attitude that effectively hinders or even excludes effective cooperation. it is difficult to agree with the view expressed today by commissioner frattini that the protection of fundamental rights and the fight against terrorism should go hand in hand. i believe that for the sake of the majority of european citizens, we should seriously consider redefining fundamental rights in the direction of limiting them in order to counter terrorist acts more effectively and quickly. this is for obvious security reasons.
mr. foreseeing one! last sunday, little switzerland voted for the form of immigration that best suits the needs of the country and its citizens. as commissioner frattini has mentioned, the immigration policies of australia and the united states are also worthy of imitation. the european union, on the other hand, has for years pursued an overly ambitious immigration policy and betrayed the interests of its own citizens. our security, justice and immigration policies should strengthen development aid for africa, eliminate the influx of muslims and, if necessary, if the demographic situation or the labour market so dictate, open the door to the christian population of eastern europe from countries such as belarus, ukraine, georgia, armenia and russia, which do not threaten the identity of our civilisation.
mr. chairman, please! minister rajamäki said that new dates for the accession of new countries to sis ii, and thus new dates for the abolition of internal borders, would be set by the end of the year. we do not know when this will happen, but the delay is not due to delays in the new member states. poland will be ready for the operational deployment of sis ii as early as march 2007. it's the same with other new countries. commissioner, minister, how reliable is the commission in providing citizens with such fundamental goods as full freedom of movement within the european union? how can the commission, which is shouting 'europe of the people' and 'europe of results', stop the process of full enlargement of the schengen area and delay it beyond the deadline agreed by the european council next year, for allegedly technical reasons? should specialists from the new member states be used to prepare the construction of the central hub on time? we have the best computer scientists and programmers to do this, otherwise the responsibility for the lack of professionalism will fall on the commission and directly on you, commissioner. i'm not talking about the financial, technical, political and social implications of this decision. parliament is monitoring and will monitor the commission's progress in this area and any costs resulting from delays. therefore, before making a final decision on the delay, please analyse the balance of benefits and losses in this respect. i would like to congratulate the council on reaching a compromise on the sis ii legislative package. however, we still need strong leadership from the council to expose alleged technical reasons as a pretext for masking the lack of political will of some member states, because it is the sis ii system that creates the technological possibilities, indeed the conditions, for a common immigration policy to become a common responsibility of all member states, and not just those most affected by illegal immigration and terrorism. otherwise we will never be able to cope with the wave of immigration and terrorism.
mr. president, lampedusa is not just an italian problem. my country, poland, does not have the immigration problem that spain, italy, malta, greece or cyprus have today, but waves of illegal immigrants can happen to any of us. so immigration has no local or regional dimension. this is a european problem and it must be solved at european level. the union must develop a common, coherent immigration policy based on majority decisions, and if this policy is to be effective, it is time to end it with unanimity in the council and put this policy in the first pillar. and finally, the frontex case, which is in my country, in warsaw. poland has the longest external border of the european union and, ironically, at the moment, citizens of our country cannot move freely throughout the union because sis ii is not ready. i ask you, commissioner, will you be able to tell us when the citizens of the new member states will be able to move freely throughout the union, in time for the celebrations of the union's 50th anniversary in march 2007?
mr president, mr minister, i have to go. since the tampere summit in 1999, it has become clear that we need a common approach to migration, especially economic migration, within the union. today, with the rising tide of illegal immigration and the terrifying images from the canary islands, we are more aware than ever that without a common european migration policy we are not able to tackle this problem effectively. but immigration should not be seen as a threat only. in the face of europe's apparent demographic crisis, a good management of migration could be the answer to the negative effects of ageing societies. and let me just remind you that with current migration trends, the number of people employed in the european union is projected to decline by about 20 million between 2010 and 2030. the major regions of the world have long been competing with each other to attract well-educated immigrants, and the union cannot remain passive. however, the absence of a community migration policy increases the likelihood of immigrants circumventing national regulations. in response to these practices, we see decisions by individual countries to legalize illegal immigrants en masse. this was the case recently in socialist-ruled spain. such steps do not solve the problem but exacerbate it, as they serve as an argument for intermediaries to smuggle more groups into europe. i would like to take this opportunity to counter the view expressed at the beginning of this debate by mr rajamäki, minister for development, on the positive impact of development policy on reducing the wave of migration, especially from africa. i don't believe, minister, in the efficacy of such thinking. while not denying the need to strengthen development policy, i support the position of commissioner frattini, namely to take a firm stance against illegal immigration and to give priority to the community's management of economic migration. at the same time, i would like to call for the work on the draft directive on admission and the directive on return procedures to countries of origin to be accelerated.
mr. president, darfur is a humanitarian disaster. the tragedy in this region has reached a critical moment and requires our utmost attention and swift action. these words were spoken a few days ago by the un secretary-general kofi annan. it is hard to disagree with that statement. the war, which has killed 300,000 people and sent more than 2.5 million to the streets, has been raging on the world's watch since 2003. in recent weeks, humanitarian organizations working in sudan have been sounding the alarm. 3 million people in darfur are dependent on international humanitarian aid - food, medical aid and shelter. the escalation of conflict in the region makes it almost impossible to provide such aid. twelve aid workers have been killed in darfur since may 2006 alone. that's more than i've seen in the last two years. it is obvious that the african union, which is to remain in the region until the end of the year, cannot stop this war on its own. remember, this 7,000-strong, poorly equipped and underfunded contingent operates in an area the size of france. even if it is increased by another 4,000 troops, it is not able to help the millions of civilians attacked in the region, provide security for humanitarian organizations and protect refugees. there is speculation about various scenarios for resolving the conflict, from the presence of un forces in the region, to extensive un assistance to the african union in the logistical and material sense, to nato involvement in conflict prevention. one thing is clear to me: the african countries and their leaders, who have experience in the region, great insight and established contacts, should be much more involved in solving this urgent problem. we should therefore encourage our african partners to become more involved in resolving this conflict.
mr. chairman, please! for the past three years, we have witnessed crimes against humanity on the territory of sudan: genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing. the sudanese state is not fulfilling the basic mission of any state: to ensure the security of the people of the territory. we're looking at it pretty much helplessly. from the heights of brussels and strasbourg, we look at what is happening on the territory of this country, even though the european union was created out of a moral and political protest against these kinds of crimes. after all, each successive wave of enlargement has been underpinned by the cry: never again, never again crimes against humanity, never again ethnic cleansing, never again genocide! i have not seen in the speeches of the representatives of the institutions of the european union today that determination that the european union can do everything to stop the wave of murders on the territory of this country. what do you want me to do? in the coming weeks, the eu should focus on putting effective pressure on the khartoum government to allow un peacekeepers to be stationed in sudan. if this does not happen, if the khartoum government still does not agree to the deployment of the un peacekeeping mission, the logistical and material assistance to the au military mission in sudan should be further expanded, and if this does not help what is happening in the territory of sudan consider appropriate action by nato forces so that the au military mission can ensure peace and security in the territory of sudan.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr karim, and the international trade committee, for the excellent work that has been done. the report is comprehensive, addressing almost all possible aspects of eu-india economic and trade relations. this report is also timely, as it takes place ahead of the forthcoming eu-india summit in helsinki on 13 october 2006, and we will take its recommendations into consideration. our cooperation with india is manifold and it is difficult to address it exhaustively in this speech. therefore, i will point to some of the main features that respond to your concerns and also update the house in more detail on the trade and investment issues. generally, our cooperation is good and is making progress. regarding the environment, for instance, last year india hosted the first eu-india forum on waste management, which was followed by various visits by and meetings of the working party on that issue. the holding of the second environment forum is under discussion. regarding employment and social issues, the commission and the indian labour minister agreed in a bilateral meeting a work programme for 2006 and 2007 based on the joint action plan. a draft memorandum of understanding is to be signed, or initialled, at the forthcoming helsinki summit. more broadly, following a bilateral meeting between commissioner almunia and the indian finance minister, the launch of regular macroeconomic dialogue has been proposed. the business side has not been forgotten and thanks to commissioner mandelson, who pushed forward the idea with his counterpart trade minister nath, the eu-india ceo round table, allowing active business-to-business dialogue, is now ready to be launched at the business summit on 12 october 2006. our development cooperation is concentrated on sector support for elementary education, health and family welfare. poverty alleviation has been the central objective in all projects. the country strategy paper (csp) for 2007 to 2013 reaffirms that commitment with an approximately 65 to 70% allocation to the health and education sectors. encouragingly, our state partnership programmes with rajasthan and chhattisgarh, amounting to a total contribution of eur 160 million towards supporting water management, education and health, have been signed and can now be implemented. turning to trade and investment relations with india, i welcome the fact that the conclusions of the report adopted by the international trade committee fully support the commission's approach. more specifically, the committee has called on the european union to enter into a free trade agreement (fta) with india. india is keen to launch a free trade agreement with the european union as soon as possible. this has been the indian position for a long time, pushed by prime minister singh himself. i welcome the committee's first comment that negotiations on the doha development agenda (dda) are not incompatible with bilateral wto-plus negotiations. the european union seeks to build on and complement its commitment to the multilateral wto trading system with a new generation of bilateral ftas, in particular with key growing markets in asia. the european union continues to see the wto as the fundamental platform on which to build global liberalisation. there will be no retreat from multilateralism. an eu-india fta can build on wto multilateral liberalisation by addressing areas, such as trade and services, public procurement markets, competition policy and regulatory harmonisation, that are related directly to eu trading strengths not yet fully addressed by wto rules or standards. we have made sure that the economic case for an eu-india fta is watertight and that there is a similar level of understanding and ambition on india's part, which is necessary for any negotiation to work. to that end, i welcome the committee's support for the high level trade group's work. on 19 september 2006, the high level trade group finalised its report to the eu-india summit on 13 october 2006, which recommended that an expanded-trade partnership be developed through the negotiation of a broad-based trade and investment agreement. the summit will recommend that both eu and india move towards negotiations for such an agreement. although we will not be launching an fta at the summit, we will, however, be making positive signals that we are heading in that direction. we do not just want to launch but to prepare the ground for successful negotiations. this may mean further work on some of the more sensitive issues after the summit, so that we improve understanding of each other’s expectations and possibilities for movement. accordingly, i share the committee’s views that there is a need to deepen discussion on services negotiations, intellectual property rights and public procurement. finally, i also share the committee’s concern about the low level of intra-regional trade in the south asian association for regional cooperation and its recommendation to saarc to review opportunities to expand trade and investment in the region. we are following closely the problem of pakistan’s non-implementation of schedules under the south asia free trade agreement and addressing this informally with this country.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on development. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to congratulate mr karim on his very successful report on india. this report is complex, as is the complexity of presenting the eu's economic, trade and cooperation relations with india, while also highlighting the challenges facing the country. i think the rapporteur has dealt with this problem very well. while acknowledging the importance of economic and financial issues in the report, i would like to thank the rapporteur in particular for supporting the opinion of the committee on development and for looking at india not only from the perspective of a country with dynamic economic development and great potential, an important trading and economic partner of europe, but also from the perspective of a country with an extraordinary complexity of social structures, a high degree of inequality both in the level of development and in the distribution of the benefits achieved. at the same time, india is a country that faces serious problems typical of developing countries, such as poverty and illiteracy. as i stressed in my opinion to the development committee, the achievement of the millennium development goals and the fight against poverty must remain at the heart of the eu-india strategic partnership. i would like to draw attention to two issues of importance for development policy in the eu-india relationship. in india, where economic growth has averaged 6 percent per year for the past 10 years, nearly 30 percent of the population, or 400 million people, still live below the poverty line on less than a dollar a day, and the illiteracy rate is close to 40 percent. it is essential that economic and trade cooperation between the european union and india leads to reversing these bad trends and improving the situation of the poorest sections of society and focuses on promoting best practices from those regions that are achieving the highest economic growth, as well as deepening cooperation in education and health.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this document is typically economic in nature, but its message is broader for both major partners, i.e. political, social, educational, scientific and, above all, development. apart from minor differences between the groups, we have reached common understandings, often compromises, and india can read from this resolution that all of europe is united in its desire to cooperate with this country, rich in history and economic opportunities. of course, from our perspective we clearly raise the problems that indians have faced, but according to european standards, they should be said out loud and solved gradually, and this is because for good cooperation between businesses, citizens, you need a community of values and goals, otherwise we will only have declarations signed by governments and politicians, and in this house many of them have been created without any consequences. we want real cooperation, also drawing on the experience gained between europe - mainly the uk - and india, but for now it is to be a partnership par excellence, untouched by any echo of the past (one can assume that it is colonial). this document will be the basis and the bridge for a healthy exchange, fruitful for both partners. as shadow rapporteur, i propose that this document be adopted in its present form.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. by 2015, according to economic analysts, the asian tiger, india, will become the fourth world power. india will become a major trade counterweight to china. the pace of growth of the indian economy in the first quarter of this year accelerated to over 9%. india's transition from developing country to developed country is a clear indication that india is poised to become the leader in asia, overtaking china. that's why our trade relations with that country should be very important to us. the european union is already india's largest trading partner. trade with the union member states accounts for more than 22% of indian exports. indian industry has grown to meet global challenges and embraces science-based development as a business strategy. india's advantage is a large number of young, educated, english-speaking, low-cost workers. we should use this advantage in our bilateral relations. but there are also areas where the european union should pay attention to india. more than 390 million people in india live on less than a dollar a day, and the country also has one of the world's highest rates of child labor. that's got to change. the fight against poverty should be a key element of the strategic partnership between the european union and india. we also need to work to make india more represented in the international monetary fund. it would also be a good idea to go ahead with the initiative of a free trade agreement with india, which would strengthen our strategic trade partnership for many years. mr karim's report is a good report and deserves support.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. two years ago, the commission and parliament started a new chapter in the eu-india relationship by calling it a strategic partnership. two years ago, i was part of a parliamentary mission to india to prepare for this summit, believing that india would become our strategic partner. it seemed like a natural choice. the world's two largest democracies, with a combined population of over 1.5 billion people, can create a new economic order for the world. we promised each other more investment, more trade, more youth exchanges, more cooperation between universities and companies. isn't that what we're supposed to do, and are we doing it? for the european union, which wants to maintain its place at the forefront of the world stage, with its breathing difficulties today, should not the most important partner and market be the country of a billion people, with a sustainable economic growth rate of 7%, and 50% of the population under the age of 20? did it? i'm afraid not where's our youth exchange and investment strategy? it's not there because a few countries have imagined russia as a strategic partner, which has over 150 million people, and the average age is approaching 50, but it can effectively blackmail europe by cutting off gas and energy. i call on the commission and the european parliament to review the policy and to stick to the agreements signed under the eu-india strategic partnership.
mr. chairman, please! despite economic growth of 5 to 7 percent a year, india is still a country of stark contrasts. 65% of the working population is engaged in agriculture and nearly 70% live in rural areas. on the one hand, it is a leader in engineering, computer science, and science, and on the other hand, about one third of the population is illiterate and a large proportion of the population lives in poverty. these contrasts give india a unique mix of cooperative benefits, including both low-cost resources and a highly skilled workforce. with over one billion people and the world's fourth largest economy, india should be an attractive destination for investment, trade and tourism for the union. this potential is not being fully exploited by eu companies, which seem to favour china strongly. the union's trade with india accounts for less than 20% of its trade with china. these data suggest that there is a huge untapped potential, but it is necessary to reduce the high duties on goods imported from the union to india, as well as to reduce non-tariff barriers. the union has already made substantial concessions in the wto negotiations. the indian authorities should strive to reduce the red tape that is a hindrance to foreign investment. particularly neglected are transport and energy investments, which are holding back development and could become attractive areas for foreign investment. the union's experience could help to solve the problem of the great regional imbalance in india, where the western and southern parts of the country are very different from the eastern and northern parts. as we expand trade, we must also work to promote human rights in india, and this is an important topic for discussion at the upcoming october summit.
member of the commission. madam president, my colleague, commissioner mandelson, regrets not being able to be here for this very important debate, but he has had to travel to the united states for multilateral discussions. the european commission welcomes the report of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. for the european union, the purpose of global governance is to make possible development that is socially, economically and environmentally sustainable. that is why we wish to promote policies that provide sustainable responses to gender-based issues, whether they are countries’ domestic policies in some cases backed by international aid, common policies such as those forming the building blocks of the european union, or international commitments. trade liberalisation has provided new opportunities for many women in developing countries, providing new employment and in many cases reducing the gender gap in wages, leading to greater empowerment and social standing of women in society. nonetheless, the rapid changes in national economies that can result from globalisation also provide challenges to policy-makers to ensure that the benefits and opportunities of globalisation are maximised and the short-term costs in certain sectors are minimised. the european commission believes that clear social conditions underpin sustainable productivity growth and promote the efficient production of high-quality goods and services generating a net added value. policies that mitigate the adverse effects of a changing economy on specific groups of people or regions, good social services and social protection accessible to all, social dialogue, the respect for fundamental social rights including core labour standards, minimum standards for working conditions and for ensuring workers’ upstream involvement in managing change – all these play a crucial role. the european commission promotes core labour rights in eu trade policy. core labour standards are defined by the ilo to include convention no 100 on equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value, and convention no 111 on discrimination in the workplace. in the multilateral context, a reference to core labour standards was included in the declaration of the first world trade organization ministerial conference in singapore in 1996. regrettably, wto members did not agree to include this issue as part of the doha development agenda. nevertheless, the commission is committed to addressing trade and social development, core labour standards and commitment to meaningful dialogue between the wto and the international labour organization, both in the eu’s own trade policy review and the trade policy reviews of other countries. as part of this process, the international convention of free trade unions’ reports on core labour standards are prepared ahead of each trade policy review. the commission is also strongly in favour of observer status for the ilo in the wto. the european commission has also pursued social development objectives in regional, bi-regional and bilateral arrangements. all its most recent agreements recognise and promote social rights as part of the universal objective of decent work for all. the commission has, for example, entered into dialogue and cooperation with countries such as chile, south africa and bi-regionally with the acp countries, the gulf cooperation council, mercosur and other regions. the european commission remains of the view that the discussion and pursuit of social issues should not be used for protectionist purposes and it rejects any unilateral sanctions-based approach. the objective is to further social progress with a view to promoting benefits for all. since 1998 the ec has also been granting trade preferences under the generalised system of preferences, special incentive arrangements to those developing countries that assure the respect of the core labour rights as defined by the ilo and comply with international recognised standards on sustainable forest management. currently, some 180 developing countries and dependent territories are granted gsp. in the framework of the new gsp scheme, adopted on 27 june 2005 by the council, a gsp-plus initiative for sustainable development provides additional tariff preferences for countries that have signed and effectively implemented un and ilo conventions on human rights and labour rights, including those on gender equality. a total of 15 countries have ratified the core conventions and received gsp-plus status. a gender helpdesk currently operates under the relex family of the commission. the services of the gender helpdesk are part of a larger effort to build capacity and knowledge to promote gender equality and fully implement the strategy of gender mainstreaming. a tool kit has also been published to give practical help to commission staff on how to mainstream gender issues. the ec is also developing a close relationship with the international labour organization on trade-related matters aimed at promoting core labour standards through assessment, capacity-building and enforcement in developing countries. in 2005-2006 the commission has been funding an ilo pilot project aiming to develop decent work indicators in developing countries for examining the relationship between decent work and trade liberalisation. case studies have been undertaken in the philippines and uganda. the data gathered include disaggregated statistics on employment, wages and working hours for women and men. these data provide a more sophisticated picture of decent work than previously available. the commission will explore the potential to use these indicators in future aid programmes with developing countries to help them manage social adjustment to globalisation, and the report will be submitted to the european parliament. the european commission will also look into the potential for using decent work indicators as part of trade sustainability impact assessments.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. the traditional division of roles and responsibilities between women and men in some societies still leaves women without access to education, adequate health care and opportunities to improve their economic situation. the statistics show that of the more than one billion people living in poverty worldwide, 70 percent are women. despite these figures, it is not obvious to everyone that the lack of gender equality which prevents women from having equal access to the means of production and to participate in political and social decision-making in the long run is detrimental to development. international trade can also help to unlock the economic potential of society as a whole by promoting the economic, social and political empowerment of women. the need for coherence between the objectives of european gender equality policy and those of trade and development policy is of paramount importance. ensuring the adequate participation of women in the economy is crucial to women's empowerment and overcoming structural discrimination. to achieve this, the european commission should not only seek to mainstream gender equality in international trade strategies, but also to introduce transparent mechanisms for their supervision and control. by setting a good example, which i hope will become the norm and practice in time, the european union can show third countries that women cannot be treated as second-class citizens and must be able to enjoy full access to markets, credit and the means of production. it is also important that both the eu institutions and the member states integrate gender and equality of opportunity into the objectives of all european funds. member states should aim to develop national policies to promote gender equality and increase the employment of women. the norwegian government's decision to introduce a 40% statutory representation of women on the boards of public limited companies is a great example to follow and should not only be replicated by other member states but also be regulated at community level. women must have equal opportunities to participate in economic life, especially in the poorest countries. for example, universal access to so-called microcredit would help to combat poverty among women and to promote their self-sufficiency and improve their status in society. in conclusion, i would like to stress that it is also important to ensure adequate representation of women at the governmental level of the member states of the european union and in international organisations in order to ensure that gender and women's issues are taken into account in the context of global trade negotiations. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs breyer, on a very well-drafted document.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. the report on the prospects of women in international trade organisations is like other eu documents a confirmation that liberalisation and globalisation and the so-called free market is only a paradise for very rich, educated and powerful individuals with no scruples, as confirmed by one of the conclusions of the report that only highly qualified women could benefit from trade liberalisation, while the rest of the population, both women and men (usually those with little) are exploited and subjected to propaganda. this is all the more dramatic because it is happening behind the veil of lofty words such as human rights, equality, equal opportunities for all, equal treatment in employment and many other popular slogans that have little to do with the truth.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, mr guerreiro, for his report, and the fisheries committee for having taken up this important subject in the form of an own-initiative report. it brings a significant contribution to the ongoing debate on the economic situation of the european union fishing sector. i also noted with satisfaction that the conference of committee chairmen expressed its appreciation of the commission’s communication on the economic difficulties of the sector. the conference of committee chairmen welcomed the positions expressed by the commission in its communication, in which it envisages a number of possibilities for aiding the sector in the short term, in the existing context of community legislation on state aids; in particular, our willingness to examine the national rescue and restructuring aid schemes, submitted by member states in the two years following publication of the communication. i shall therefore also touch upon some of the recommendations of the conference of committee chairmen, which converge largely with those of the report we are discussing. we share the same concerns and objectives regarding the fishing sector. we agree with many of the proposals and assessments contained in your report, although we have different views and perspectives on some others regarding, for instance, the short-term support to be given to the sector. let me state from the beginning that i strongly disagree with the statement that the commission appears to take advantage of the current economic crisis to reduce the size of the fishing fleet. by calling a spade a spade, by highlighting the state that the community fishery is in because of years of over-fishing, we are not taking advantage of anything. i also find unfair the suggestion that we have done too little, too late. the imbalance between fleet capacity and available resources and the oil price increase are objective causes of the current difficulties faced by the sector. the commission has done everything possible to help the sector, taking into account the parameters of community legislation and the need to ensure that the aid actually contributes to fishing sustainability. no mandatory capacity reductions are foreseen under community law. indeed, our challenge has been to balance the necessity to help the segments most affected by high oil prices with the need to address long-term structural problems. we have, therefore, sought to design instruments to rescue and restructure fishing enterprises in difficulty, to help them adapt and become profitable within the context of high oil prices. it is no use giving aid to fishing enterprises in difficulty if they do not, or cannot, undertake the restructuring that will make them profitable again. for that reason, we have excluded from the rescue schemes all forms of operating aid, which apart from going against community legislation, will only prolong the problem without solving it. action can be taken in the short term by member states willing to provide support for financial and physical restructuring of fishing enterprises in difficulty, in the framework of national rescue and restructuring schemes. that is precisely meant to allow fishing enterprises in difficulty to obtain loan capital and bail them out, as requested both in your report and in that of the conference of committee chairmen on the work programme of the commission. the community is strongly committed to these rescue and restructuring schemes, since community funds will be available mainly through the european fisheries fund, to cofinance the restructuring of fishing enterprises, as well as to alleviate their social consequences. socio-economic support can indeed be provided through the eff, as requested in your report. the new eff will also provide for more advantageous conditions for scrapping vessels, which was a concern expressed both in your report and that of the conference of committee chairmen. besides eff support, we have worked hard to establish new rules for de minimis aid, in collaboration with the commission’s other services, in order to facilitate the handling of small state aid schemes by member states. this goes in the direction of your request, which point was also made by the conference of committee chairmen. you must appreciate that our proposal already represents a tenfold increase on the former threshold, which was fixed less than two years ago. we have also noted the request for a specific treatment of the long-distance fleet, expressed both in your report and that of the committee chairmen. we are prepared to consider if, and under what conditions, a special register for this segment of the fleet would be justified. beyond the rescue and restructuring of fishing firms in difficulty, we must create in the long term an environment that is conducive to their sustainable success. the communication therefore highlights some policy areas that i want to develop in the coming years to create this more favourable environment. i am not going to repeat them here, but i would like to highlight some areas where our views converge. we fully agree on the need to better involve fishermen in the management of fisheries. that is crucial for the success of the reformed common fisheries policy and i am determined to move in that direction. due attention will also be paid to the financing of regional advisory councils’ operation. in line with your recommendations, we have taken serious steps to strengthen the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (iuu) at international level. our 2002 action plan is being updated and a new piece of legislation is being considered. that has been given high priority in our agenda. we share the view that small-scale coastal fishing has specificities that deserve to be taken into account. we have done it extensively, both in the rescue and restructuring schemes and in the eff. we have launched a study to assess objectively whether more can be done. we also agree with you that special attention needs to be paid to marketing, with a view to increasing the added value of fishing products for fishermen. as mentioned also by the conference of committee chairmen, research should also be pursued in the seventh framework programme to help address some of the most important challenges of the sector. in conclusion, i would like to thank you once again for your contributions and interest. they demonstrate how much we all strive to ensure a sustainable and healthy future for the fishing sector. i am looking forward to a fruitful discussion with you.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - madam president! - i have to go. the rapporteur has undertaken a very difficult task. the attempts to regulate the position of certain occupational groups conceal the temptation, or even two, to trigger social sensitivity, which, when the political needs of the moment are accumulated, often takes the form of hypersensitivity. the rapporteur, sitting on the left of the benches, chose his own third path: he considered the economic situation of fisheries to be an extraordinary problem requiring extraordinary measures by the european commission. the quintessence of mr guerreiro's position is illustrated by amendments, such as 23, which expose the social dimension of economic solutions. they strongly encourage the european commission to create new instruments for shaping economic programmes, in particular to ensure that financial resources are increased. the more moderate views are reflected in amendments relating to long-term maritime policy, such as amendments 3 and 5. they do not conceal the need to maintain a balance between sustainable income and taxes on fisheries undertakings and a certain form and value of social assistance. this principle should apply not only to long-term measures to promote sustainable fisheries but also to short-term measures such as the replacement of engines and fishing gear. the committee on fisheries was particularly interested in the report by mr guerreiro, which is of importance for the community's fisheries policy. the final product is the result of multilateral negotiations, the persistent search for a version that satisfies the members. this final endorsement was unanimously voted by our committee. the european parliament should adopt this document with the conviction that it is involved in the process of regulating the issues that are fundamental to european fisheries: both the long-term economic strategy and the daily issues that are most vital to the people of this sector.
mr. chairman, please! fisheries play an important role in the union's economy, but have been in crisis for many years. there is a mismatch between overfishing and available resources. the intensification of fishing activities has affected overfishing, which is widespread and present in most waters. the increase in fuel prices has a significant impact on the increase in operating costs. many of the economically weak regions are dependent on the fishing industry. on the one hand, there are environmentalists and the opinions of many scientists who remind us of the catastrophic situation of the seas and oceans, and on the other hand, there are fishermen, fishermen and their families. we must find a silver bullet to keep the sheep healthy and the wolf fed. short- and long-term measures, such as fishing quotas, time limits, subsidies of all kinds and other forms of intervention, are needed to overcome the difficulties in this sector. so there is a need to make difficult changes and adjustments. the european union needs to intervene to put the world on a sustainable development path. researchers, administrations and fishermen must come together to tackle these challenges. the european council meeting in december cut the budget for the european fisheries fund for the period 2007-2013 from around €4.9 billion to €3.8 billion. these funds are really needed by the eu fisheries. fishing is like farming on water. it is not just about providing consumers with healthy food, it is not just about providing livelihoods for people living in the coastal zone, but it is also about a rich culture and tradition. like agriculture, we are very much dependent on nature, so we need to understand the specific nature of fisheries and look at the wider ecosystem to get it out of the crisis.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's discussion of the organic labelling project coincides with the global trend of increasing demand for healthy food. we are now facing an overproduction of food in the countries of the european union. there is also a marked increase in the number of illnesses caused by the consumption of chemically saturated food. so consumers are choosing more expensive, but healthier foods. production of this oil is impossible in many countries because of the degradation of large areas of land. nor can it be grown on large farms. this situation offers an opportunity for countries with relatively low soil degradation and where farms are medium and small in size. it will also help to solve, at least in part, the problem of rural unemployment. of course, we also have concerns about the likelihood of food being placed on the union market that is not healthy. counterfeiting is a very common practice in international trade. we may soon be flooded with so-called healthy food, like from china. another danger is the introduction of theoretically healthy foods produced from genetically modified plants into european markets. in both cases, we should introduce rules that make it impossible for organic food from outside the union to be placed on the european market without full assurance of the quality of its production.
mr. chairman, please! so, when i talk about organic farming, i want to highlight five problems. first, the identification of organic products, i.e. the use of the community logo for organic products, the national or regional logo and information on the place of production and similar data. secondly, the conditions under which the organic product is produced, the standards required and their control. a list of plant protection products, fertilisers and soil improvers, co-formulants and processing aids authorised for use in organic farming is necessary. organic food production is produced in a clean and safe environment, free of antibiotics, growth hormones and genetically modified organisms. the certification control system should be subject to mandatory accreditation and ongoing monitoring. third, information on the value of organic food and its promotion. the consumer should be made aware of the benefits of organic products, which will increase demand for them. to increase the consumption of organic products, marketing and consumer information activities need to be improved. fourth, organic farming is about meeting the needs and expectations of consumers for a special quality of food. organic farming is an opportunity to increase agricultural income and to strengthen regional and local development, especially in these less developed areas. fifthly, support for organic farming through subsidies for organic production and support for the organisation of a proper distribution and promotion system, because this is the weakest link in the producer-consumer nexus.
the next item is the report by miloslav ransdorf, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on nanoscience and nanotechnology: an action plan for europe 2005-09 [2006/2004 (ini) ] (a6-0216/2006).
member of the commission. mr president, i am here today to talk about the big issue of small technologies. over 2000 years ago, the ancient greek politician demosthenes said: ‘small opportunities are often the beginning of great enterprises.’ i believe he was right. and i mean enterprise in every sense of the word – not just as a business, but as a project and a voyage of discovery. nanotechnology has already shown that it holds a lot of promise. it not only offers new solutions to many current problems, but also opens up new innovation opportunities, boosting the economy and creating jobs. nanotechnology is already making a difference in many areas. for example, new medical treatments are being developed for severe diseases such as brain tumours and alzheimer’s disease; it is helping the environment through more efficient catalysts, better batteries and more efficient light sources; and smaller, lighter and better-performing materials, components and systems are being created. but nanotechnology could also make a huge contribution to major global challenges such as how to tackle threats to the environment, how to make better use of resources and create less waste, and how to improve energy generation technologies. europe is in a leading position in the world today, partly thanks to the commission’s framework programme. european industry should now reap the benefits of that knowledge through innovative products and processes. but to follow through, we need to take action on several fronts, which are outlined in the commission’s communication nanosciences and nanotechnologies: an action plan for europe 2005-09. these include the need to increase investment, boost interdisciplinarity, create necessary infrastructures, expand human resources and foster innovation. much progress has already been made in implementing the action plan: commission funding for research in nanosciences and nanotechnologies has steadily increased to about eur 470 million in 2005. in fact, the commission has now become the world’s largest single public funding agency for nanotechnology. it accounted for 30% of public funding of nanotechnology research in the european union last year. significant funding increases are expected over the duration of the seventh framework programme. the commission has proposed expanding funding for nanotechnology, with a new emphasis on developing infrastructures and projects assessing the risk of nanotechnology for humans and the environment. that is a key area, because, as well as the benefits, we must also recognise the potential risks. these must be carefully assessed. some concerns have already been raised about new applications. the action plan addresses these too. special projects and publicity in many languages will provide information and communication. there are projects to engage the public – presenting both sides of the argument; brochures explaining how nanotechnology works; and even dvds explaining the issues in simple terms for children. in addition, the european group on ethics in science and new technologies is working on an opinion on the ethics of nanomedicine, which we expect to be delivered to president barroso soon. the commission is committed to ensuring a balanced approach. what is fundamental is to have a high level of public health, safety, environmental and consumer protection. to do that, in europe we need to identify the safety concerns, collect data for a health and environmental impact assessment of the product, and act at the earliest possible stage through adjustments, where necessary, of risk assessment procedures for nanotechnology. the commission is also looking at the european legislation applicable to nanotechnology. we are assessing how adequate and appropriate that legislation is to deal with the increasing use of nanotechnologies. we also need to consider potential regulatory issues. lastly, we are active in many international fora, addressing new issues and seeking to develop a code of good conduct. i am very happy to note that the european parliament, through the report of mr ransdorf, fully recognises the important role to be played by nanosciences and nanotechnologies and welcomes the commission’s action plan. i find it very positive that the report calls for increased public investment in related research and development, particularly in developing relevant infrastructures and nanomedicine. it is equally important that it stresses the importance of creating the right climate for innovation in europe as well as emphasising the importance of ‘speaking with one voice’ internationally in this highly promising research area. i am very happy to note that the report has enjoyed a very large measure of support from the three parliamentary committees that have discussed it. to conclude, i hope i have given you a brief outline of the commission’s balanced and growing nanosciences and nanotechnologies policy. together, we can all benefit from that exciting new enterprise. i thank the european parliament for its support so far and hope you will continue to support the commission in further developing the european dimension of nanoscience and research.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. nanoscience is concerned with phenomena in solids at the nano level, that is, at the 10- to 9-meter scale. based on this research, nanotechnology represents, as rarely as a high-priority area of technology, the most promising potential trend that will dramatically increase the likelihood of progress in many areas of our lives. this includes the automotive and aerospace industries, e.g. for the production of smooth and abrasion-resistant lacquers containing nanoparticles, health, e.g. for the production of pharmaceuticals or cosmetics, energy, for fuel cells and nanoporous hydrogen absorbers, as well as efficient solar batteries, itc techniques using optical and spin phenomena to further compress blue laser-readable information, biotechnology, including dna testing and bioinformatics systems. these examples can be extended to include sensor and structural materials such as nanocomposites and electron beam-surface activated fibres and fabrics. at the same time, unfortunately, there can be a permanent environmental contamination, a permanent air pollution, aerosol, which is difficult to monitor. there are two groups of nanotechnologies. group 1, 'top-down' technologies, including, inter alia, transition from macro to nano state, e.g. by grinding powders, expanding and activating their surfaces by increasing the potential. these technologies include, but are not limited to, the application of diamond protective coatings. group two, 'bottom-up' technologies allowing the shaping of the molecular level, e.g. for the production of highly integrated spinotronic devices. in this case, we have very few technologies available, unfortunately, that use tunnel microscopy or self-organizing phenomena. this group includes biological information systems. in conclusion, it should be noted that the scientific policy on nanoscience and nanotechnology should take into account the fact that, firstly, the development of 'top-down' technologies in the european union so far allows the establishment of at least a few, and even a dozen, technology platforms. secondly, bottom-up technologies require further intensive upstream research in the basic sciences. and thirdly, we must urgently develop a methodology to study the current pollution, i repeat, the current non-nanotechnology pollution, of the atmosphere with nanoparticles. it is more than just pm 2.5, which easily penetrates our bodies through cell membranes and whose catalytic action can be hazardous to health. who knows if the cancer epidemic is not linked to the elusive and perhaps increasing presence of persistent nanoaerosols in our environment from various sources.
mr. chairman, please! the results of research and the application of nanotechnology already achieved indicate a huge potential for the production of materials with attractive properties. the way we use them will determine the development of industry, the economy, health and living standards in the 21st century. the european union cannot afford to lose this race in nanoscience and nanotechnology. the report identifies a number of barriers that need to be overcome, such as: formal and legal issues and intellectual property protection, coordination and dissemination of research, the creation of interdisciplinary research teams and training, the raising of additional funds from private investors, the safety of the use and management of new materials. all these activities should be monitored and supported by parliament. i would like to thank mr. ransdorf for producing a very good and necessary report.
mr. chairman, please! if you ask who is the world power and the leader in the international arena, everyone will mention the united states. but it is the european union that provides more than half of the world's public aid and is the world's largest donor. unfortunately, this does not translate into european leadership on the international stage. we say 'the union', but we mean 'the member states', because the european council in brussels in december 2005 made it clear that 80-90% of new aid to developing countries must come from the member states. the question is whether we will accept in the future the reduction of the debts of individual countries, most recently iraq and nigeria, as development aid. this is convenient for the union, but it actually reduces real aid to developing countries. and yet, this real aid to poor nations last year, not counting debt cancellations, increased by 5 billion. some say only five billion, others say five billion. and finally, speaking as a representative of a new member state of the union, the new, poorer countries of the union are in a completely new situation. we are part of the european community and we want to accept these commitments. finally, our countries must understand that there are poorer countries in the world.
mr. chairman, please! the justification for the report by mr hutchinson starts with the dramatic statement that 11 children die every minute in the world. they die of starvation and poverty. indeed, it is hard to imagine a better reason to address the question of the effectiveness of european union development aid. it is hard to disagree with the statement that an increase in development aid amounts only makes sense if it is accompanied by a significant increase in aid effectiveness. i am convinced that european taxpayers accept an increase in the amount of development aid. at the same time, they do not accept waste, inefficiency, opacity, and appearances. that's why efficiency is so important. it's important to call what is helpful help. i therefore support the view that debt relief for poor countries should be clearly separated from development aid expenditure. moreover, the hipc initiative has not brought a lasting solution to the debt problem of poor countries. on the other hand, it is important that as much of the financial assistance as possible goes directly to the beneficiaries. the point is not to give the impression that a large part of these funds is allocated to various types of intermediaries officials, advisers. the need to deepen decentralised cooperation directly with local authorities in developing countries is therefore justified.
mr. chairman, please! the significant increase in the number of patent applications is having an impact on the broadening of the impact of unclear patent law. we therefore need solutions that help us to start the process of harmonising this law. so we need a clear definition of what can and cannot be patented. it is important to prevent patent rights being used in isolation from innovation itself, since the patent is by its very nature a restriction on free competition. the best solution in the community interest would be to create a harmonisation directive, but parliament did not accept the commission's earlier proposals. in this situation, other solutions must be sought. one such idea is the establishment and ratification of the epla convention by all eu countries. it should be borne in mind, however, that we can only support such a convention if it meets the criteria we consider relevant in the european union. these criteria include, among others, the precise definition of what is patentable, of course as far as possible, the full independence of the judiciary and the full impartiality of the judges who will rule on the protection and validity of patents, and the determination of the sustainable and enforceable costs of protecting patent rights. therefore, we cannot afford to join the convention at this stage, the effects of which may be difficult to determine, because although it is obvious that the epla concerns institutional arrangements, it is important to bear in mind the possible impact on substantive law, especially in the context of the practice of the european patent office. i therefore ask the commission to include a detailed impact assessment for each proposal submitted here. but the most important thing is to realise that we in parliament want to change the policy on patents. but we want changes that satisfy not only big business but also european smes.
mr president, you did not take a vote on whether we should have a resolution at this part-session. i request that we take a vote. a proposal was submitted to the effect that we react immediately with a resolution, and you did not take a vote on that proposal. (applause)
mr. chairman, please! how fortunate that there is no longer a warsaw pact and nato in the world today. how fortunate that the former soviet bloc countries are now united in the european union and nato or are seeking membership. the european union is stronger and more able to deal with the issue of nuclear tests in north korea, for example. fortunately, even russia today supports the voice of the civilized part of the world, and like us here, condemns these nuclear tests, although there are still terrible things happening there, such as the murders of journalists and recently anna politkovskaya. north korea is one of the last remaining white spots on the world map today in terms of politics, economics and democracy. what is this korea thing really about? perhaps it is merely demanding our attention, a desperate cry for help. we are pleased that china also condemns the korean-proposed arms race. today, more than ever before in the history of the planet, all nations want to prosper economically and live in peace. and korea needs food and prosperity more than weapons.
madam president! the finnish presidency declares its commitment to the eu-russia energy partnership. i'd like to ask you a question: how does he intend to achieve that? it is now more difficult to talk about partnership, but easier to talk about the so-called finlandisation of the union's relations with russia. the union is pursuing a policy of concession towards russia. she's also very inconsistent in her positions. this is often at the expense of the new baltic member states, including poland, as exemplified by the german-russian agreement on the construction of a north-european gas pipeline under the baltic sea. russia is skillfully exploiting its monopoly position in the european energy market. the union is acting on the principle of divide and rule, negotiating with the stronger over the weaker, and the union is relentlessly accepting this. so far, they have not even succeeded in getting russia to ratify the european energy charter, the eu's basic energy market document. the informal summit of heads of state and government in lahti with the participation of the president of russia is expected to help change this situation. on this issue, as on any other, the union needs to speak with one voice and to take a firm negotiating position.
madam president! the meeting of our leaders with president putin will be an opportunity to raise the issue of energy security, to express our highest concerns, and i would like to emphasize, our highest concerns about the state of russian democracy and human rights in this country. too many times our politicians have buried their heads in the sand and too often have settled for meaningless explanations from the russian side. and finally, the conscience of russian journalism, anna politkovskaya, was killed in a brutal way, with a shot to the head, just like galina starowoitova was killed. these two victims mark the beginning and end of the process of democratic retreat in russia. the 1998 starowojtowa bombing marked the beginning of a retreat from democratic standards in the country. the old man was a symbolic figure, the leader of the petersburg democrats. politkovskaya's murder is really an attack on what's left of the freedom of the press in russia. whoever ordered the hit knew the victim would be a defiant man, a symbol of truth and independent journalism. i never knew anna politkovskaya personally, but i had the satisfaction of working with galina starowojtowa and i always admired her courage. in the name of their victims, before we ourselves feel the effects of russia's retreat from democracy, i therefore call for the issue of respect for human rights and civil liberties in russia to be made a condition for our continued political dialogue with russia.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is facing the political, economic and cultural challenges of recent times. first, the time has come to shape a common european energy policy - a project to build european policy in heavy industry after the second world war. secondly, the european union should respond in solidarity to the problems that are particularly acute in some eu countries, due to the massive illegal immigration of people from all over the world to europe. finally, a real breakthrough must be made in the development of scientific research, new technologies, competitiveness and innovation in the european union. what we need in europe at this moment is courage, vision and a forward-looking strategy. we need deeper integration and a genuinely common, i repeat, common policy in these three areas. the invitation to president putin to the lahti summit and the pursuit of a strategic partnership with russia should be welcomed. at the same time, our agreement with russia cannot come at the expense of tolerating violations of human rights and media freedom in that country. russia is a country of immense mineral wealth, but russia is first and foremost a country of people like the murdered journalist anna politovska - a journalist whose courage and integrity is the face of civic russia and whose work should become a symbol and inspiration for all of europe.
mr. chairman, please! i fully agree with my colleagues from the epp-ed on what they said about the state of democracy in russia and i would not like to repeat those arguments - they are 100% true for me. i would like to mention two other issues and congratulate the finnish presidency on the preparation of two subjects for the informal summit in lahti, namely energy and innovation. in energy we need a common policy, both within the union to create a common energy market and outside, for example, joint european negotiations with our oil and gas selling partners. this is very important. the point is that we must not allow a situation to arise where one eu country is negotiating with russia for oil or gas, for example, because then other countries may be at a very disadvantage. it is very important that we do this with our common foreign policy on energy, and it will be a great step towards a common foreign policy in general. but there is another aspect of our foreign affairs in terms of energy: the ukrainian pipelines are in a bad state today, and this is the last window through which oil and gas can flow to us from the east independently of gazprom. it's important that we invest in these pipelines, that we get to invest in these pipelines. as for innovation, i would like to mention only three things. first, the right economic policies that will make industry absorb innovation - we don't have that on our continent. so, the economy, the economic policy. secondly, the european patent. we need to have our own european patent. and thirdly, the european institute of technology, which should be at the service of innovation. i personally support the idea of president barroso and i believe that during this presidency we have the opportunity to put an end to the 'i' here too.
mr. chairman, please! it is appalling that the path to civil liberties and respect for basic human rights must be paved with the murder of innocent people. today we're talking about the murder of politkovskaya, a woman who has been relentless in exposing the crimes committed against the chechen people by the russians. but let's remember that in the past, people like the ukrainian journalist gongadze and the lebanese samir kassir have died fighting dictators. in these cases, has the state done everything to protect those who exposed the links between public institutions and criminals? has not hatred for the integrity and the pen of these journalists led to the closing of the eyes, the washing of the hands like pilate, the indifference of the state to their fate and the risk of death hanging over their heads? russia has always produced great characters who went against the tide of dictatorships, who exposed the crimes and misdeeds of their government at the risk of their lives. let's name names like kravchenko, bukowski, sakharov or solzhenitsyn. are we citizens of the free world supposed to leave them alone forever? no, we didn't give enough support to politkovskaya in her lifetime. let's support her in death. i believe that the investigation into the murder of the lebanese prime minister rafik hariri should be conducted under international supervision. i cannot imagine that a cooperation agreement between the european union and moscow could be signed without an explanation of this crime and without bringing to justice its perpetrators and sponsors, either because the european union puts its commitment to freedom, civil liberties and human rights first or because of economic and energy interests. mr. chairman, the moment of truth has arrived. we owe this uncompromisingness to a murdered journalist.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. last year alone, a total of 1.25 billion pairs of chinese shoes were sold in europe. that's half of all the shoes sold in the european union at that time. meanwhile, from 2001 to the present, the production of leather footwear in europe has decreased by almost 30%. in the european union, nearly 40 000 jobs have been lost in the footwear sector since then. the situation is similar in poland. in 2001, only 300,000 pairs of shoes produced in china were imported into poland. now we import as many as 9 million pairs a year. this has direct implications for employment in the sector. in 2003, the footwear sector in poland had 123 shoe factories, in 2005 only 93. employment in the sector fell from nearly 17,000 to 13,000 during that time, production from 18 million pairs of shoes to nearly 15 million pairs. moreover, the main beneficiaries of these massive imports are not the consumers through their low prices as is commonly believed, but the importers who charge margins often exceeding 100% of the value of the transaction. in this context, it welcomes the fact that the european commission finally decided to impose duties in order to protect the european union market, especially as the commission experts established beyond any doubt that the chinese dumped prices were being used. governments in both china and vietnam have unfairly supported their producers through tax breaks, free land grants, or by not paying full production costs, for example by not charging for environmental benefits. the only regret is that it came so late, when the european footwear industry was already suffering so much. the european commission should do everything in its power to ensure that this situation does not recur in any other sector of the economy in the future. moreover, decisions on the response to the entry of dumped goods into the european customs territory should be taken very quickly so that the impact of these imports on production and thus employment in the european union is limited.
mr. chairman, please! shoes are products whose quality has a great impact on our health and the comfort of our movement. its usefulness and durability depend on the design, technology, workmanship and materials used. there are costs involved in securing the basic standard of footwear. the very low priced footwear may come from subsidised production or from production using very low quality raw materials and technologies that do not meet health and functional requirements. these two conditions should be taken into account in the protection of the industry and consumers of the european union. i therefore believe that it is justified to introduce an anti-dumping duty as well as other measures that would restrict the access of non-compliant footwear.
mr. chairman, please! the commission proposes to wind up the european agency for reconstruction and to extend its activities for two years, until 31 december 2008, while maintaining its status and mandate. under this plan, the agency and its activities are to be phased out and replaced by commission representations and offices to manage the new financial instrument. reform and ensuring sound financial management are of key importance for the european union. on the other hand, the phasing out of the european agency for reconstruction should not be based on a rigid timetable but on political and economic criteria and factors, making full use of its expertise and experience. the european agency for reconstruction is being dissolved at a crucial political juncture in the development of the western balkans. the commission, when dismantling the agency, must take into account the stability of the region and the un security council decisions on the status of kosovo. the overriding objective should be to safeguard the role of the european union in this process.
mr. chairman, please! polish producers and exporters of agricultural products have not been able to export their goods to the russian federation for many months. in march this year, ukraine was the next country to ban the import of meat and meat products from poland. this decision was taken without giving any legal basis. the lack of results in the talks between the european union and the russian federation is surprising. perhaps the european commission is not giving due weight to the issues of trade between poland and russia, putting other interests of the union and other countries above it. i therefore ask the european commission once again to do everything possible to lift the ban on exports of agricultural products from poland to ukraine and russia. the european commission has this problem in terms of its powers, in terms of its responsibilities.
mr. chairman, please! at a confidential meeting of the foreign affairs committee last week regarding the draft new partnership agreement with russia, the so-called pca, there was a scandalous behavior by the chairman of that committee, mr. brok. in reply to a question i put to director mingarelli, which was intended to reassure the new member states that the proposed agreement with russia would not jeopardise their energy security and that the agreement would not be concluded in the same style as the one concerning the construction of the northern gas pipeline, i.e. that it would not protect exclusively german interests, mr brokago was extremely violent. he voted that i could ask such questions at a rally in my country, and then he withdrew the question without allowing the speaker to answer. despite the fact that this was a decidedly arrogant and shoe-in reaction, mr. brok violated the principles of parliamentary democracy, which is based on pluralism of opinion and the freedom of speech of members. his behaviour showed extreme bias in the running of the commission, ensuring the inviolability of german-russian relations. i ask the president to respond and explain the behaviour of president brok, who discriminates against the members from the new member countries.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to raise the issue of water scarcity, which is becoming a major concern for many europeans. water is an essential element for life and economic activity. unfortunately, the steady 0.2 degrees celsius of warming in 25 european union countries over 10 years, and decreasing rainfall in many regions, are making it very difficult for people to access water, causing losses in agriculture and industrial distress. water is changing rather rapidly in a negative direction, and investments in restoring and storing water are long-term and costly. this is why there is a need to organise training, exchange experiences and promote good practices and technologies for the rational use and storage of water. it is also necessary to target economic activities to rationalise water management in any economic activity. the lack of water can be a barrier to agricultural production, and in particular to the raw materials for biofuels, the supply of which is not a problem. water management requires constant monitoring and parliament should be kept informed periodically... (the president read out the speaker's speech.)
mr. chairman, please! in may this year, we approved at second reading the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on nutrition and health claims made on foods, which means that from 1 january 2007 european law will require food manufacturers to put reliable information on the properties of the product on their packaging. in practice, this means that any health benefits of the goods must be established by independent laboratories. unfortunately, these regulations will only be ostensibly pro-consumer. the eu provision may eliminate products from small and medium-sized enterprises that cannot afford to pay for research by the standards of wealthy european companies. as a result, buyers will have less and less choice and less ability to make informed purchases, still not knowing what they are buying. the destructive mechanism of such competition can be curbed by licensing the right to award health-related labels and by standardising the remuneration of health-related products. it is also essential to give special support to small and mediumsized enterprises whose products are often of a much higher quality than those of the large companies entering our common market.
mr. chairman, please! a few years ago, the republic of lithuania regained its independence. this was a fact that all democratic europe rejoiced in. immediately, lithuania began to implement social and economic reforms aimed at overcoming the remnants of soviet occupation. the activities aimed at gaining independence were largely attended by the 10% polish minority that has lived for centuries in the area around the state capital, vilnius. however, despite the passage of such a long period of time, the lithuanian authorities did not return the land seized by the soviets to the poles. also, despite many agreements, lithuania does not respect the issue of writing polish names according to their spelling. it's written in lithuanian. these actions are a clear violation of european legislation on national and ethnic minorities in the member states of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate on the soft fruit sector gives hope that the two-year effort to reorganise the fruit and vegetable market will finally bear fruit. is it not curious that a member state which supplies 90% of the union's frozen strawberries has had to wait so long for a decision to impose protective duties? many polish farmers have suffered huge losses in the last two years while waiting for the chinese dumping to be curbed. no one will compensate them for their loss. and the fruit and vegetable market is not just a strawberry problem. it also covers the unregulated issues of 18 important species introduced by the new member states. this includes mainly apples for processing. in poland, there will soon be a protest by the growers against the low prices offered by the processing industry. the issue of regulating this fruit and vegetable market segment has been the subject of two years of work by parliament. so far, it's not working. i would just like to remind you that the apple is the first fruit in the european union in terms of the size of the harvest (32% of the total fruit harvest!) and that the union is also a major importer of this fruit. how long will we have to wait for this and the other fruit and vegetable market segments mentioned in the european parliament's resolution of 11 may 2005 on simplifying the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables to be regulated? will the european commission respect this vote?
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the protection and welfare of animals is a cultural and civilizational challenge for humanity in the 21st century. i am very pleased that my amendment expressing this idea has been accepted in the draft resolution. "the measure of a civilization is its relationship to animals", mahatma gandhi said. animal cruelty has no place in the europe of the 21st century. cruelty to animals is an affront to our humanity, and it cannot be tolerated. cruelty to animals is only a short step from cruelty to humans. animal welfare should not be sold for money, because our humanity cannot be sold for money. the protection of animals against cruelty should be ensured at all costs, provided that the same requirements are applied in the european union and to all those who export products of animal origin to the european market.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the issue of maintaining adequate animal welfare standards in the eu member states and therefore producing adequate food for consumers is of great importance. therefore, every effort should be made to ensure that only food of high quality reaches the community markets. it is necessary to take strict measures to restrict the introduction of products suspected of not complying with european animal husbandry rules. increased taxes on dishonest exporters alone are not going to do any good. i would like to stress that the international community has not yet succeeded in enforcing respect for human rights, let alone animal rights. a significant proportion of food is exported from such countries to union markets. i would like to emphasize that the humane principles of such farming have been and are traditionally and culturally applied in small and family farms, and that all kinds of pathologies in this area are found in large commodity farms. the guidelines for the slaughter of animals are also distorted. it is a big mistake to ban slaughter on family farms for personal consumption. this is a centuries-old tradition, and the owners make sure that the slaughter takes place in suitable conditions.
mr. chairman, please! if animals could talk, they would certainly thank rapporteur elisabeth jeggle very warmly for taking up their cause. she's their committed spokesperson and their caretaker. the report deserves great praise. it is all about caring for farm animals and wildlife, which the rapporteur has also taken care of. it also took care of transport, production economics, international aspects, labelling of production, animal use for research, humane slaughter, etc. i believe that with the help of all of us, we can achieve the goals we set, and there are many. but we must take special care to raise awareness, to keep international organisations involved and to spread awareness, and the results will be like a seal fight. nothing can be added to the report. i congratulate you and all the animals.
member of the commission. mr president, on behalf of my colleague peter mandelson, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the committee on international trade on the report on economic and trade relations between the eu and mercosur with a view to the conclusion of an interregional association agreement. this report gives a very comprehensive picture of the current relations between the eu and mercosur in the economic as well as the political field, and the european commission shares most of the analysis presented in this report. the european commission very much concurs with the committee on international trade in its view that a conclusion of an ambitious and balanced association agreement between the eu and mercosur is a strategic objective. the commission remains firmly committed to concluding the agreement with mercosur as soon as it is technically and politically feasible. such an agreement would be the platform for promoting the relationship between the two regions and for promoting the common values and objectives that unite us. an eu-mercosur agreement would establish the first ever region-to-region association and the largest free-trade area in the world, covering almost 700 million people. as the inta report points out, such an association agreement would enable both regions to respond more effectively to the challenges of globalisation. it would enhance the competitiveness of our economies, increase growth and thereby contribute to economic and social cohesion. creating the world’s largest market place would give an enormous boost to job creation, economic reform and productivity levels. a free-trade agreement with mercosur is a very good example of how eu trade policy can contribute to the eu’s wider approach to economic reform and competitiveness. a region-to-region agreement with mercosur would also serve as an instrument to support an integration effort within mercosur and latin america. the accession of venezuela to mercosur this year implies an enlargement of the region and the european commission also hopes that the process of broadening and deepening regional integration will continue. we know from our own european experience that the reforms and adjustments necessary for integration are not easy. but we also know that the rewards make the effort worthwhile. an agreement would also create a more transparent and stable business environment for the eu and mercosur companies. this would contribute to attracting more investment flows. investment – and future investment – could possibly have the biggest impact on the shape of our future economic partnership with mercosur. although foreign direct investment to mercosur increased in 2004 and 2005, the relative share of the region in relation to global eu investments has been sliding ever since the 1990s. this is a source of concern, as investment means transfer of know-how, of industrialisation and jobs. this relative downward trend of the mercosur region in relation to the rest of the world, especially asia, is one of the challenges of the future agreement and, possibly, its main potential economic benefit. let me just say a few words on the timing. in the report by the international trade committee, you request the establishment of a negotiating calendar which would allow us to conclude the eu-mercosur negotiations as soon as possible. the european commission is fully committed to concluding these negotiations as soon as is technically and politically feasible, but we have always been of the opinion that substance prevails over timing. what we want to achieve is an ambitious, comprehensive and balanced agreement which goes beyond our wto commitments. as the inta report points out, there is a cost to not having an agreement. but there is also a long-term cost in missed opportunities from having a bad agreement. related to the issue of timing is the link between these biregional negotiations, the progress of the wto doha development agenda and the sequence of the two negotiations. in this respect, the european commission fully agrees with the analysis of the report by inta; both these processes can realise substantial synergies. they are not mutually exclusive; they are complementary. to conclude, let me convey to you the following message, which i am sure that you share with me: for strategic and political reasons, the european commission remains committed to negotiating and concluding an ambitious and balanced agreement with mercosur. trade is an important element of this agreement but not the only one. beyond the trade negotiations, we should not lose sight of the strategic, political and economic rationale of this agreement. let us not forget the strategic dimension of a future association agreement, which is to promote a relationship between regional blocs which enhances peace, stability, prosperity, social progress and democracy.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on development. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr valera, on his very successful report on economic and trade relations between the european union and mercosur with a view to the conclusion of an interregional association agreement. this report is very important and comes at a very opportune time. as we know, the negotiations on the eu's association agreement with mercosur have a long and difficult history. in the current situation - the failure of the doha round - we need a strong and clear signal that the association agreement is necessary and beneficial for both the mercosur countries and the european union. there is also a need for stronger political commitment and support for the ultimate success of the union-mercosur negotiations. i think the rapporteur has done a very good job of this. the report sends a positive signal and can play an important, positive role in determining the next stages of the negotiations. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for taking into account many of the conclusions and suggestions of the opinion of the committee on development, which i represented as an op-editor. thank you for stressing the role of maintaining a balance between trade and development in the final text of the agreement, so that the chapters on trade do not conflict with the chapters on development, and for stressing the need to establish guarantees that the provisions on cooperation will be effective in combating poverty and consistent with the union's development policy measures. the development committee drew attention to various aspects of development cooperation. it is clear that better economic and trade relations can help to solve some of the social problems facing the mercosur countries. the committee on development stresses the need to strengthen support for social development, education, reducing social inequalities, more sustainable income distribution and poverty reduction. we also believe that it is worth supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, sustainable agriculture and tourism, and infrastructure investment while protecting the environment. the report also has the important advantage of strengthening mercosur's institutions, and one of the very positive ways of doing this would be to strengthen cooperation at parliamentary level.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank the house for its comments. i have taken careful note of them and i will convey them to my colleague, commissioner mandelson, for his consideration. for strategic and political reasons, the european commission is totally committed to negotiating and concluding an ambitious and balanced agreement with mercosur. therefore, such an agreement remains a priority. engaging in negotiations with other partners does not mean, by the way, that we are giving less priority to an agreement with mercosur. the treaty on venezuela’s accession has been signed by the mercosur members. however, in order for venezuela to be a full member, that treaty has to be ratified by the parliaments. we, the commission, do not foresee any major obstacles to the negotiation process as a result of the accession of venezuela. a lot has been said here about development. the eu is by far the biggest donor. we plan to pay out about eur 50 million for the period between 2007 and 2013. i believe that, for economic, cultural and political reasons, both the european parliament and the commission share the same view in respect of concluding an ambitious and balanced association agreement between the eu and mercosur. it is a strategic objective.
in place of the author. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we're seeing a rise in the importance of the fruit and vegetable market. this is due, among other things, to the increase in consumption and the interest of farmers in this production to improve their income situation. during the accession negotiations, the eu was not willing to resolve the soft fruit market problem positively, although there were good examples of solutions in the tomato, peach and citrus markets. 2004 was a difficult year for soft fruit producers in poland. i wrote my first letter to the former commissioner for agriculture, mr fischler, in july 2004. in parallel, the european commission started work on simplifying the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables in the european union, presenting a report in august 2004. in march 2005, the european parliament adopted an opinion on the matter. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment by the member states. as a result, in april and july 2005 we had two expert visits from the european commission to poland to study the issues of the soft fruit and cherry market in poland and to prepare a report. in 2005, polish soft fruit growers again had to contend with the unprofitability of production on this market. in 2006, the european parliament's committee on agriculture had a working visit to poland, where some meps were able to see firsthand the difficult situation that their polish colleagues were constantly talking about. by the way, i wonder if anyone in the commission has counted how many interpellations there have been on this matter by members. the visit to poland was the first to present a report by the european commission on the situation in the soft fruit and cherries for processing sector. this report is incomplete, it does not take into account, among other things, the lack of vertical integration, i.e. the link between the farmer and the processor. what is not mentioned is that the ownership structure of this industry is not based on the participation of the growers, but is dominated by foreign capital. the report does not present any scenarios of the expected future development of the soft fruit market. it turns out that all the problems in this market poland really has to solve alone. again, as in the two previous years, 2006 was also a very difficult year for the soft fruit growers, a crisis year indeed. the committee on agriculture has therefore asked for this to be accelerated and strengthened, and the result is today's debate and the resolution which parliament will adopt in tomorrow's vote. so, now that we have the final version, let's go over her transcripts. the report also calls for the eu to take action to improve the competitiveness of soft fruit in the eu. secondly, it took immediate action to curb excess imports of soft fruit from third countries at dumped prices. as we know, yesterday the dumping committee decided to impose provisional duties on frozen strawberries exported by chinese companies. the additional duties are to be set at 0%, 12,6% or 32,4%, as the case may be. thirdly, support mechanisms for producer groups should be introduced to give producers a stronger incentive to form groups, for example by doubling the aid rate for established and provisionally recognised groups. fourthly, other instruments should be introduced, such as special safeguard clauses (ssg), entry price mechanisms or the inclusion of soft fruit in the list of sensitive goods. fifthly, it is necessary to introduce a system of support for the processing of soft fruit such as strawberries and raspberries, similar to that currently applied to tomatoes, peaches and citrus fruits, in order to stabilise this market. as regards the last proposal, i know that commissioner fischer-boel, who is not here today, is rather sceptical about it, and it might be worth considering the introduction of area payments for soft fruit for processing. this would be in addition to the existing saps subsidies. a similar solution is proposed for the reform of the banana market, where the rules for calculating production subsidies expressed in tonnes are changed to area subsidies. in order to increase the competitiveness of the sector, these payments could be linked to the condition of compulsory participation in producer groups or organisations as well as to the compulsory sale of products under contract. the resolution also contains a number of other interesting actions and proposals. the soft fruit growers have lost three years and the current pace of reform of the market indicates that they will lose another two. the legislative proposals for the fruit and vegetable sector are not expected to be presented until april 2007.
member of the commission. thank you for your question. as far as i understood, it contains six points, and i will address them one by one. point one: yesterday, the commission services presented to the member states at the anti-dumping committee a draft regulation to impose provisional additional duties on imports of frozen strawberries from china. the written procedure for adoption by the commission is under way. regarding the second point, the issue of the low level of organisation in new member states will be considered in the framework of preparations for the proposal on reforming the common market organisation for fruit and vegetables. on point three, the commission proposed recently to simplify state aid rules so as to facilitate crisis support. in particular, it is proposed that, under certain conditions, aid to compensate for bad weather would be exempted from prior authorisation by the commission. point four concerns crisis management. the issue of crisis management will be considered in commission reform proposals for fruit and vegetables. concerning point five, the commission is not in favour of setting up eu subsidised grubbing-up programmes. however, member states have the possibility to implement national programmes provided that they meet state aid rules. finally, point six: promotion is indeed an important aspect. eu funds are available for promotion of programmes, and let me remind you that most of the above-mentioned aspects are being examined in the preparation process for the common market organisation reform proposals that the commission will table in the near future.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the fruit we're talking about is soft, but the fight for it has been tough since the beginning of this term. i am very pleased that the european parliament is understanding the plight of soft fruit farmers. as a member of the polish parliament, i thank all my colleagues for this. thank you for your kind approach to a problem that mainly concerns farmers in my country. i thank you for your solidarity, especially to my colleagues from the committee on agriculture, who have experienced the difficult situation firsthand during their visit to poland and their meetings with farmers. the draft resolution provides for measures to satisfy farmers and stabilise the soft fruit market, which is so important for the future of this important sector. protection against excessive imports, inclusion of soft fruit in the list of sensitive goods, increased aid for producer groups, compensation for not placing fruit on the market in a crisis situation are all much needed solutions. i hope that the demands of this resolution will not remain on paper and that the european commission will present concrete legislative proposals in due course. as a co-author of the resolution, i ask for her support in the vote.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate on the situation in the soft fruit and cherries sector for processing concludes more than two years of discussion on this important issue for european producers and processors. the lack of protection of the internal market, dumping, natural disasters, low prices, greed and dishonesty on the part of many purchasers have led to huge losses for fruit farmers, especially in the new member states, including poland, which accounts for two thirds of eu production. the worst affected by the difficult situation on the soft fruit market are farmers in the poorest region of europe, the lublin region, which accounts for one sixth of the production. i have raised this issue in various ways in my parliamentary work. i am therefore pleased that we are concluding our debate today with a specific resolution which gives us the opportunity to correct the mistakes made in the negotiations in copenhagen and to lay the foundations for the decision which thousands of farmers are awaiting. so i thank all the members for their cooperation and i encourage you to vote in favour of this resolution.
mr. chairman, please! we are debating the soft fruit sector at a time when the european commission, after nearly two years of efforts by many members of parliament, has decided to impose anti-dumping duties on frozen strawberries from china. this is a long-awaited decision which i hope will reduce the threat posed by the steadily increasing and dumped chinese frozen strawberry exports. i would also like to express the hope that the european commission will soon put into effect the other proposals contained in the draft resolution prepared by mr joseph daul and mr janusz wojciechowski, such as safeguard clauses, entry prices, compensation for losses in the event of adverse weather conditions or a market crisis, and a strong support mechanism for producer groups and organisations.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the ideology of human rights has played a very important role in weakening the destructive power of totalitarianism. but today, this ideology is beginning to turn, or is turning, into its own caricature. the right of all to everything, rights instead of duties, and the conversion of rights into privileges are the limits of the absurdity to which we are increasingly approaching. how beautifully it sounds: the agency for fundamental rights. but what will the agency look like, and what will it do? the justification for the proposal to set up the agency states that it needs to be given a wider mandate in order to better pursue the objectives of the union, including in the field of the common foreign policy. however, the principle of sovereignty and subsidiarity is threatened by the extension of the powers of the union institutions. it threatens, for example, to implement such curious acts as this recent european parliament resolution on xenophobia. the problem is how the agency is supposed to use its powers. will it deal with the real threats to human rights or with the stigmatization of governments that have somehow fallen foul of the eu majority? or perhaps it's the promotion of privileges for certain minorities or the absurdity of the lack of precision of terms like equality between men and women in every area that i've already spoken about from this podium. the agency's proposal would remove the institution of the fundamental rights forum, with the participation of representatives of social, professional, church, religious and philosophical organisations, giving them only a vague opportunity to cooperate with the agency. so it's all up to the officials and the politicians to determine the truth in the vote. the truth, of course, neutral in outlook. what does this neutrality look like in practice? consider a recent example: the european union is contributing to the united nations population fund, which in turn supports the practice of forced abortion in third-world countries. and during this year's budget debate, the amendments of the union for a europe of nations were returned, in which we demanded that the union not provide aid for programmes which involve forced abortion. this prohibition is based on the charter of fundamental rights, on the resolutions of the 1994 cairo international conference. this prohibition is not at all concerned with the question of the legality or illegality of abortion. it's about the right to choose, a basic human right, and one that's supposedly recognized by the majority in this house. however, the majority of the members of the committee on budgets rejected these three amendments, favouring coercion and opposing the charter of fundamental rights in relation to third countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances. last year, the western press gave a series of dramatic examples of this kind of action, and where were the human rights defenders, the women's rights defenders? it's not even a question of protecting unborn life, it's a question of respecting basic human rights. abortion advocates claim that the fetus is a part of the woman's body. ladies and gentlemen, if this were a case of forced amputation of an arm or a leg, i'm sure that rape would be raised in this case. but the fetus isn't even part of the body. because it's not. it's a living thing to some, but to others it's less than a part of the body. if the european union ignores the right of women to have children outside the union, how can it protect human rights within its borders? this is the mount everest of hypocrisy. liberal democracy by force, well done. after this last experience, i have serious doubts that the proposed fundamental rights agency will not be another tool in political games in which common sense will always be voted down.
mr. chairman, please! another agency. mr. parkinson is so happy from beyond the grave. anyone who believes that a group of highly paid officials can administratively improve human rights in any real way is at least naive. i don't want to use a stronger word. the creation of multiple offices in the spheres of political will, while the same political groups, the same parliament, stifle economic freedom which could produce the means for a real improvement in the lives of the peoples of europe, is a misunderstanding and a classic political error. so i ask you today, your honour, who will ensure the impartiality of this agency, where a hundred highly paid officials who are practically out of control in the field of substantive activities can turn it into a political weapon to fight inconvenient people or political opponents or to attack inconvenient governments that do not correspond to the so-called political correctness. in my opinion, this is an action that is inconsistent with the constitutions of at least some countries, and the introduction of the principles of a constitution that has been rejected by the side door. this is a dead end, and i think it's something that needs to be considered very seriously.
mr. chairman, please! we are not discussing here in the european parliament whether fundamental rights should be respected. we don't talk about whether human rights are the foundation of how we operate in the union. we are talking about whether another agency within our structures, another agency that will be spent tens of millions of euros, whether it is really an instrument that will help in respecting human rights, in respecting these rights on the ground not only in the member states, but also in the countries with which we establish relations. well, i strongly reject the thinking that has been presented by some people here that we need to convince our constituents that we care about something and to do that we need to create an agency. that's a wrong way of thinking, that's a wasteful way of thinking. our constituents won't be convinced that we care. voters will be convinced that we're spending their money, and therefore even more alienated from us. it is we, the european parliament, who are the human rights agency in europe. and we should, of course, be collecting data on human rights, but by spending money on supporting ngos, not on another agency within our structures.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to remind you that six months ago we set up the european institute for gender equality. now we're going to start another agency. i would like to begin by referring to the speech by my colleague, mrs roure. she said that my party, the ppe, speaks with different voices. imagine, madam deputy, that there are parties where it is permissible to differ. perhaps the socialists have one policy in place, but we have a different policy and i would like to support the speech by mr kirkhope. the european union agency for fundamental rights is intended to fill a gap in the union's action. its activities are to focus on the internal sphere of the european union, covering the institutions and the member states. unfortunately, very little attention has been paid to the external dimension, which is mainly concentrated in the candidate countries. the reasons for defining the scope of the agency's activities in this way are based on the belief that a coherent internal fundamental rights policy is essential for a credible presence in international human rights relations. however, i would like to point out that respect for fundamental rights is a much more serious problem in many countries outside the union, including those closest to russia and belarus. the agency should not therefore close its activities in the territory of the member states, whose actual human problems are a problem incomparably less than those outside its borders, not to mention the fact that institutions have been set up in each member state to look after fundamental rights, human rights. i think we have lost the chance and the opportunity to strengthen the external dimension of the european union's human rights policy. the proposal to set up the agency aims to extend the mandate of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia and to establish a european union agency for fundamental rights. it will establish a centre of expertise on fundamental rights at european union level. i would not object to that, with the caveat that the agency should also deal with human rights outside the european union. i would not have objected to that, except that the creation of another agency would cost the citizens of the european union over 150 million euros. why spend money on another institution with such a limited budget for 2007-2013
mr. chairman, please! one of the objectives of the european union is to strengthen the protection of the rights and interests of the citizens of the member states, and to protect freedoms and promote democracy based on fundamental rights. it is therefore important to provide assistance and expertise in the field of fundamental rights to the relevant institutions of the community and the member states. in the light of the extremely heated debate and political struggle that is currently taking place in poland, hungary and slovakia, i consider this project all the more justified. the european union agency for fundamental rights, established as the successor to the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, would be responsible for complementing the existing mechanisms for monitoring fundamental rights. however, it should be noted that the newly created european union body is based on independence and accountability. on the one hand, the independence of such an agency must be guaranteed, and on the other hand, it must be fully accountable to the institutions of the european union. therefore, both the decision-making process within the institution and the process of appointing its decision-making bodies must be transparent. the european parliament plays an important role in the field of fundamental rights and should therefore also be given special consideration when defining the agency's structures in order to strengthen its legitimacy. both the commission and parliament should be actively involved in the definition of the multiannual programming framework of that agency. in addition to the agency's main area of activity, which includes assistance to the institutions of the european union and the member states, the possibility of developing cooperation with third countries should be considered in order to ensure better implementation of community law and the internal policies of the european union. particular consideration should be given to cooperation with candidate countries, as this will enable the union to support their integration efforts in the field of aligning their national laws with community law. it is important that the activities of the agency take into account the scope of the council of europe in order to avoid overlapping responsibilities and to achieve synergies in the framework of cooperation between the two organisations.
mr president, commissioner frattini, i have to tell you something. the defence of human rights, civil rights and political freedoms in the modern world is one of the european union's most important areas of activity. the growing importance of the european union in international relations and the development of a common foreign policy require new institutions to enable the community's political and economic potential to be fully exploited. the development of the existing european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia and the extension of its remit to become the agency for fundamental rights is laying the foundations for an agency that could become one of the major european institutions in the coming years. in order to fulfil this task, the fundamental rights agency should have extended competences in the areas of intergovernmental police and judicial cooperation, justice, immigration and counter-terrorism. in particular, the role of the european parliament in determining the mandate and structure of the agency should be strengthened. the agency should be required to consult the european parliament on the multiannual framework and on candidates for the post of director of that institution. the agency should be open to the participation of candidate countries and those with which a stabilisation and association agreement has been signed. it is necessary for the future agency to establish a scientific committee to ensure the high intellectual quality of its work. the agency should closely cooperate and coordinate its activities with the council of europe. i would also like to stress that the tasks of the agency, which is being set up in place of the existing monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, should continue to cover the phenomena of racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism, as well as the protection of the rights of persons belonging to minorities as the main elements related to the protection of fundamental rights. all agency reports shall take full account of gender issues.
mr president, before i move on to the last point, i want, on behalf of many members of this house, to express my deep sadness and discontent. the fact that we are not voting on the resolution on the death of the russian journalist politkovskaya on today's agenda is, in my view, a political and human error on the part of this house. i hope that my colleagues, especially those in the socialist group, will understand this message.
there is a proposal to replace the 50,000 in the sixth paragraph with 40,000, so as not to change the rules that have been in place. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr. chairman, please! there were demonstrations in italy yesterday against the forced labor camps in that country. i fully sympathize with the demonstrators, and at the same time i would like to recall that my political group, the uen, asked for a debate on the situation of foreign workers in the countries of the union at the beginning of september. this is not just an italian problem, but also, to varying degrees, an issue in other countries. the european parliament cannot remain silent on this issue, we need to speak out strongly and in particular call on the member states not to allow such drastic violations of human rights. the citizens are demanding this and parliament should not be silent any more, which is why i repeat the request for a debate put forward by the uen group.
mr. chairman, please! there have been times in the last two years when we have been very different: the president of the european parliament, mr borrell, and many polish meps. there were times when most polish mps were critical of the president's opinion of our country. but today is the moment when i would like to thank the president of parliament - also on behalf of many polish members - for his attitude at the last summit in lahti. the french newspaper libération said that president borrell was one of five european leaders, along with the polish president and the prime ministers of sweden, denmark and latvia, who had the courage to criticize russia. i thank president borrell for saying that the union will not trade human rights for energy. thank you for asking if russia is still a democracy. europe will remember president borrell's speech, and the countries of central and eastern europe will remember his courage. i would like to thank the president of parliament in his own language: gracias, señor presidente.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's priority is to create a common energy market that is the most efficient, secure and competitive. however, it should be borne in mind that the european union's energy policy is not limited to the energy sector, and the three objectives of energy policy are to ensure energy security, to ensure competitiveness, to protect the environment and, in particular, to combat climate change. as is well known, the construction of the internal energy market is achieved indirectly by the harmonisation of the laws of the member states and directly by the liberalisation of national energy markets. however, as with cooperation in the internal market, a common, coherent strategy and broad cooperation are needed with the eu's external partners. it is therefore all the more gratifying that, for the first time in many years, the european union countries at the last summit in lahti tried to speak with one voice about energy cooperation with russia, without being misled by the vision of the benefits that certain european union countries could derive from privileged contacts with russia.
mr. chairman, please! this month i attended two important events: the conference on simplification of the common agricultural policy organised by the european commission and the congress of european farmers in strasbourg organised by copa/cogeca. i have heard many times that europe needs a clear strategy for agriculture and the future of farmers. what do we got? every few years, we're offered new reforms. farmers need stability to plan production and investments. we must remember that without any aid, european agriculture will have great difficulty in competing with imports from other countries. we are already losing because the demands on our farmers are much higher and the conditions of production are often more difficult. we need to explain to the public, and to some members of the european parliament, why the cap exists, what its benefits are, and why consumers have to pay the cost of running it.
mr. chairman, please! the schengen information system is the most complex information transfer system linked to a computerised database. in its current form, the scheme has the capacity to serve no more than 18 participating countries. however, it was not designed to serve the increased number of countries in the european union after its enlargement. this has, among other things, made it necessary to develop a new second generation schengen information system, sis ii. the new member states would like to join this area as soon as possible. this was originally planned for october 2007. three weeks ago, the european commission confirmed the one-year delay. commissioner frattini stated that the new sis ii information system should be operational as soon as june 2008. however, this is not entirely true, as this date only applies to the old member states. new ones, like poland, will be connected later. our experts have calculated that it could be as early as mid-2009. we can't afford to delay this much. we can understand that the system needs refinement, but the mid-2009 deadline is unacceptable. we want our citizens who travel to feel that they are finally full citizens of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating mr carlos coelho and all the political groups on their balanced and rational work on the sis ii package. however, i also agree with the rapporteur that the council's attempt to amend the compromise already reached in the trilogue is unacceptable. the most important thing for us now is to get the package through the first reading. the sis ii package brings more security, better protection of personal data, and tighter border controls. it also allows for an expansion of the areas of freedom and security for all citizens living and travelling in the european union, not just for citizens of new countries. however, as important as the adoption of the law is its implementation, we look forward to discussing the implementation of sis ii in the presence of commissioner frattini. i would point out that no information has been presented to parliament so far on the reasons and extent of the delays in the construction of the central sis ii hub. we therefore look forward to the conclusions of the audit report announced by commissioner kallasa on the european commission's work on the construction of sis ii, as both this audit report and the upcoming eu council summit to decide on the timetable for the abolition of border controls with the new member states will be a good opportunity to debate this important issue for ordinary people. sis ii is established to fulfil the commitments made at the highest political level in the treaty of amsterdam, the accession treaty and the hague programme. the timely implementation of these provisions is a question of the european union's credibility, whether it is delivering on its commitments and whether it is able to deliver the concrete goods and benefits it has promised to deliver to its citizens.
mr. chairman, please! delaying the enlargement of the schengen area will have political and financial consequences for the new eu member states. political, because the division between equals and those who are more equal in the union will not only not disappear, but will deepen. but the financial impact will also be severe, as the main costs of the delay will fall on the new member states. i therefore hope that these costs will be largely covered by the european union budget, as the eight countries associated with the salzburg forum have requested. i also expect the commission to stop playing dirty with the new member states. the commission knew the scale of the delays long before, but kept it hidden from the public. moreover, it is planned that the old member states will be able to connect to sis ii in june 2008 and the new member states in an unknown future, possibly not until the end of 2009. such discrimination against the new member states is simply unacceptable.
mr. chairman, please! citizens of the old union have enjoyed freedom of movement under the schengen system since 1985, but after the enlargement of the union, there was no room for citizens of the new member states. they are still being controlled to cross the border, they have to wait patiently at the borders for long hours. it is time to put an end to the division between the old and the new union, between the better union, whose citizens enjoy the freedom of movement guaranteed by the treaty, and the worse union, where time has stopped for 1985. is it not paradoxical that, despite the fact that the eu border agency frontex is located in a new member state, in warsaw, poles, like citizens of other countries, are still not able to fully enjoy freedom of movement within the union? let us therefore, in the first reading, accept the three reports we are discussing today and tear down the visible border which still stands between the old and the new union, like a great wall. it's our duty. in conclusion, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have expressed their solidarity with the new member states today.
mr. chairman, please! schengen is one of those eu projects that makes citizens of the member states aware of the benefits of the european union, not just the ease of travel, but also border control and better fight against crime. parliament is just keeping its word and meeting its deadlines, and the commission is much worse off. we still have unclear dates for the extension of the system to the new eu countries, and we finally have a setback in the form of the sis i plus proposal to treat the old and new eu countries separately in terms of time. poland, like other central european countries, introduced costly and politically difficult requirements for its eastern neighbours as early as 2003. i wonder how commissioner frattini intends to explain to the polish, czech or hungarian public, perhaps as late as 2009, the entry of our countries into the schengen area. i wonder if we'll ever know the exact reasons for this delay. perhaps it is that strasbourg has too many central eu institutions and cannot cope with it, perhaps instead of the technical problems of implementing sis ii we have the political reluctance of some member states to implement the treaty in the field of internal affairs. until i get answers to these questions, i can't shake these dark doubts.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the enormous problem of migration, especially of women, due to the increasing globalization and the complexities of modern life, should also be seen in terms of the unrecoverable losses to the country from which people emigrate. another problem is the growing poverty of countries exploited by the rich and highly developed countries. the ability to leave your homeland is probably a plus. but immigrants are separated from a community united by history, tradition and culture. a man who could contribute to the increase of the common good leaves, but, having begun life in a culture and language foreign to him, he works for the good of another society, in which his forced situation is often exploited. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. in addition, it is important to have a proper hierarchy of values, to care not only for material goods but also for moral ones, taking into account the deep meaning of human work, but without interfering in the personal lives of women in relation to childbearing and family formation.
mr. chairman, please! the modern world is a scene of mass migration of all kinds. we have economic migration, or earnings migration, which is aimed at improving material status, and it's the most widespread. we also have migration that is about reuniting families, and migration that is about persecution in the country of origin. in today's world, where technology is making it easier and cheaper to travel, the problem of immigration will only grow. so we have to deal with the growing influx of immigrants, especially in europe. the sensible solution, and the farsighted one, should be to avoid discrimination against foreigners, especially women, who make up the majority. today too many immigrants are marginalized. the member states of the union should create better conditions for the assimilation of foreigners into our societies, while respecting their origins. this will avoid the problem of alienation of immigrants, which is a source of frustration, sometimes of social revolt and very often of poverty.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the next item is the commission statement on the transposition measures for the transparency and issuance prospectus directives (level 2).
member of the commission. mr president, i shall briefly touch on the two topics. as regards the equivalence decision, it is right to postpone it. it is the most efficient way to promote the use of ifrs. it gives us leverage in our efforts to obtain the removal of reconciliation requirements for eu issuers abroad, as it ensures that eu markets remain attractive to foreign issuers. it will benefit eu investors and issuers alike. i am aware of the concerns of members of the european parliament and others regarding many of these issues, but a clear roadmap has been set out. if there is goodwill on all sides we will reach a satisfactory end, but in any event if we do not reach a satisfactory outcome then, as we say in my country, nothing is lost. so i think that the prolongation of the time period is the correct decision for many reasons. first, so that we give ourselves here in europe an opportunity to see how ifrs has been implemented in the various member states – and we will be learning in that process as well. we have a clear commitment from our colleagues in the united states as to the roadmap and the time lines there and, all things being equal, we should reach a satisfactory conclusion. but if we do not and if we are not satisfied, then, as i say, nothing is lost. worldwide more people are moving to the ifrs accounting standards which europe adopted as from last year, so therefore it will be to our benefit. concerning the great question posed by mr radwan and others about this question of convergence and equivalence, let us see where we are in the few short years hence. on the transparency directive, i shall deal with the point raised by mr skinner. his point relates to a provision in the recital of the level 1 directive, and this recital stipulates that payments by the extractive industries should be reported. this as such is not the subject of today’s debate, but i can confirm that the commission will monitor this issue. concerning the implementing measures to the transparency directive, i should also add that i understand some of the concerns expressed in relation to future developments. in this regard, the commission commits itself to making a declaration that will be added to the minutes of the european securities committee on the date of the vote on the draft implementing measures. it should state that the commission undertakes to re-examine the issue of the auditors’ review of half-yearly financial statements once the work in relation to the international standards on auditing, currently under development, is sufficiently advanced. the commission will also re-examine, within two years of the final deadline for transposition, the question of the minimum content of the condensed set of half-yearly financial statements that are not prepared in accordance with international accounting standards. the commission also undertakes to conduct a review of how the regulated information is disseminated in practice pursuant to the obligations of the transparency directive and the future implementing directive. this could be undertaken two years after the end of the transposition period for the implementing directive. in this way we will ensure that the transparency directive tools are adapted to improvements in the market.
i have received two draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a financial instrument for the environment (life+) (06284/1/2006 - c6-0226/2006 - 2004/0218 (cod)) (rapporteur: marie anne isler béguin) (a6-0288/2006) - debate on the oral question to the commission on the financing of the natura 2000 network addressed by karl-heinz florenza on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0113/2006 - b6-0441/2006).
mr. chairman, please! the first reading of the live+ regulation introduced numerous amendments. we unanimously agreed that this financial instrument does not meet the environmental challenges. the main problem was the limited financial resources for implementing all policies in this area. the financial arrangements with the council and the commission did not translate into an environmental budget for the next seven years. the dispute between mrs sinnott and the majority of the member states is a bit abstract in my view, because i would actually have a clearer conscience in voting on this report if i were sure that the money allocated to individual countries would go to environmental projects. the problem is that they go to staff, not to environmental projects. and that's the thing that i think is really forcing us to intervene. i would like to conclude by saying, mr president, that in the face of a crisis of vision for the future of europe and of scepticism towards the european institutions, ecology can be the common point of reference for many citizens of the member states of the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. late payment is a major cause of insolvency that threatens the future of enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. in particular, such entities are at risk in their day-to-day operations, in their solvency and this often leads to the loss of many jobs. therefore, the swift and effective recovery of outstanding debts for which there are no legal disputes is of particular importance for economic operators in the european union. it simply means protecting jobs. member states have attempted to address the problem of the massive recovery of uncontested claims, which is mostly a simplification of the order for payment procedure. however, there are sometimes major differences in the content of national legislation and the functioning of the various procedures. as a result, they are impracticable or even inadmissible in cross-border situations. the proposed regulation establishing a european order for payment procedure should therefore be welcomed.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, the democrats and liberals pay tribute to the hungarian revolution of 1956, to the courage and determination of the hungarian people in their struggle for freedom, to the memory of the victims of repression and to the suffering of a whole people. 1956 was a pivotal year in the history of contemporary europe. in june 1956, as you recalled, mr president, the uprising of polish workers in poznan was bloody repressed. the liberalisation of the regime in poland in october 1956 was short-lived. this year was marked by events in hungary. the hungarian revolution was popular, national and anti-communist. the soviet army crushed it without mercy. the streets of budapest were the scene of bloody repression, and terror and oppression were long established in hungary. we commemorate that anniversary today without trying to settle accounts with the past. but to record these events in the annals of european freedom and to feel a sense of community, the european union needs a common memory. the heroism of the men and women of 1956 cannot be forgotten. we must remember imre nagy, a communist who became the protagonist of the anti-communist revolution, who was secretly and cowardly murdered. we must remember istván bibó, a great thinker and man of action in the service of freedom and democracy, who was thrown into prison and condemned to silence until the end of his life. it should not be forgotten that europe, although indignant at the tragedy of 1956, remained silent and powerless. this is a lesson for europe today and tomorrow. it must be strong, united, united. it must find its raison d'être in freedom, democracy and respect for the rights of man and of peoples. and in hungary today, we should hope that the hungarian people and their leaders will draw from the courage of 1956 the strength to find the wisdom to put the public good and the common interest above political disputes. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. the alarming figures on female morbidity and mortality from breast cancer require not only a resolution urging the commission and the member states to prevent the epidemic and to carry out screening, but also prevention, which should be based on the avoidance of risk factors. it would therefore also be advisable to draw logical conclusions from the observations of existing studies which show that breast cancer is largely the consequence not only of toxic damage but primarily of hormonal disorders resulting from the use of hormonal contraception from an early age, hormone replacement therapy or as a consequence of abortion. breast cancer is also common in women who have never had children, in women who are late in pregnancy and late in menopause, and the more children a woman has had, the less likely she is to develop not only breast cancer but also endometrial or ovarian cancer. the reasons for the increase in the incidence of the disease are also due to the feminist view of women, who are deprived of motherhood, and who are used as potential labour force, who are almost forced to control their lives, which are called reproductive, which in this sense acquires animal characteristics. according to psycho-oncology, the increase in cancer is not without its correlation with the increase in various mental disorders, especially depression, which causes a decrease in immunity and the development of cancer. therefore, the solution is to spread the civilization of life, rather than the prevailing idea of the logic of decay.
madam president! the statistics on cancer in the european union are alarming. breast cancer is the second most common cancer after lung cancer. every two minutes a new case is detected and every six minutes a woman in the union dies from the disease. the best way to fight breast cancer is to get regular screenings and promote effective cancer detection. the number of deaths could be reduced by as much as 35 percent by universal mammography, provided that the tests are carried out regularly and are generally available. despite the fact that eu standards have been in place for 15 years, almost half of the eu countries still do not have regular testing programmes. that's got to change. as the european parliament, we expect a clear response on what action the european commission is taking to help member states achieve the target of, among other things, reducing the average mortality rate by 25% by 2008. a coordinated strategy at union level to combat breast cancer is absolutely essential. it's time to do something about it. breast cancer kills more than 100,000 women every year.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for her excellent work, because we know very well that the audiovisual sector in the union is a very important part of our economy. it employs over a million people. it also plays a huge social and cultural role, since almost every european family has a television set. unfortunately, and i say this with regret, european film production accounts for only 26% of the european film market, compared to 71% of american production. i disagree with my predecessor that it's imposing anything. we really have to give the european audience a choice, but a good european production, because those percentages i was talking about just now do not reflect the quality of the films we have the opportunity to watch. it is therefore hoped that media 2007 will help to change this proportion. the aim of the project is to promote the use of digital technologies in the audiovisual sector, to promote the development of new technologies and to promote the use of digital technologies in the audiovisual sector. the digital media are, of course, one of the ways to overcome the fragmentation and undercapitalisation of the european film market, but above all to improve the distribution system in the european market, but also in international markets. technological developments in the context of digital services now allow for a better dissemination of european audiovisual work. however, the absence of private sector involvement, particularly in the context of the financing of audiovisual projects, will not allow the full implementation of media 2007. the current offer of credit for audiovisual productions is far from sufficient, especially for films made by small and medium-sized producers. the same goes for scholarships for young filmmakers. i hope that the media 2007 programme will not be wasted.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament once again, and above all the committee on culture and education, its chairman and its rapporteur, for their valuable help in the interests of european creativity and film diversity. i share the view and the concerns of the members who say that, unfortunately, the funding is not up to our standards. we haven't received the funding we requested. i'm sorry, but that's a fact. the new programme, with its smaller budget, should therefore be seen as an opportunity to reset the counters and concentrate on those actions which have a real european added value, by asking national governments to take over the other actions. as the rapporteur has already explained very well, we shall stick to the actions which have proved their worth over the years. however, it will be added, for example, support for video on demand which will become a priority. we will also support digitisation, which is an opportunity especially for the circulation of european works, and we will improve support for distribution to create the synergies needed in the age of online film. we will also introduce a new action to support the presence of european films in emerging markets on other continents. these are the most important elements of this initiative, which has the almost unanimous agreement of the european parliament, the council of ministers and also the profession. i am grateful, mr president, for the help of parliament, which will be understood by the spectators and by the image-makers on the outside.
member of the commission. mr president, i am pleased to be here at the end of the second round of negotiations. i sense a very positive feeling about proceeding with the final vote and decision. we are now looking at the range of programmes for which i am responsible, including youth, education and the citizenship programme. we start with culture. this is highly symbolic and very important because we believe that, as in the past, culture can provide many important answers to the future of europe. let me remind you that in december 2004 president barroso said that cultural values rank higher than economic ones, because the economy helps us to live, but it is culture that makes life worth living. i am pleased to say that an excellent climate of cooperation between our institutions characterised the whole legislative process and brought us to a very satisfactory compromise. i should particularly like to thank the rapporteur, mr graça moura, for his excellent work and, for similar reasons, the whole committee on culture and education, under its chairman mr sifunakis. its support for this programme is an important contribution to the forthcoming decision. i am also very pleased that the general line proposed by the commission in the original proposal has been welcomed by both parliament and the council. the next culture programme will thus promote, firstly, the transnational mobility of people working in the cultural sector, secondly, the transnational circulation of works of art, as well as of artistic and cultural products, and, thirdly, intercultural dialogue. i am equally convinced that the programme will contribute to the flourishing of multilateral cooperation within europe, as well as to the development of a european identity, thanks to the interactions which we encourage between citizens. we will have eur 400 million at our disposal. i also wish to thank the european parliament for its support. we might envisage more support, but we first have to be aware of the limits and, secondly, support is growing and there will be more opportunities to organise cooperation. however, as mr graça moura has just said, we need to be efficient. i want to confirm that the commission is able to accept the three amendments contained in the report; they correspond to the compromise between our three institutions. i very much hope that the next culture ministers’ council in november will reach a final decision.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i agree with the overall objective of the programme, which is to strengthen the cultural space shared by europeans and to strengthen the sense of european citizenship. they're all good goals. i am surprised to find, however, in one of the council's common position documents of june this year, that the culture programme (2007-2013) is intended to contribute to, and i quote: to strengthening the community's cross-cutting objectives by contributing to the elimination of all discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. the community's cross-cutting objectives - what is the novelty, what is the vocabulary? so, are european cultural projects supposed to promote equality and equal opportunities? so is it the time of the art of engagement again? will the alleged discriminatory language of future projects therefore be the primary criterion for evaluation? so perhaps the centre for monitoring racism and xenophobia in vienna or the recently established institute for gender equality should be consulted on the projects. i would like to point out that i have not found such a reference to the previous edition of culture 2000. for over 50 years, europe has been divided. let this programme therefore serve to better understand and to know the diversity of the culture of the peoples of europe, the culture stifled in central and eastern europe by communist totalitarianism. this should be the main theme of the new edition of the culture programme (2007-2013). culture in the service of cultural integration of the 27 member states, not of ideological integration. culture must be free, and only then will the promotion of freedom serve it best.
, on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the standard of living of nations is determined by their material goods, and their identity by their culture in the broadest sense. culture is the wealth of nations, and the strength of their survival and development. culture is also the plane of communication and integration between peoples. culture develops in the process of history, does not like brutal interventions and imposing directions on it. culture needs freedom. the culture programme (2007-2013) presented for debate aims to streamline and narrow down the number of objectives, to promote the transnational mobility of people working in the cultural sector, to promote the transnational circulation of works and artistic products, and to promote international dialogue. from a simplified perspective of european integration, the proposed objectives are understandable. from the point of view of the development of culture, its significance and its multifunctionality, this narrowing is too great to be accepted calmly. it is necessary to act to protect and support cultural resources, especially where they are threatened.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the uen group, i would like to begin by congratulating and thanking both of our rapporteurs for their enormous work. this year we have a very interesting situation, because the modest budget of the commission has been cut only slightly by the council, while the committee on budgets of the parliament proposes to raise commitments and payments above the ceilings proposed by the commission. this is of course to be welcomed, as only a larger budget can meet the challenges facing the union, such as the impending enlargement or the growing competition in the world. it is only to be hoped that this compromise will be reached in november and bring the european budget closer to parliament's position than to that of the council. since the council is traditionally keen to cut spending, it is good that mr elles has proposed a value for money approach which is designed to make it more effective in achieving its objectives. given that the 2007 budget is the first budget of the new financial framework, it is to be hoped that it can become a good omen for the years to come. i would like to take this opportunity to call again on all those who are really concerned about human rights to support the amendments to the uen, which call for an end to the union's funding of programmes supporting forced abortion in third countries. i repeat, forced abortion, not abortion itself, forced. the rejection of these amendments will be tantamount to supporting practices which clearly violate fundamental human rights, and will be proof of the hypocrisy of all those who constantly talk about human rights and at the same time take part in their violation.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs. but that doesn't change the fact that the 2007 budget is bad. most parliamentarians know this, but only a small minority have the courage to speak out. the budget is bad because it does not address, or even attempt to address, any of the key problems facing the european union, such as the slowdown in economic growth or the growing disparity in development between the countries of the old and the new union. the 2007 budget is wrong because it also fails to address the new challenges facing the societies and economies of the member states, namely the destabilisation of the raw materials market, including the sharp rise in energy prices, and secondly, and particularly importantly, the massive labour migration from the newly admitted countries to the old union countries and the associated rapidly increasing social and economic costs in the poor countries. the 2007 budget could be a prelude to a new approach to agricultural financing if the ind/dem amendments were adopted. however, given the resistance they have met in the agriculture committee and the budget committee, we have no doubt that they will be rejected by parliament, which will reveal the strength of the big landowners' and agribusiness lobby and thus reveal the true face of a parliament that defends the interests of a rich minority against the vast majority of poor farmers. it should be stressed that the money saved could be used to support entrepreneurship, research and development and infrastructure investments. the 2007 budget increases administrative expenditure, and new offices and agencies are created. we are strongly opposed to this. in conclusion, the independence and democracy group will vote against the 2007 budget and we hope that our position will be shared by the other members of this house.
mr. chairman, please! at this crucial stage of the 2007 budget, i have the impression that the european parliament is taking more account than the council of the priorities, figures and rules for interinstitutional cooperation agreed between us for the 2007-13 multiannual financial perspective. as people elected by the people, we also have a deep understanding of the anxiety that exists in the member states, the anxiety that the new generation of multiannual programmes will be launched on time. this will be one of the main criteria for the evaluation of 2007. we also share the general demand for a new financial regulation and hence our pressure on the finnish presidency to work in 2007 on the basis of the new financial regulation. the slogan that is being repeated regularly this year, that we are striving for budget rationalization, is no longer just a slogan. our rapporteur, james elles, has proposed and has won the support of parliament for a very consistent position. the strongest lines are given priority funding, while those budget lines where there is doubt about their use are given a 30% reserve. there shouldn't be any difference between us. the point of contention will surely be the issue of employment and pay in the administration. in our view, the new functions of the european union require motivation, the stabilisation of the administrative staff and recruitment from the new member states. and that's probably going to be a point of contention between us during the november conciliation process. i am not entirely satisfied with the geographical orientation, because our main commitment is to the european continent. the larger the european union, the greater the responsibility for europe and this should be reflected in the geographical orientations of the allocation of funds. but we are leaving the margins, we are not going to use the flexibility instrument, compromise should also be facilitated this year, and our argument should be the strength of the vote we get on thursday in the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! the 2007 budget is not only the first budget of the new financial framework for 2007-13, but also the first budget of the 27 member states plus romania and bulgaria. for at least two of these reasons, it should be as high as possible on the expenditure side. the 2007-2013 financial framework provides that payments may amount to a maximum of 1,06 of the gross national product of the european union. unfortunately, the european commission proposed in its draft payment of only 116 billion euros, or just 0.99 of the national product of the european union, and the council of the european union proposed a further cut of 1.75 billion euros. in this context, the position of the european parliament's committee on budgets, which proposed payments of eur 121.9 billion, or 1.04 of gross national product, is to be welcomed, i.e. eur 5.1 billion more than the european commission wanted. i would like to express the hope that the proposals of the committee on budgets will be accepted by the european parliament and will be effectively defended in the negotiations with the council and the european commission.
mr. chairman, please! 2007 will be the first year of the new seven-year financial perspective. it is therefore particularly important that the european union institutions now define precisely the real needs and priorities for the coming years. while operating on the basis of budgetary discipline and increasing efficiency, we should also move away from the practice of adopting very high spending margins, which has often led to a loss of funds in the past. it is also essential to continue the existing strategy of buying second-hand buildings, which, by generating savings, makes it possible to finance other projects in the long term. a review of the personnel management policy, especially with regard to outsourcing, which may lead to a weakening of the functioning of the institution through lack of continuity and stability, appears necessary. the current priority in employment policy must be the enlargement positions. this process should also be complemented by information on the deployment of new staff. the reductions proposed by the council in the budgets of the individual institutions should not be an end in themselves. in view of the enlargement of 2004 and the enlargement to come, the overriding objective must be to ensure the smooth functioning of all the eu institutions. i would like to conclude by congratulating both rapporteurs on the excellent document they have produced and all of us on the good compromise and the ambitious budget.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 5.05 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
member of the commission. the only certain date is 1 january 2007 for slovenia, although it is true that in june the european council endorsed the commission's proposal and the ecofin council confirmed that lithuania meets almost all the conditions for joining the euro area. i said in my reply that cyprus and malta want to join the euro area from 1 january 2008, but the analysis and assessment of whether they meet the criteria has yet to be carried out. and i said in my reply that slovakia wants to be a member of the euro area on 1 january 2009, and it will have to be assessed in due course whether or not it meets the conditions. in our next convergence report, which will be adopted by the commission and known to this parliament in december, we will assess to what extent, or to what extent, at that precise moment, the countries with a derogation meet or do not meet the conditions. but the member state concerned has to fulfil the conditions prior to the date on which it wants to join the euro area. the lithuanian authorities had a target date and now have to set a new date. when i visited lithuania in september, that new date was not decided. i have no record of any such thing being done between my last visit and now. my insistence to the lithuanian authorities and to those of other states in similar circumstances is to ask for the strategy before the date, because without a strategy the dates that can be decided will have to be modified over time, because the decision on the date alone is not enough to meet the criteria that are to be demanded.
member of the commission. mr martin, i understand the frustration of the candidates for the single currency who see that their candidacy is not successful because they do not meet, for example, the inflation criterion, and they see, at the same time, that some member states of the euro zone, which have belonged to it since 1999 or 2001, remain members without meeting, in some cases, the inflation criterion, in others, the deficit criterion, in others, the debt criterion. those member states that do not meet the budgetary discipline criteria 'deficit and debt' are subject to the instruments provided for in the treaty, through the mechanisms of the stability and growth pact. and i must say, in the face of some opinions which ventured that the new stability pact was going to be ineffective, too flexible, that now the pact is being applied with all rigor and one hundred per cent. since the entry into force of the new pact, there has not been a single discrepancy in the council in taking note of and supporting the commission's proposals and there has not been a single failure in the euro area member states to comply with the recommendations adopted by the council, on a proposal from the commission, to restore budgetary discipline. there have been those outside the euro area, but not in the euro area. on the other hand, there are some euro-area member states which have inflation above the reference value of 2.8 mentioned above. there are no instruments to act on a euro area member state when its inflation is above the reference value. there is a very powerful instrument, but it is not in the hands of the commission, parliament or the council. it is a market instrument, because those member states are losing competitiveness and their citizens and businesses are paying the consequences of the loss of competitiveness, which can no longer be recovered by changes in the exchange rates of the currency by definition, because they have adopted a single currency.
member of the commission. mr mitchell, the commission does not expect the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union to have any immediate effect on the composition of the euro area. after their accession on 1 january, both countries will participate in economic and monetary union as member states with a derogation and will take part fully in the exercise of multilateral surveillance of economic policies, as provided for in the treaty, as will the member states of the union which do not belong to the euro area. as soon as they join the european union, bulgaria and romania, being non-euro area members and not having an opt-out clause, will have to pursue compliance with the convergence criteria in order to be able to adopt the euro in the future. but for the other euro-zone member states, i see no immediate effect beyond the very positive fact of having two new member states in the union.
member of the commission. mr mitchell, it is true that the euro area, and the european union as a whole, is growing even in 2006, when an obvious economic recovery has begun. but despite this economic recovery, we are still seeing lower growth than expected when economic and monetary union entered its third phase, and in some ways one can try to establish a link between this low growth, compared with other areas of the world economy, and the existence of the single currency or the existence of economic and monetary union as such. i think that the most rigorous analyses, not only those made by the commission but also by other institutions outside the european union, come to the conclusion, as do we, that the obstacles to growth in europe and in particular in the major economies of the euro area are basically, fundamentally, structural in nature. so, along with respect for the rules of operation and the rules of budgetary discipline, or the independence of the european central bank in designing economic and monetary union, we must put the emphasis on structural growth policies, which is what we call, in our jargon, the policies of the lisbon strategy. it seems that a combination of sound, stability-oriented macroeconomic policies and ambitious structural reform policies is what our economies need. from this point of view, enlargement, the arrival of ten new members in may 2004, has been a stimulus, an incentive and a positive boost for the european economies as a whole. a few months ago, in may 2006, coinciding with the second anniversary of the arrival of ten new member states, the commission published a communication on the economic consequences of enlargement under my responsibility. our assessment of the economic consequences of enlargement has been very positive; very positive for the new member states and also for the old ones, for the european union of 15, among other things because the new member states are generally showing a greater capacity to implement structural reforms and to address the necessary structural changes. it is true that they are starting from a situation of greater backwardness, and they have introduced a dynamism, a positive pressure, which is also encouraging the economies of the former european union to accelerate the pace of implementation of structural policies. in fact, i believe that some of the positive impacts of structural reforms towards higher growth may be starting to be felt in this recovery phase. it is too early to say to what extent the productivity improvements which are being seen in the first two quarters of this year are due exclusively to reasons linked to the business cycle. the european central bank tends to think that virtually all the productivity gains in recent quarters are related to the business cycle, but i think there are some indications that the structural reforms that have been adopted in recent years and whose pace is beginning to accelerate thanks to the positive impact of enlargement are also beginning to play a positive role in this productivity improvement.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading, drawn up on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a programme for 2007-2013 entitled 'youth in action' (06236/3/2006 - c6-0273/2006 - 2004/0152 (cod)) (rapporteur: lissa gröner) (a6-0341/2006).
member of the commission. thank you to everyone who has joined the discussion, which will continue in some way - of course, in the next phases, especially in the implementation of the programme. i think the consensus is obvious. i do not need to answer or react too much, but i consider it very important that the intensity and level of cooperation or involvement in the field of youth in the union is increasing, not only because of demographic problems but also because of the overall perspective of european cooperation, belonging and integration. recently, a few years after the white paper was adopted, the youth pact was adopted. now we have a chance to start a new youth program that means both a quantitative and a qualitative space. and that's very important. both in the fact that the age range is widening, but also in the fact that the budget is increasing significantly. we have of course proposed more, but this too must be seen within the limits, or rather the scope, of the financial perspective. in addition, there is a growing space for young people, for example in the lifelong learning programme, but also in the citizenship or civic cooperation programme, and in the external programmes in the community's external actions. for example, i was in canada to prepare a bilateral agreement that would cover not only university cooperation but also the youth field bilaterally between the eu and canada. these specific lines of cooperation in the youth field with partner countries are increasing and growing. i'm sure it will bear fruit. and thirdly, it is very important that we do not formulate a policy for young people only, but with young people, because that is when it is more effective, more successful and i think also more civically mature for the future of a common europe.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m. annex - commission declarationthe commission would draw the attention of the legislature to the need for the financial envelope referred to in the basic act to be expressed at current prices at the latest at the time of final publication of the oj. this corresponds to the usual budgetary practice and allows to ensure in all clarity the respect of the decision of the legislative authority. for the youth in action programme, the current price is 885 million euros.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading, drawn up on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing an action programme in the field of lifelong learning (06237/3/2006 - c6-0274/2006 - 2004/0153 (cod)) (rapporteur: doris pack) (a6-0344/2006).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the purpose of this decision is to establish an integrated programme in the field of lifelong learning by the european parliament and the council, to be implemented in the period 2007-13. it involves, inter alia, the development of international cooperation between universities and schools and the development of mobility of students, staff, pupils and teachers. it consists of four sectoral programmes: comenius - for school education, erasmus - for higher education, leonardo da vinci - for vocational education and training and grundtvig - for adult education. due to the reduction of the budget of the programme compared to the initial version, the quantitative objectives for the individual components of the programme as well as the percentage of the resources have been reduced. the reduced financial resources meant that a number of previously planned actions were not implemented. these include short- and long-term teacher mobility under erasmus, study visits and innovation and experimental projects under the cross-sectoral programme. in line with the assumptions of the new financial perspective for 2007-13, the budgetary allocation for the implementation of the lifelong learning programme has been reduced from the initially planned eur 13 620 million to eur 7 171 million, i.e. by almost half. the reduction in the programme budget means, on the one hand, fewer grants for projects and, on the other, fewer opportunities for especially poorer students to study abroad. in closing, i would like to thank mrs. doris pack for her tremendous work.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the excellent idea and the purpose of the lifelong learning programme, which is intended to implement one of the pillars of the union, namely the common social policy, has been cut as usual by the limitation of funds. one of its aims is to support the contribution of learning to social cohesion and, consequently, to building more appropriate relationships between the societies of the community. but how can this be achieved when the transitional periods for new member states in accessing the labour market and, consequently, equal access to knowledge and technology are still maintained? this also undermines another fundamental objective, which is to increase the competitiveness, mobility and innovation of this market. how can we talk about these values when there is no full recognition of the equivalence of diplomas at the beginning of a career? in conclusion, it has again been shown that this excellent and noble programme is good and is being implemented in its aims and objectives mainly in the countries of the old union.
mr. chairman, please! i fully support the eu's lifelong learning programme. we have repeatedly stressed the need to strengthen european competitiveness. the foundation is the knowledge triangle: education, research, innovation. education in this setting is crucial. education systems in the union are the responsibility of the member states, but it is good that a more integrated european education agenda is emerging. we have already had the seventh framework programme for research and we have also recently introduced a new community programme for competitiveness and innovation. the knowledge triangle in the union is therefore becoming increasingly strong. the question is, what's between them? are these programs sufficiently interconnected and do they influence each other? it cannot be three separate programmes, three separate great goals of the european union, but one common goal: the knowledge society. i welcome the changes proposed in lifelong learning, such as the modification of the leonardo da vinci programme towards the transfer of innovation or the modification of the grundtvig programme towards the innovation mobility of adult learners. but too often, the curriculum introduces innovative teaching methods rather than opening up the space for innovation itself and for future researchers. there is also no system for identifying genuinely talented people, especially in the comenius and erasmus youth programmes, who would then be further developed by the marie curie programme. the lifelong learning programme should also correspond to the research priorities of the seventh framework programme. the continuity of the knowledge triangle from school to the european institute of technology should be the basis of our actions. i would like to congratulate the commissioner on the use of these comments in the programme.
member of the commission. i am convinced that i do not need to add much, but rather to do more, or to implement what we have repeatedly agreed. first, that education is more than just a basic timeline in life, that we can provide answers through a much more coherent approach, for example for jobs and growth - what is the lisbon strategy - that education cannot be isolated from research and innovation, i.e. creativity, dissemination of knowledge, but also the transfer of knowledge to real practice through innovation. i think the commission is going in that direction the proposal from the european institute of technology is one concrete proof from last week's summit in lahti. the whole programme but also the whole policy which places education at the heart of the lisbon strategy and which aims to shape, create europe and knowledge for growth and jobs is proof of this. the four pillars of the lifelong programme have very inspiring names comenius (jan amos comenius), leonardo da vinci, erasmus of rotterdam and grundtvig. i think it is also an important signal, because we will not solve everything financially with this programme, but we can do a lot to inspire and to inspire, above all, measures and approaches at national level, so that education, which is the competence of the states, also gets to the centre of national approaches or lisbon strategies. there will be a lot more money then, because we would like to see more scope for mobility and for cooperation in education. i think the anniversary of erasmus, the most popular programme in the union - soon to be 20 - is a great opportunity for evaluation, but also a challenge to do more together for our education, our youth and our future. as regards visas or cooperation with other countries, as from 1 january 2007, member states should implement or transpose the decision on facilitating the travel or the acquisition of visas visa facilitation decision for students, professors, researchers within the european union with the exception of the united kingdom, ireland and denmark. my answer to the question of whether calls for harmonisation are needed or what policy is needed is not harmonisation but complementarity and compatibility of our education systems, and this is happening gradually, for example through the bologna process. we are constantly calling for not only more investment but better investment. that's the first answer better and the second is to invest more. and better means mobilizing public and private resources. often, for example, in the form of mobility or training support from companies and industry. so, that's about as much from me as it is from reflection on some of the notes. i thank once again the high level of consensus and commitment not only of the rapporteur, mrs doris pack, but of the whole committee and all those involved.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on culture and education on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a europe for citizens programme to promote active european citizenship (09575/1/2006 - c6-0316/2006 - 2005/0041 (cod)) (rapporteur: hannu takkula) (a6-0342/2006)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are participating in the process of creating the european union. we also have our own views, experiences, observations, which clearly show that we have much in common, but also a lot of differences. many europeans are sceptical of the union and distant from european integration. this fact leads some to look for ways of speeding up european integration, while others believe that this process, if it is to take place, should be carried out in a calm, deliberate and long-term manner, with respect for national traditions and taking into account contemporary experiences. it is good that the draft europe for citizens programme has taken account of many of the proposals put forward by members, including the part concerning commemoration of places of remembrance for the victims of totalitarian regimes. in addition to the nazi regime, the project to commemorate stalin's crimes was also financed. much of the discussion on the programme focused on the weak identification of citizens with the european integration process. the division between citizens of the old, new and future member states was rightly noted. the key agenda has not been sufficiently considered: some want to create, in short, a single universal european model of national identity, while others want a europe of the homeland, with respect for the sense of national identity, and only on the basis of cultural diversity and dialogue, the extraction of common cultural values.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the draft document on a europe for citizens is an example of a particular wishful thinking. someone thought that if they spent more money on what they called informing, raising awareness, involving europeans in eu happenings, they would reduce their distance from the institutions and european integration. a similar logic was used in the soviet sphere of influence, where we lived under the pressure of the only correct socialist ideology. it was thought that just by paying more for happenings, socialist consciousness would grow. the soviet system was designed to create in the minds of russians, ukrainians, georgians and others, only a true soviet identity. the right of nations to preserve their distinctiveness has been suppressed. today, someone has suggested that it would be easier to integrate europeans if this document were to be called europe for citizens rather than citizens for europe. that's been done before. it wasn't the soviet people for the soviet union, the soviet union was for them. the truth was that for the various leninists and stalinists, the obstacle was people who thought and acted like russians, like poles, like hungarians. people brought up in soviet multiculturalism, as more plastic, were more easily enslaved by the empire. let us remember that national cultures are the source and the space of true freedom for people and nations. this document is therefore a repository of history ex aequo with the achievements of the former soviet union.
member of the commission. i want to thank you for all the contributions and especially for some engaged emphasis on the importance of civic cooperation in the european union on some issues or initiatives. the programme itself creates the legal basis for implementation and will set out the conditions that the commission will also fulfil, and it is important that they are known and applied as soon as possible. parliament will be involved through the programme committee and through the evaluation of the programme. volunteering and a better recognition of non-formal education: this is our interest, we are trying to develop this topic, especially in the youth field, through the so-called youth pass, which should give volunteering more transparency and value. i agree that the results or achievements to date and the nature of this cooperation, for example, especially at the level of towns and cities, should be made visible. more than 10 000 municipalities are involved in the eu citizens' programme. three weeks ago we awarded 11 gold stars it's an award for the best projects that are inspiring, serve specific people in specific problems in our eu cities and could be scaled up through better visibility. i agree with mr beazley on this. the programme will also implement a dedicated space for special events or events. as an example, i would mention last year's celebrations of the 25th anniversary of polish solidarity, which were financed by a specific budget line or chapter. this will be possible over the next seven years from the civil society programme. perhaps that's all it takes to conclude that we really need a 'business friendly' or 'market friendly' europe as well as a 'citizen friendly' europe - a europe that is welcoming to citizens, helps them and is based on civil society and maturity. so i would like to say that the title of the programme is one side of the coin, because citizens for europe and europe for citizens is a very important relationship. it's our space, which also serves us. it needs to be shaped, developed and accounted for. so i want to thank the committee rapporteur and the whole parliament again for the very constructive approach to the programme.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the next item is the report drawn up by mr carla schlyter on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on restrictions on the marketing and use of perfluorooctane sulphonates (amending council directive 76/769/eec) (com (2005) 0618 - c6-0418/2005 - 2005/0244 (cod)) (a6-0251/2006)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to deal briefly with the question of pfoa and then make a very basic remark. the last word on the pfoa matter has not been said. it has not been possible to include the prohibition of these substances in this directive because we do not have a sufficient risk assessment and we do not have an impact assessment. but there is an international risk assessment at the oecd level. we will of course look at the results carefully and make appropriate proposals if necessary. i live in the same german land as mr liese and have followed the case he has described with great interest. all i can say today is this: the german authorities' investigations are not yet complete, but i have the strong impression that we are dealing with a case of environmental crime. toxic substances have been released into the environment in violation of existing legislation. whether this could have been prevented by these directives is another matter. but the risks mr liese has described have been explicitly confirmed in this way once again, and that is why i thought it important that he referred to this case. in a modern industrial society, it will always be inevitable to live with certain risks. the question of which risks we consider acceptable and which we do not is one we have to decide again and again. there are a number of assessment criteria that can help us to do this. i would like to mention one that i do not accept. i do not accept the argument that we have to accept the risk of highly toxic substances in our environment because there has been investment. i do not accept the argument that we should accept such substances because they are profitable. i do not even accept the argument - even if i am not making friends now - that we should use these substances because they will keep jobs. i think that this juxtaposition of industrial jobs and the use of toxic substances which can be substituted is completely inappropriate. in such a situation, the only choice is to protect people and the environment unconditionally from risks that are not inevitable. that is the line which underlies my policy on all these matters. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental legislation is properly applied.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30.
the next item is the report by mrs cristian muscardini, on behalf of the committee on foreign trade, on the annual report from the commission to the european parliament on the anti-dumping, anti-subsidy and safeguard measures taken by third countries against the community (2004) (2006/2136 (ini)) (a6-0243/2006)
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank the rapporteur for her very comprehensive report on the protectionist measures used by third countries against the european union. the analysis of the rapporteur's report and the commission's report unfortunately confirms that european trade policy, especially in agriculture, is too strongly oriented towards protecting producers, and consumers pay the highest price. import quotas, anti-dumping duties and administrative barriers on agricultural products cost every european family about $1,500 a year. it seems clear, however, that sometimes, but in very limited and narrowly defined cases, the use of protective measures may be permissible. however, decisions to introduce them must be defined, planned and widely disseminated in advance, so that traders can plan their orders or deliveries in advance. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principles of the union state aid rules and are in accordance with the principle of proportionality, it is therefore very important that trade policy is predictable and stable. preferential rates must be understandable and easy to apply, and their introduction should be discussed extensively with all trading partners beforehand, so that every trader can be well informed and confident about the future of his orders. my final point concerns trade with developing countries, the wto and the european union. developing countries should make the most of the opportunities offered by their participation in the world trade organization. they should be treated as equal partners, and therefore the protection of the interests of large companies, mainly from the european union, but also from the usa, by the industrialized countries should not take place.
member of the commission. mr president, i have never been a unilateral disarmer at any stage in my political career, in any context. i have always been a multilateralist, whether it be in respect of disarmament or the putting in place of international rules to create institutions of global governance or in the design of processes to create agreements or to solve disputes in the world. i bring those principles and that approach to this subject as i have done to others throughout my political career. we have heard a call this evening for moral leadership. the morality that i bring to this subject of trade is my belief in free trade. i say it is moral because i believe that free trade is the best way to drive economic growth, to lever up living standards, to create opportunities for people and to attack poverty in our world. that is what i call ‘moral’. however, one of the ways in which we ‘morally’ pursue free trade is by standing up for fair trade. when i look around me and see the public disquiet, uncertainty and unhappiness about what is going on in the global economy and the sense that people feel increasingly insecure and threatened by the dramatic changes that are taking place in the architecture and landscape of the global economy, i see people beginning to question whether free trade is a good idea. i see them beginning to wonder whether sheltering from the global economy would be better; whether erecting barriers between us and our trading partners might not be a better way of securing our jobs and our livelihoods. i make a very strong argument against that reaction and instinct, but i will never help that argument against protectionism if i am seen to be or thought to be weak when it comes to standing up for the upholding and implementation of internationally agreed trade rules which stand out against anti-competitive behaviour, state interventions or trade distortions, which are designed to give one trading partner an unfair, unreasonable and unacceptable advantage in trade against another. that is why it is appropriate and proper to operate trade defence instruments within the rules created by our multilateral institutions. however, i would never want to see those rules used as a weapon against others’ low-cost competition or against others’ legitimate use of their comparative advantage. that is not right and it is not acceptable, but nor, if i may say to mr kamall, was that the case either in respect of textiles or shoes. shoes, yes, was an anti-dumping measure, arrived at after considerable investigation, analysis, recommendation, discussion, debate and finally decision amongst our member states, as it properly should be. i would stand by the objectivity and the transparency with which that decision was arrived at, and it certainly was not adopted for protectionist purposes. however, in the case of textiles, i never said it was unfair trading. i never said that the fierce competition that we were facing in the case of textiles was as a result of price or market distortions by the chinese. i merely pointed to the fact that with the final lifting of quotas we in europe were suddenly and unexpectedly faced with what amounted to an avalanche which, if it had not been resisted, would have had the likely effect of burying our market and severely distorting what people produce, how people sell, their profits, their livelihoods and, therefore, their jobs in such a sudden way that i believed it was appropriate – and, in the end, our chinese trading partners also agreed that it was right and appropriate – to take voluntary cooperative measures to slow down the rapid increase in chinese textile exports. you are right that at all times, on all occasions and in all cases we should operate impartiality, transparency and truthfulness in the analysis we put forward, the conclusions we reach and how we seek to justify the measures we are advocating. it is true, as mrs handzlik said, that any intervention of any sort in the market – legitimate, anti-dumping or other uses of trade defence instruments – is bound to create some uncertainty and weaken the ability of businesses to plan ahead. mr kamall made a similar point. i take this very seriously indeed, because i do not want my actions, as agreed by the member states, to have the effect of making a bad situation worse by further disrupting or undermining the ability of companies to plan ahead and to organise their production, which, of course, is hampered if supply and production chains are undermined or disrupted by interventions such as these. therefore we must minimise the disruption. one of the things i want to take very seriously in the context of our green paper and our examination of this matter, is how we can minimise disruption and offer the greatest possible predictability to companies that might be affected. i just want to make this last point: mr caspary said – if i may elaborate on and embroider his words slightly – that we should keep to the rules and at all times seek to strengthen and improve them. i agree with that. that is precisely what we are doing in the dda and why we have a multilateral system and process governing these rules and an institution that enables us to negotiate precisely the strengthening and the improvement that you advocate. that is why the wto system is so important. i would just like to say in conclusion that, whatever disruptions, interventions, distractions or diversions we have in a trade agenda which is very wide and very complex, i will always keep my eyes very carefully focused on the dda, the importance of the agenda we are pursuing in the dda and the vital importance of bringing those negotiations to a successful completion. i want to do that in respect not only of market access but also of trade rules and their strengthening, and that is what the commission remains dedicated to achieving.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
mr. chairman, please! i'll start with a thank you. i thank president borrell for his important words to president putin in lahti: 'we will not trade human rights for energy!' you said that on my behalf, and i think on behalf of all polish meps and all meps from the new member states, and not just formally on behalf of the european parliament. president borrell defended europe's honour with the president of poland and the prime ministers of latvia, denmark and sweden. because we have to talk about human rights, looking our russian partners in the eye. because we cannot accept a double standard, which is that we demand respect for human rights, but only in those countries with which we do not trade. because a united europe is not just about economics and business. it's also a system of values that we can't just remind ourselves of when it's convenient. when we do important and necessary business with russia, let us remember the words of the russian political classic lenin, who said that "the capitalists will sell us the rope on which we will hang them". yesterday polish journalists asked me if the lahti summit would be a turning point in the union's relations with russia. i don't know, man. i might have. so far, the individual countries of the union have preferred to talk to moscow over the heads of the others. schroeder was hugging putin, the blairs were playing with the putins, berlusconi was delighted with the russian leader, and when chirac spoke about the president of the russian federation, his eyes were blurred with delight! that's enough! we must be one as a union.
mr. chairman, please! it is already known that the lahti summit did not lead to any breakthrough or even significant progress in the talks with russia on energy cooperation, and that the european union, contrary to its declarations, did not appear as a unified force with which russia would have to deal seriously. in this context, it is worth noting the attitude of some countries, including poland, and the position of the president of the european parliament, mr borrell, which made the voice of the new member states - russia's neighbours - heard at this summit. this was also interpreted as a call for unity in the european union in the field of energy policy. only with such a firm, decisive stance towards russia can we hope for success in the negotiations on europe's energy security. however, it is regrettable that not all member states have yet understood this.
mr. chairman, please! the media coverage of the lahti summit was overshadowed by what prime minister vanhanen called a frank conversation with the russian president. but i would like to focus on another important topic that was discussed at this summit: innovation and technological progress. i fully share the view of president barroso that the more the union focuses on practical tasks, on matters close to the citizens, the more they will appreciate and respect it. the initiative of the president of the commission to set up a european institute of technology is one of those things: concrete, and it has elicited a positive response from europeans. perhaps unintentionally, but in a symbolic way, the context is that the approval for the institute's project has come from finland, the most innovative country in our community. but it is very important to bring in new european union countries where the current level of investment in innovation is much, much lower. the structure proposed by the commission for the eit, with a headquarters and a network of knowledge and innovation communities spread across europe, provides an opportunity for academic centres from central and eastern europe to become involved in the institute's activities. a major concern in the discussion of the eit project is its budget and funding sources. in my country, poland, i see a willingness to use structural funds to fund the establishment of the institute. in this way, the polish authorities are ready to combine the objectives of regional development with the challenges of the present, such as, above all, investments in knowledge and the development of an economy based on modern technologies. the polish government, in cooperation with regional and local authorities, recommends the city of wrocław as the location not only of the headquarters of the european institute of technology, but also of one of its main research and development hubs. i am convinced that this city and the region of which it is the capital, with its strong and innovative academic environment, its huge number of over one hundred thousand students, ambitious and talented young people and numerous new investments in industrial development, is well suited to this purpose.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to ask if there was a misunderstanding here, because according to our voting cards the first vote was by hand, and the second was by roll call, that is, on the ppe-de resolution, and the second vote according to our letters was to be on the socialist resolution and we voted against - thinking that this was the second vote, or did i understand correctly that this was the first vote that took place? i would like to point out that many of my colleagues not only from poland but also from the czech republic and other countries also voted in favour. so i'm asking for clarity here.
mr. chairman, please! it is, i think, necessary that the votes reflect the will of the house of lords, the will of the members who sit in it. as a result of a mistake or a stupidity, a significant number of members did not vote in accordance with their will. i therefore formally request that this vote be resumed, for we are risking nothing, for the house will show what its real will is. (applause from the right)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union we believe in, the european union of our dreams, the european union that the citizens of europe want, must be a union that stands guard over certain values, including in international politics. what has been happening in the last few weeks between russia and georgia must be a matter of fundamental disagreement. i would like to call on all the european union institutions that can speak and act actively on this matter to stand up for georgia's independence, to stand up for the basic norms of international law, such as independence and non-interference in each other's affairs. we know that russia is fueling separatism in georgia, but what's happening lately, over the last few weeks, is particularly worrying, because in russia we're dealing with a huge escalation of chauvinistic, nationalist, anti-georgian discourse. in the past few days, we have learned that georgian artists' paintings are being destroyed in moscow exhibitions. the russian media hysteria against georgians who have been living in russia for years makes them feel unsafe in the russian federation. i would like to call on the european union, i would like to call on this house to support in a clear way an independent and sovereign georgia, which has the right to feel safe in a common europe.
mr. chairman, please! the situation in south ossetia and transnistria is a clear indication that russia has not completely abandoned the idea of a sphere of influence. after 16 years, russia is still not used to the need to respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of independent countries on its borders. it uses trickery, a policy of issuing russian passports, espionage, energy blackmail to weaken and deprive its independent neighbors, georgia and moldova, of parts of their territory. contrary to our expectations, russia is not playing a stabilizing role in the region. on the contrary, the greater russia's political power, the more conflicts, tensions, and even wars. is this part of the canon of policy accepted by the european union? can a strategic partnership be developed unconditionally with a country that uses such methods? i hope not, and that is why i propose that we adopt the joint resolution with the amendments tabled by the ppe-de and the uen.
mr. chairman, please! i will speak on the subject of moldova, because moldova is a country whose problems are the result of historical conditions, geopolitical situation and the current situation, caused by the combination of internal forces and external influences. it must be made clear that the problems of moldova's broad security and development cannot be solved by the strength of this country alone. we need a combination of efforts not only from our neighbours - i mean ukraine and romania - but also from the european union, the united states and, of course, the goodwill of russia. the embargo on agricultural imports and energy problems are clearly linked to moldova's decision to join the european union. that's why we can't leave moldova alone. she has a moral right to our help, and we can afford to help her.
mr. chairman, please! i fully support the motion for a resolution tabled by the group of the union for a europe of nations on transnistria, that is, the part of moldova. i want to express my admiration for the georgian people who want to decide for themselves the direction of their own country's foreign policy. in this respect, it should and must count on the solidarity of the countries making up the union. the georgian authorities rightly demand that the rights of the small georgian nation be respected by the big russian nation. it would be good, however, and i will say this in a slightly different way from my predecessors, if they would also pay attention to respect for the rights of minorities, for example, religious minorities in their own country. i am thinking here of the recent catholic trials that took place in tbilisi. that is the name given to the attack by 60 assailants on a newly built church for the assyrian, or chaldean, catholic community. the attack was the work of orthodox christians who identify strongly with russian culture. in another neighborhood of tbilisi, orthodox christians are pressuring the authorities to prevent the opening of a catholic church. sadly, such instances of religious intolerance, whether against catholics, baptists, pentecostals, jehovah's witnesses, have been very numerous in this country in recent years. i hope that the georgian authorities will respond decisively to these acts of violence that are putting georgia in a bad light on the international stage. i think it will also be very strongly supported by all the political groups in our parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. - madam president! - i have to go. we are discussing an association agreement with a country today, the importance of which i think everyone in this house appreciates. a country we have a number of objections and concerns about. it is not an illusion that syria is involved in the process or the practice of smuggling weapons to terrorist organizations. it is no illusion that syria has close ties with iran. it is no illusion that we have very serious doubts and concerns about the standard of human and civil rights. the question is what instruments we in the european parliament and in the european union should use. whether this deal will promote democratization, whether it will promote the instruments we have to pressure this government, or whether it will make our situation worse. i believe that communication and pressure are improving our situation and that is why this report and this agreement should be supported. i would say that it must be based on and very clearly stated at all times that our position and our opinion of the european parliament must presuppose respect for human and civil rights. he has to assume that the aiding of terrorist activities is over. that kind of pressure has to be applied, otherwise we're violating our basic principles.
president of the council. mr president, the honourable member has raised an important point on this issue. the council and, following the amendments to the treaty, the council and the european parliament have jointly adopted a comprehensive community framework for health and safety at work. member states are responsible for the implementation of this acquis. the council notes with satisfaction that in the case referred to by the honourable member's question, the italian and polish law enforcement authorities have cooperated in order to close the labour camps mentioned in the question. although we share the concern expressed by the rapporteur, it must be noted that the responsibility for monitoring the implementation of community legislation in the member states lies with the commission, not the council.
madam president! but - this is a question for the presidency - could not mechanisms, such as eurojust, be activated to set up a special team to monitor the proceedings, especially where there is a suspicion of cooperation of the local administration, or even the local police, with the organizers of this criminal procedure, which were the labour camps for citizens of central and eastern europe?
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw your attention first of all to the title of mrs wortmann-kool's report. this report concerns the promotion of inland navigation. yes, inland navigation does need to be promoted, perhaps not in the netherlands, where the author of the report comes from, but in many other countries of the european union, including my own country, poland, where the odra programme was adopted a few years ago (first it was the odra programme 2006, now this programme is being extended to 2015), but still almost nothing is happening. these are just the postulates. the value of the report we are debating at the moment is that it seeks to treat european inland waters in an autonomous way, i emphasize the word autonomous - that is to say, not just as a complement to road and rail transport, as a minor addition, but as a separate, self-contained whole. this is very important, because now that bulgaria and romania have joined, there is a unique opportunity to create a european inland waterway network. i have a dream, i share it with you and i think many of my committee members share it, to take this journey through europe's waterways, old and new. it may be an old-fashioned trip, but it's still a beautiful one. but to make such a trip worthwhile, some serious investments are still needed. i think it is worth going back to some ideas, important ideas, which have been the object of longing for many farsighted politicians for centuries, for example the design of the oder-danube canal, which would connect two very important sea basins. i encourage the european commission to continue its studies, to continue working on the european inland waterway network, to continue its studies in this area, and i wish it well in this regard.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. if we continue to complain that the member states do not want to increase their contributions to the community budget by a hundred percent, if we continue to say that there is too little money to balance the levels between the regions, that europe is developing too slowly, then we should encourage, not block and impede, the use of private money and know-how for development. the european union should, above all, promote good practice in the field of public-private partnerships. it's the minimum program. it should invest in at least a publicly accessible website in the 20 official languages of the european union with descriptions of the mechanism, the effects, with examples of ppp model projects, so that every european municipality can look at successful experiences without hindrance and use them to work out its own path. i call on the european commission to enforce the european investment bank to make such public information available. what the eib is currently preparing, a system of purely internal, intergovernmental information on ppps, closed to the public in the member states, is unacceptable.
member of the commission. the aim of the posting of workers directive is to reconcile the right of undertakings to provide crossborder services with the rights of posted workers. this is to be done while respecting the fundamental freedoms of movement of workers and services and the social legislation designed to protect workers. ten years after the adoption of this directive, difficulties in its implementation persist. first, workers and employers are not sufficiently informed about their rights and obligations. another problem is the lack of administrative cooperation between the authorities of the country of origin and the host country. in this respect, we can even speak of a certain mutual distrust. finally, the control measures applied by some member states raise concerns about protectionism. host country authorities have been granted some control rights, but even this has its limitations. these checks must be carried out on a proportionate scale, without discrimination, in order to guarantee the free movement of services within the internal market. in order to clarify this point, the commission considered it appropriate to adopt guidelines on 4 april. national authorities must provide posted workers and service providers with effective means of obtaining information on the working conditions applicable in the host country. they must also cooperate loyally with one another. in this respect, the commission considers it necessary to remind member states of their obligations and to call on them to put in place more effective means. i am aware that the debate in parliament on posting has been difficult and that there have been very different views. this, in my view, demonstrates how difficult it is to strike a balance between ensuring the protection of workers on the one hand and the free movement of services on the other. i am pleased to find that the report on which parliament voted shares many of the points made by the commission in its communication of 4 april. there are, however, a number of points to which i would like to pay particular attention and to which i would like to make a clear statement. i cannot agree with the view that the commission is seeking, through its opinion, to include the deleted articles 24 and 25 of the original draft services directive, because that is not the case and the commission is interpreting the law in question in its communication and not introducing a new law, since the commission's communication does not even formally provide for such a possibility, that is a matter of the legislative process. therefore, this claim does not correspond to reality in the interpretation used by the commission. i would stress again that the commission's communication does not establish a new law on which to base those articles, but interprets existing law, including important judgments of the luxembourg court. the court of justice judgments referred to in the commission notice prohibit national authorities from requiring service providers established in another member state to have a branch or representative established in their territory. the court has held that the host member state, in whose territory the foreign service provider provides services, may, subject to compliance with the principle of solidarity, require that documents directly relating to the work in question, in particular the work records or documents relating to health, safety and security at work, be made available at the workplace. in its interpretation, the commission in no way limits the member states' ability to carry out effective checks, none of the above formulations is directed towards that objective and i must state that the commission has made a very careful effort in its interpretation to identify and capture the substance and spirit of individual judgments. the commission attaches particular importance to the proper implementation of the directive and will increase its monitoring of this implementation. it has already started work on a report to assess the situation one year after the publication of the guidelines. to this end, the commission sent a questionnaire to the national authorities and the social partners. it also set up a website devoted to the legal and practical issues of posting. it has recently published a form on this site, through which any european citizen can make suggestions and comments. in addition, a group of national experts working under the auspices of the commission has developed a code of good practice laying down certain rules on administrative cooperation and a standard form to facilitate the exchange of information between contact points. the commission naturally takes account of all the views of parliament and considers the report under consideration to be an important document.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you very much for your report, mr schroedter. i regret to say that the employment committee has not taken into account the most important points of my opinion with the imco committee. we also had no opportunity to exchange information, and to discuss in group b, issues that were important to us. the rapporteur has made a number of disturbing and often contradictory statements in her opinion. i'm going to focus on the most important issues here. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to address these problems, some of which are not new and have already been widely discussed in the context of the services directive. unfortunately, it was decided that the solution to these problems would not be found in the directive but in the commission's guidelines. these guidelines are good in my view because they eliminate the problems that thousands of entrepreneurs face every day when they delegate their employees. these include the requirement for the host country to establish legal representation, rather than simply posting a worker who could act as the employer's representative. such a requirement has very far-reaching consequences, since the establishment of a legal representative is covered by the principle of freedom to conduct a business, not by the freedom to provide services, and entails a heavy financial burden for employers. alternatively, the requirement to provide the receiving state with different quantities of documents. in practice, entrepreneurs complain that the authorities of the host country abuse this requirement and demand documents that have nothing to do with the work being done. the requirement to provide information declarations on the posting of workers. some countries require such declarations to be provided many months before the start of the secondment and often these declarations take the form of an authorisation. such practices are very burdensome for service providers. the last important point i would like to draw attention to, and which is often pointed out by entrepreneurs, is the very onerous controls on polish companies... (the president declared the minutes closed)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. when the lopsided compromise on the services directive was struck, it was clear that it was at the expense of the new eu countries, whose main competitive advantage in the eu market was services. the chances for equal rights in the common market, as outlined in the original draft directive, were already buried. one element of this tender that might have given some hope to the new countries was the european commission's guidelines on posting of workers. the committee on employment and social affairs, in presenting its report today, is, however, prepared to reject this modest and non-binding step altogether. it wants to maintain the status quo in the services market, even though it is a protectionist and chauvinistic market. the advantage of this chauvinism in the opinion of the european trade union confederation, for example, is that it is worker-oriented, that it is implemented under trade union standards. i doubt he has anything to do with the true good of the working people. the draconian administrative and social requirements are really designed to put people out of work. that was the case with vaxholm or the polish company zojax. both were forced to withdraw from projects, resulting in losses and redundancies. the swedish unionists were very complacent, however, as foreign workers - latvians and poles - were dismissed. i would like to remind the employment committee and the swedish trade unionists that these foreigners are full citizens and companies to whom we promised equal rights in the common market at the time of accession. the requirements of article 3 of the directive are of a minimum nature, it is true, but does the employment committee not consider that it is high time to indicate an upper limit for those requirements, both in the case of requirements arising from law and from collective agreements? does the employment committee not see that these requirements are often just a smokescreen for mere protectionism? the requirement to register, to have legal representation in the host country and to have access to social documentation on the spot are among the leading forms of administrative harassment that serve the same purpose: to protect the national market from bricklayers, bakers, bicycle-makers and people in a hundred other professions. they have reason to be sorry today. their expectations of equal rights in the eu market very often clash with the brutal reality. the adoption of the employment committee's report as it stands will send a clear signal to the member states: with the common market in services you can do whatever you want. the adoption of the report in this form is also a breach of the fragile compromise on the services directive. i therefore ask you to support the amendments tabled by the ppe-de group and the uen, because without them the report does not deserve to be supported.
mr. chairman, please! the possibility to post workers is integral to the fundamental freedoms of the european union, the most important of which are the free movement of persons, the free movement of services and the free movement of capital. the posting of workers directive is therefore a logical consequence of the functioning of the internal market of the european union. the state of the union's economy is clearly reflected in the state of its businesses, especially those in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. it is to them that the 1996 directive is mainly addressed, the aim of which was to simplify the rules under which they can compete and operate outside their country of origin. without internal competition, the european union will not be able to face global competition, where it will have to face the economies of the united states, china and japan. i would like to congratulate mrs elisabeth schroedter on her initiative in taking up a subject which is of great importance for the future of the european union. however, after a thorough analysis of its report, i am forced to express my concern that, in essence, this document is not in line with my vision of freedom to provide services in the internal market. reading the draft report drawn up by mrs schroedter, i am concerned that its purpose is to make it de facto more difficult for companies to delegate workers to carry out a specific task and thus to sanction protectionist practices which serve the governments of the member states to protect them from the effects of competition. i want to emphasize this clearly: against the positive effects of competition. at the same time, i support the efforts of the european commission and your personal efforts to ensure that the directive is better applied in practice, and i hope, perhaps like commissioner špidla, that there is no reason to amend it or replace it with a new piece of legislation.
the next item is the report by pervenche berès on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy on the annual report of the european central bank for the year 2005 (2006/2206 (ini)) (a6-0349/2006).
mr. chairman, please! while welcoming the european central bank's performance in 2005, i would like to stress that the group of european socialists fully respects and supports the independence of the central bank. we believe that this independence is a necessary condition for the conduct of a sound monetary policy in the economic and monetary union and a guarantee of the value of our common currency. i would now like to draw attention to three issues which have been the subject of debate in our parliament for a long time. first, we are not clear about the relative weight of the two pillars of monetary policy that the ecb uses, namely the money supply and other information about future inflation. consequently, it is not known whether and to what extent the money supply is a decisive factor in the ecb's interest rate policy. the announcement of clear rules on this issue would make monetary policy more transparent and effective. second, there is an urgent need for a clear interpretation of the ecb's mandate as set out in article 105 (1) of the treaty. in particular, the ecb should announce how and by what means it intends to fulfil its treaty obligation to support the economic policies of the european union while maintaining price stability. i would point out that the treaty clearly distinguishes between the two objectives and that they cannot be treated as substitutes. a clear ecb position on this issue would avoid any confusion as to whether the ecb is responsible for pursuing objectives other than price stability. third, the ecb is wrong in its interpretation of the inflation criterion used to assess the degree of readiness of new member states to join the euro area. the treaty clearly states that the reference point is the average inflation rate in the three countries with the best price stability performance. the treaty doesn't say anything about the lowest price. the ecb has defined price stability as an inflation rate below but close to 2%, but in assessing the degree of preparedness of the candidate countries the ecb uses a different definition, namely the average of the three countries with the lowest inflation rates. since there cannot be two different definitions of the same treaty term, i ask the ecb to clarify this issue.
the european central bank mr president, perhaps i can say something, since a number of questions have been raised. i would first like to thank the members of parliament. i was very impressed by the precision of the remarks, observations and recommendations made to us. on the subject of independence, i would like to say, on behalf of all the members of the executive board and the governing council of the european central bank, how important it is to hear so many members of parliament say that the independence of the central bank is an absolutely major issue. i must confess that we could not have given the european economy the monetary and financial environment it deserves without the credibility that this principle of independence gives us, which is recognized by your parliament, by the whole world and by all market participants everywhere in the world. this is in the treaty, it is recognised and it is a fundamental asset of europe. i would like to thank once again all the members who have spoken so clearly on this point. let me now deal with some of the other points raised, which are certainly important in the eyes of a number of members of parliament. i have to say that the question of the appointment of the members of the executive board is one that should be addressed to the executive branches, particularly the council, because they are responsible for such matters. we are appointed in accordance with the treaty provisions and, as you know, not only does the parliament give its assessment of the quality of the various persons concerned, but so do we in the governing council. i know that parliament would like to have not only an advisory role but also responsibility for the decision itself. i respect that sentiment. i realise that the ecb has to let parliament and the council discuss the matter, provided that full independence and absence of politicization are totally assured, for, clearly, if the institution were to suffer from politicization, it would not be able to deliver what it has to deliver, namely, price stability, something which also depends on it enjoying sound credibility, so that inflation expectations can be firmly anchored. as regards the various remarks on the dialogue between parliament and the ecb, in my opinion this dialogue has improved in terms of both frequency and interaction and i will take good note of all the remarks made here, including those concerning the governance of our possible target2 securities system. on that issue, which is dear to your heart, mr radwan, and to that of other members of parliament, i would say that our aspiration - and it is really a work in progress - was to maximise the benefits of european integration following the successful introduction of the euro, since it is clear that the availability of a single settlement engine for securities denominated in euros would undoubtedly represent progress. the second objective would be to maximise settlement efficiency and that would probably require cash and securities to be settled on the same it platform, according to what is known technically as an 'integrated model'. the third issue, which is important from our own perspective, is how to maximize the central bank's control over the bank accounts opened in our own book. we take a very strong line on this, believing that solutions which avoid forcing central banks to outsource the management of their accounts would not be good ones. these are the three main reasons why we are working on this matter, through a dialogue with the market, which is very important, and, of course, with parliament. a number of other points have been mentioned. i will not return to the matter of hedge funds raised by mrs van den burg, in particular. as to the question of whether or not we are sufficiently transparent and open in terms of communication, i reiterate that we do not take decisions alone behind closed doors. the commissioner and the president of the eurogroup, jean-claude juncker, are invited to all meetings of the governing council. they are also invited every fortnight to our discussions and deliberations, so that they can be as close as possible to the decisions taken. i myself have the privilege of appearing before the eurogroup every month. so there are three opportunities each month to exchange views and gain as full as possible an understanding of how the decision-making process really works. it seems to me that, from that standpoint, we have the most highly organized system of contacts anywhere in the world. it is not new; it was the tradition of the bundesbank, the banque de france and a number of central banks. let us not underestimate its significance. some of the remarks made fail to take this into account. as regards the transparency of our concept of monetary policy, we are in a position where we say that our primary goal is price stability, because that is what the treaty stipulates. we give an arithmetical definition of price stability as inflation rates of below and close to 2%. everyone is aware of this. we have a two-pillar strategy that is very clear. in that respect, we are much more transparent and precise. we provide a greater yardstick with which to measure our performance than other sister central banks do. i do not want to address myself to any of them in particular, but across the atlantic there is a sister central bank which, for very good reasons of its own, has a different approach to the definition of price stability, with regard to the clarity of that goal. from that standpoint we are very transparent. the entire world knows that we are transparent and it is one of the reasons why inflation expectations are anchored in line with our definition of price stability, which is a fundamental result. mr president, i would like to say a few words to a few members. the fact that we are credible and that our inflation expectations are in line with our definition of price stability provides a particularly favourable financial environment for the european economy. i would ask those members who have criticised our monetary policy as being too orthodox to simply recall what the medium and longterm market interest rates were in their countries before the introduction of the euro. in reality, inflation expectations were based on inflation that was much higher than what we can guarantee to europeans today. it is worth noting that low inflation is a fundamental element for the poorest among us, preserving their purchasing power. i have noticed that many members have asked us to be very vigilant in this respect. i am therefore deeply convinced that there is a very simple relationship between our primary objective as set out in the treaty and article 105. the first objective is a necessary but not sufficient condition for us to move in the direction that everyone in this house wants, namely, of course, growth and employment. price stability is a necessary condition for sustainable growth and for the creation of sustainable jobs. if i have time i shall make two or three other remarks. regarding the 500 euro note, i do not agree at all with the remark that was made suggesting that we would actively assist money laundering. as you know, large denomination notes were a strong tradition in many of the countries forming part of the euro area and we decided not to change the various traditions drastically. so the note is used in some countries, but not in others. it remains an option and we decided not to eliminate that option for those countries and economies that were used to it. i believe i have covered all the other questions that were raised. however, mr whittaker mentioned the one-size-fits-all angle. europe is a vast continental economy and, from 1 january next year when slovenia joins, the eurozone will have 315 million citizens. this compares with 300 million in the united states and thus represents an economy of the same order of magnitude. when you measure the dispersion, the standard deviation of growth and of inflation at the level of various states of various different sizes, you will see that it is roughly the same for both economies. this is not widely known, but is worth pointing out, since it appears to be a characteristic of a vast continental economy. this does not mean that we have to cater for persistent differences, and it is one of the things that we have discussed, particularly in the eurogroup. we need to reflect on this question, but again, it would probably be wrong to forget that an element of dispersion is always associated with the size of the economy concerned. mr president, i think i have covered most of the questions that were asked, but of course i remain at the disposal of parliament.
i thank you, mr president of the central bank. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by jan mulder, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) (com (2006) 0237 - c6-0237/2006 - 2006/0082 (cns)) (a6-0319/2006) and the report by lutz goepel, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down the rules for the voluntary modulation of direct payments provided for in regulation (ec) no 1782/2003 establishing common rules for direct support schemes under the common agricultural policy and establishing a common support scheme for farmers (com (2006) 0237 - c6-0235/2005 (cns)) and amending regulation (ec) no 1290/2005.
are you asking for the debate or the vote to be postponed?
i just wanted to say that on behalf of the uen group i also support mr goepel's motion. these are serious reports which need to be debated in a serious atmosphere, not in the circumstances we are in at the moment. i fully support the motion of mr goepel.
i am convinced by the arguments. i propose, as president of this sitting, that we change the agenda by withdrawing the joint debate on the reports by mr mulder and mr goepel. (parliament agreed to withdraw the two reports from that day’s agenda)
we have reached a reasonable solution. the debate will take place at a more convenient time, under more favourable conditions. (the sitting was suspended at 11.20 a.m. and resumed at 11.40 a.m.)
in writing. the schroedter report on the application of the posting of workers directive undermines all the valuable provisions that the compromise on the services directive has made in the european commission's guidelines on the posting of workers. from a political point of view, this is a breach of that difficult compromise. the european commission wanted to point out (by a non-binding document) that there are limits to social protection and administrative regulation of the market which should not be exceeded in the member states in order not to restrict the principle of freedom to provide services (until the entry into force of the services directive; the posting of workers directive is the main legal basis for the services market). the report produced by the employment commission challenges all the relevant provisions of these guidelines, defending the scandalous status quo in the services market, where companies from new countries are notoriously harassed administratively in order to restrict competition. it is protectionism, but it is carried out under the banner of workers and social welfare.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: for over 50 years, china has illegally occupied tibet, pursuing a policy of discrimination and persecution aimed at marginalizing tibetans in their own country. recently, the chinese army carried out another brutal killing of a defenseless tibetan nun crossing the border into nepal. the chinese deny that they shot at tibetan refugees trying to cross into nepal, but there is a video that shows the whole thing. the european parliament cannot remain silent and indifferent to recent events. the policy of force and repression by the chinese authorities against tibet can no longer be tolerated. i call today on the government of the people's republic of china to stop its repeated violations of human rights against the tibetan people and other minorities, and to ensure that it respects international human rights standards, international law and religious rights. tibet needs genuine autonomy and freedom of religion and education for tibetans. i also call on the government of the people's republic of china to accelerate the dialogue with the representatives of the dalai lama in order to work out without further delay a solution to the tibet issue that can be accepted by both sides.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. despite the restoration of official relations between the chinese government and the dalai lama in 2002, human rights abuses continue to be a daily occurrence in tibet. it is estimated that each year, 2,500 people risk the many days of migration to escape repression in nepal. violence against unarmed civilians is particularly alarming, such as the shelling by chinese border guards of refugee groups, including women, children and clergy, trying to cross the tibetan border at nangpa la pass in september this year. to this day, the chinese authorities have not claimed responsibility for the incident, which left one person dead and dozens of children in military custody still unaccounted for. the international institutions should take decisive and effective steps to finally force the chinese government to end its repression of the tibetan people, its inhuman treatment of prisoners, and its use of torture and extrajudicial executions. we call once again for respect for fundamental human rights in tibet, including freedom of expression and assembly, and for the establishment of a genuine dialogue between the two sides, which would result in understanding and respect for the religious, political and cultural rights of the tibetan people. (laughter)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we're here today to discuss human rights in china. after the grim and horrifying incident that took place at the border, when the entire world public opinion could see firsthand how defenseless people are treated in china, who do not pose any threat to the communist authorities, but simply become a target for a heartless shooting. the incident we are discussing today, which is becoming, and rightly so, the occasion for discussion in the european parliament, reminds us of a bitter truth: human rights are being violated in china in virtually every area of life. the human rights, economic rights and religious rights of citizens of the people's republic of china are being violated. and unfortunately, we have to say with bitterness that the governments of the individual countries of the european union, as well as the bodies of the european union, unfortunately, too often maintain a complete hypocrisy of silence about what is happening in china. and if the common values that unite us in this house and in europe are really common, we must cry out loud for respect for human rights in the people's republic of china.
mr. chairman, please! the resolution we are voting on today refers to the events of september 30th, when chinese police fired on a group of tibetan refugees seeking freedom outside the people's republic of china. this was not the first such case, but it was unique in that this barbaric act was filmed. thanks to television and the internet, all of us and millions of people around the world have seen firsthand what china's real policy towards tibetans is. the drama of the tibetan people is compounded by the fact that they are one of the most peaceful nations in the world. the dalai lama is not calling for tibetan independence. the tibetans agree to act within the constitutional order of china. how can you shoot at people like that? how can they be killed and persecuted just because they want a little freedom and protection for their cultural heritage? can this drama be stopped? yes, we need to put in place a ceasefire on people fleeing a country they don't want to live in. this has happened in the past, for example, on the border between east and west germany. great nations do not and should not base their authority on shooting at defenseless refugees.
mr. chairman, please! a lot has been said here today about the situation in tibet. the chinese authorities declare that they respect the autonomy of titu. but the practice is quite different. i would like to draw your attention today to a report by human rights watch on october 9th of this year, which reports the closure of a blog run by one of the leading tibetan intellectuals, woeser. woeser's blog was one of the most interesting political and cultural events in modern china. it told the truth about the situation in tibet, about the degradation of the environment, about the degradation of tibetan culture. woeser is one of the most prominent intellectuals in contemporary china, and her blog was a true reflection of what is happening in tibet today. we should not tolerate in any way the situation where the chinese authorities declare autonomy for a province and in practice shut down leading intellectual blogs online.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: there has been a lot of talk in this chamber about the situation in uzbekistan. the situation is not improving, and we are seeing a deepening of repression. the latest human rights watch report, dated october 3, is a good description of the situation. there is still no accountability for the massacre in andijan, there is still repression of critical voices, and there is still persecution of religious freedom. the lack of cooperation with international institutions in the field of human rights and fundamental rights continues. in september, two journalists, jamshid karimov and ulyukbek hajdarov, who were known for their independence and critical reporting on the regime, disappeared in uzbekistan. karimov was found in a psychiatric hospital, while hajdarov was found in prison. the european parliament's strategy should also be designed to help uzbekistan return to the family of reforming and democratic countries. we should not take any steps that would interfere with this course of events.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: since the last european parliament resolution on the situation in the central asian republics and uzbekistan, little has changed in this country. the uzbek government has still not allowed an independent investigation into the events that took place on 13 may 2005 in andijan, where the military sent by president karimov put down a popular uprising. the massacre left several hundred dead, and the government has called the uprising a terrorist rebellion. most independent journalists and human rights defenders are subject to intimidation by the security services or have been expelled from the country. the recent disappearance of jamshid karimov and ulugbek hajdarov, who were said to be the last independent journalists who dared to write critically about the government and the 17-year-old ruler, and who found themselves, after a few days, one in prison for forcing the haretz, the other in a psychiatric hospital, raises great concern about the further development of the situation in the country. civil society in uzbekistan is demanding a more open society, respecting personal freedoms, human rights and real progress towards democracy. the fight against terrorism must be conducted in accordance with international conventions and must not in any case be used as a pretext for suppressing political opposition, violating human rights and restricting civil liberties.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. fifteen years after the collapse of the evil empire that was undoubtedly the soviet union, the situation is fairly clear. only those former soviet republics that have decided to build their future on the model of western democracy can guarantee that human rights will be respected and that they will build civil states. but those that have taken refuge under moscow's protection, those that are still ruled by the regimes of former communist leaders, cause us fear and cause us great concern. but i would like to draw attention to the fact that we are discussing individual cases, today precisely about this tragedy and many other tragedies that happened in uzbekistan. but it's time, perhaps, to pay attention to the fact that this is happening only because these regimes have the approval of moscow, have the protection of the russian authorities. that's where they can do this and not that. it's time we said no to that.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to express my deepest indignation at the words which have just come out of the mouth of a representative of the far left in the european parliament. because the situation in uzbekistan is not comparable to the situation in any european country. we certainly have problems in many, many countries, but it's absolutely outrageous to compare it to the situation in uzbekistan, where people are being killed and where people are being persecuted for their political beliefs. i regret that in the house, on issues such as the defence of human rights, there are figures who break the consensus on the defence and promotion of fundamental european values such as human rights, democracy and freedom of expression. that consensus should be found in this chamber from left to right. i will support the resolution calling for the extension of sanctions against the uzbek regime, because the european union is not just a political body with a community of economic interests. i am a firm believer in the european union as a community of values and as a community of values the european union must condemn human rights violations very strongly, wherever they occur. (laughter)
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. exactly one year ago, we debated the situation in uzbekistan, where there was a bloody crackdown on demonstrations against the totalitarian government of president karimov and human rights violations. the country's independence is also constantly undermined by the relentless struggle for influence between the great powers. despite the sanctions and subsequent resolutions of the parliament, human rights defenders and witnesses to the truth are still being imprisoned and tortured in uzbekistan, and as we know, no decision, law or imprisonment can destroy the truth. apart from the opposition, the entire nation is suffering the consequences of the regime, fighting for independence and democratic change, and especially women, who have received the right to divorce as part of equal rights, but who have to face the problems of everyday life, supporting their families and children. of course we call for respect for human rights and we support the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! a minute to talk about human rights violations in uzbekistan is not enough. all we can do is signal that there still hasn't been an independent investigation into the events in andijan a year and a half ago. since these events, the authorities in tashkent have waged a real war on human rights defenders, independent journalists. according to the un, torture is still practiced in that country. the rising tide of islamic exterminism in uzbekistan is true, but it cannot be used as a pretext for human rights violations. this state has an absolutely central role in central asia, but all the more should we demand that it abide by the rules of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. a few thousand kilometers from uzbekistan is a similar country that blatantly violates human rights, belarus. visa sanctions have been imposed on belarus and uzbekistan. the extension of these sanctions is a pretty obvious decision and should be supported. maybe this visa blackmail will help uzbekistan understand what is at stake when it comes to european standards. (laughter)
mr president, in my oral amendment, i suggest deleting the first part of paragraph 2 of the joint resolution on uzbekistan.
mr president, i suggest we delete the first part of the second point. as i understand it, it was proposed by members of the ppe-de group.
mr. chairman, please! it's been a week since the new restrictive regulations on airline passengers' luggage were introduced. and i still get questions about what exactly happened that the uk dropped these restrictions and then a few days later they were introduced across the european union? and still, as a representative of the house transportation committee, i look forward to that explanation. the second issue is the ambiguity of these new regulations, which leads to complete confusion for travellers. it turns out that each airport interprets it differently. for example, at the airport in wroclaw - this is my own personal example - for example, i was ordered to throw even a deodorant in a pin into a container - not a liquid only in a pin - as punishment for not having declared that i had such a deodorant beforehand. in such a simple matter, could these rules not be harmonized? can they not be interpreted uniformly, so that the goodwill, and sometimes even the arbitrariness, of individual officials is not at stake? i hope these questions will not remain unanswered.
mr president, i should like to begin by thanking you for what you said to president putin in your own language: 'we do not trade energy for human rights'. i would like the assembly to also speak about the blockade handled by russia against poland. the accusations are unfounded, the case is very long and i think that it is not only a matter for the polish and russian governments, but for the whole european union. i wanted our congregation to put some names on the european commission and take appropriate steps to regulate it, because such a situation is not normal.
mr. chairman, please! despite numerous interventions, talks and fulfilment of the conditions, russia continues to maintain an embargo on polish food products, including meat. poland has not solved this problem and will not solve it until the european union applies the same market protection rules to all member countries. it cannot be that poland has difficulties with too many of its goods on both the external and internal markets of the european union, due to the influx of goods from third countries at dumped prices. poland, like the other member states, cannot deal with russia alone. the european union as a whole is an important partner for russia. i therefore ask the fundamental question: will the european union-russia summit, which is scheduled for 24 november this year, present polish problems as problems of the european union?
mr. chairman, please! i'm here again to discuss the european commission's hand luggage regulations. well, i don't know if the chairman and the commission are aware that the cosmetic and food industries are not following these regulations and most cosmetics are not in 100ml containers. so shampoos, tonics, all kinds of other cosmetic fluids, you have to put them in the sink and then you have to put them in another 100ml container, because you can't take a 200ml container on a plane. of course, you can put your suitcase in your luggage, but that's not to mention the five million pieces of luggage that are lost around the world every year. often, airports are in complete chaos and disarray, and the appropriate services are unable to cope. and again, the terrorists are right in front of us, cornering us, and it's probably going to continue to look like this, that we're going to be flying around in safety vests and disposable hospital shoes. it looks like it.
mr. chairman, please! a joint initiative of great value between dg regi and the european investment bank for 2007-13, called jeremy, is currently being negotiated with individual member states. the aim is to facilitate access to the european regional development fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. jeremy is designed to facilitate the start-up and development of regional businesses through all kinds of non-grant instruments such as micro-credit and guarantees. unfortunately, there is already resistance from some member states - because it is up to them to decide - to allocate part of the structural funds to this new initiative. some countries do not even want to include it in their programmes, even if they know that they will not be able to use all the funds, they will have problems with absorption. there is therefore a risk that jeremy, an excellent instrument that can support entrepreneurship in the regions, will not be used. as the european parliament, we should encourage the member states to make the most of the opportunity that jeremia gives us, because, in addition to the large investments from the structural funds, it is the development of small businesses and the activation of economic activities that are the driving force behind the development of the regions and deserve special support.
mr. chairman, please! i am appalled by the recent meeting of the heads of state of the european union. most foreign ministers want to establish an eu mandate to negotiate a new eu-russia agreement before russia lifts trade restrictions on poland. it's about an embargo on polish meat and agricultural products. in short, instead of european solidarity, we are dealing with leaving my country to itself and dealing with moscow over poland. meanwhile, warsaw rightly wants to include in the negotiating mandate the prohibition of trade barriers in relations between russia and individual eu member states. instead of three words of support from commissioner ferrero-waldner, the union needs to introduce the principle of three and then four musketeers in its relations with russia: 'one for all, all for one'. if we do not do this, the concept of european solidarity will be a hollow slogan, and i say this with all my might in the home of the three musketeers.
mr. chairman, please! on october 16, another german provocation against the territorial sovereignty of poland took place. on that day, a german ship was to dock in the polish port of świnoujście. after entering polish territorial waters, polish customs officers appeared on board and detected alcohol smuggling. when the ship was a few yards from the shore, it suddenly turned and started running toward germany. despite the prohibition of the port captaincy, which forbade the germans to leave the port, and despite the pursuit and calls for arrest issued by two pursuit units of the polish border guard, the german ship left polish territorial waters, kidnapping polish customs officers. they were then arrested in germany on charges of illegal activities. this is a scandal! i would remind you that in august the german navy conducted maneuvers in polish territorial waters without informing the polish side and making it difficult for passenger ferries to access polish ports. this is another german provocation denying the polish-german border, violating international law and damaging relations within the european union. i call on german politicians to come to their senses and finally recognize the borders with their neighbors.
mr. chairman, please! as meps, we receive correspondence from individuals and organisations pointing to the problem of very brutal treatment of homeless animals, dogs in romania. i'm drawing attention to this problem because we have adopted certain standards in the european union. the commission has recently adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of animals during transport. romania will be joining the european union in a few weeks and methods that deviate from european standards cannot be accepted. i am drawing attention to this problem and i ask the european commission to draw attention to it and take appropriate action.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the debate on the report on the annual report on the situation in the euro area in 2006, i would like to draw attention to two problems. the first is that there is clearly lower economic growth and higher unemployment in the countries of the european union, and in the euro area in particular, than in the united states of america or so-called emerging markets like china and india. suffice it to say that economic growth in the euro area will be almost twice as low as in the united states of america between 2005 and 2007, and unemployment will be almost twice as high. the second problem is that economic growth is faster and unemployment is lower in three of the 15 countries that did not join the eurozone than in the countries that did. in this context, it is hardly surprising that these countries are in no hurry to join the monetary union, and even more alarming is the entry of new member states into the euro area, which are still struggling to meet the maastricht convergence criteria.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the euro area's growth rate has been the lowest in the world for many years, including in 2006. at the same time, instead of looking for reasons and faults of its own, i.e. those arising from the monetary policy introduced by the european central bank, it is trying to force the so-called unification of budgetary and tax policies in the member states. it is an attempt to curb the initiative of the governments of the member states, a kind of dictate by the stronger ones to the weaker ones. if the purpose of the creation of the single currency was, first, to simplify the system and reduce costs, second, to attract foreign investment, and third, to use the privilege of issuing money and creating a new world currency, neither the second nor the third case achieved the desired results. foreign investment continues to be concentrated in the united states and asia. the demand for the euro as a world currency is relatively weak. the opposite effect was achieved, namely that the maintenance of a high interest rate and the artificial strengthening of the euro made the union manufacturing sectors less competitive and reduced the profitability of exports. the single currency and the central bank policy have been found to serve the purposes of financial capital at the expense of businessmen, consumers and the budgets of the member states. the common currency also indirectly causes difficulties for the new member states in their exports, slows down their development and increases the backlog. we therefore believe that the monetary doctrine of the union must be radically revised so that the monetary authorities of the member states can again exercise their influence over the issue of money and the interest rate.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i welcome the announcement by the european commission of the first annual report on the economic situation in the euro area. it provides a good basis for discussing the main challenges facing the euro area now and in the years ahead. there's a lot to talk about. the average rate of economic growth in the euro area between 2001 and 2005 was only 1.9%. unemployment has risen to 13 million, and the public finances have deteriorated rather than improved. the last year has brought some improvement, as you have been so gracious to say, but this does not change the fact that europe is still losing ground not only to the united states and japan but also to the rapidly developing asian countries. the main sources of european stagnation are unresolved structural problems. the high cost of setting up and running businesses, high non-wage labour costs, low propensity to innovate, and the persistence of harmful barriers in the labour and services markets are all reducing the competitiveness of european companies, holding back growth and increasing pressure on public finances. this is not the way to take full advantage of the great opportunity of the single currency and the single monetary policy. i therefore call on the european commission to put pressure on the member states to implement the necessary reforms more quickly. the need for reforms to be accelerated is highlighted by a number of reports and studies, including the schapir report and the report of the high level group chaired by wim kok. the macroeconomic policy of the euro area needs to be improved. in particular, there is insufficient coordination of fiscal policies between member states. the single currency, on the other hand, requires financial discipline, which must be implemented in solidarity by all the member states. this will allow macroeconomic policy to be balanced and the policy mix to be restored. monetary policy should be based on clear, transparent principles and be more forward-looking. the excessive secrecy in decision-making, the lack of clear rules on the role of the so-called two pillars of monetary policy, especially the m3 money supply, and the questionable rules for the appointment of the members of the executive board of the european central bank. all this reduces the effectiveness and transparency of the single monetary policy and may weaken the single currency. mr president, commissioner, an important element in strengthening the euro area is its enlargement and the admission of new member states. in this process, the principle that the candidates are bound by the treaty, the whole treaty and only the treaty should be respected. this means that they should meet the membership criteria laid down in the treaty, but at the same time no additional requirements can be imposed on them. i am convinced that the accession of new member states, whose public deficit and debt levels are often much lower than those of the rest of the union, will strengthen the euro area. in conclusion, i would like to thank the president of the eurogroup, mr juncker, for participating in our debate, and i hope that this debate will inspire him to lead the eurogroup even better. and i would also like to thank mr garcía-margallo y marfil for the good report he has produced, and i fully agree with most of the conclusions of that report.
member of the commission. mr president, thank you very much to all the members for their speeches. i think the debate shows that it is useful to have a report like this every year on the functioning of the euro area and its results, which is the first time it has been adopted by the commission and is being debated in parliament. as a conclusion to today's debate, one can make an optimistic statement: the euro area is growing again, contrary to the claims of those who said that the euro area was a very low growth area. the euro zone is growing by 2.6% this year, perhaps even a little more by the end of the year. the euro area creates jobs and reduces unemployment. we expect that five million jobs will be created in the euro area between now and 2008. it is rarely said, but it is true, that since the beginning of this decade, despite low growth, in the euro zone and in the european union as a whole, of course, much more jobs have been created than in the united states, which is always the reference point to be imitated in policies and strategies for job creation. i therefore believe that, in analysing the functioning of the area and in analysing the results we are achieving thanks to monetary integration, there are elements which can justify a moderately optimistic assessment. but it is also true that there are elements which must continue to attract our attention, because there is still much to be done. there is much to be done, as many of you have said, to increase potential growth, to continue to reduce unemployment, to enable higher growth and higher employment levels to increase the well-being of our citizens, to reduce inequalities, to provide a stronger basis for our social protection systems, for our social service and benefit systems. that requires, on the one hand, as many of you have said, that we continue to comply, to comply better with the criteria of stability and budgetary discipline laid down in the treaty and implemented through the implementation of the stability and growth pact, which is being applied in a reasonably positive and consensual way. it also calls for the reforms and deepening of the lisbon strategy to be pursued and for the internal market project to be completed. because this project to remove barriers and facilitate the four freedoms has proved to be a solid basis for facing the future in better conditions. it also calls for better governance in the euro area, according to the analysis and in line with many of its conclusions. i believe that the effectiveness of the eurogroup's workings has improved since it has been given a stable presidency, headed by mr juncker, who is with us today. it allows us to make better progress in the analysis, in the common understanding, in the coordination of decisions which affect the member states, but which cannot be imposed on them from above, which must be adopted by consensus, with their full conviction, within their competence. we must also strengthen dialogue. and if there are any doubts left in the minds of any members, the commission and i, as commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, believe that the bilateral dialogue between the commission and parliament on these matters must be deepened. i think we must move forward with a tripartite dialogue between the eurogroup presidency, the commission and parliament on these issues: on the functioning of the eurogroup, on the issues that attract our attention and, if you agree, i also think we must move forward with a dialogue that includes - why not - the european central bank, which is holding a monetary dialogue with you, but also a monthly dialogue with us, while fully respecting its independence. i believe that parliament can and should be part of that exchange of views between all the institutions from time to time, whose common objective is the smooth functioning of the euro area and that the euro, our common currency, produces the best possible results for all our european citizens.
president of the eurogroup. mr president, i should like to begin by apologizing for my delay. the luxembourg-strasbourg route is terribly congested at the entrance to strasbourg and traffic jams prevented me from arriving on time. i have scrupulously observed the traffic rules, and i am the first victim of that, since i am late to this debate. i would like to say, however, how much i value this debate, because the reflections of parliament are not only important in themselves, but they also feed into the discussions of the eurogroup, which i chair, assisted, inspired, pushed and led by my friend, the commissioner responsible for monetary affairs, joaquin almunia. first of all, mr president, i would like to say that growth seems to me to be robust: it is expanding and is not threatened, despite the 'problems' that we are facing, particularly from france. the employment rate is increasing, unemployment is falling, but it has not reached acceptable levels. as for growth, if we put it into perspective, it will probably be stronger than we think at the moment and it will be stronger than we thought six months ago anyway. in 2007, it will be necessary to see to what extent the economic slowdown in the united states will influence the economic performance of the euro area. the eurogroup believes that the impact of the us slowdown on the euro area economies will be less pronounced than in 2000-01. we note that the us economic downturn is hitting the building sector particularly hard and will not spread to other sectors of the us economy. the impact on growth in the euro area will therefore be less pronounced than before, although the country-by-country results will differ significantly. why have we now reached a level of growth which seems more appropriate to us than a few years ago? firstly, because the euro has been a massive protection for us over the years. it is never enough to say, when we take stock of the introduction of the euro: the euro has protected us, it protects us and it will continue to protect us! imagine the state of the european economy and the state of european monetary systems, if the euro had not existed during the crises! during this period, when it was being prepared, we witnessed the financial crises in latin america, russia, southeast asia. imagine the slippages that would have resulted from the system that we had before the european system was introduced, at the time of the iraq war, at the time of september 11, 2001! imagine what the european currencies would be like if they still existed, while geostrategic theatres are a constant source of concern! imagine what some national currencies would look like after the french "no" and the dutch "no"! the euro has protected us, and it has even protected those countries which have expressed some reluctance to join europe when it came to approving the constitutional treaty. the budgetary situation improved when, wisely and with the agreement and often even the active support of parliament, we amended and reformed the stability and growth pact. some felt entitled to express their deep concern following the adoption of the reformed pact. today we see that the mechanisms of the reformed pact are in place and that all governments are working to implement its main rules and guiding principles. budget deficits are falling and there is a general consensus that all member states are taking the preventive component of the stability pact seriously: all have decided to allocate tax surpluses due to the economic recovery as a priority to deficit reduction and to reducing the level of public debt. i'm glad you did. we are in the process of deepening our reflection in the eurogroup on strengthening budgetary surveillance and we are doing so together with the commission, whose friendly way of assisting the eurogroup presidency has proved very effective. we shall see at our next meeting, which will take place towards the end of november, and therefore after my visit, mrs berès, to the economic and monetary committee, which you chair with such talent, how we can strengthen this budgetary surveillance. we shall now do so on the basis of a horizontal report from the commission which will certainly emphasize the real political problems, including the political and economic ones, which are arising and which will certainly formulate, in a form which we have yet to determine, specific recommendations for the individual member states, or even for the whole of the area. as regards the monetary area as a whole, i would like us to take seriously this year an invitation from the commission that has been going on for some time, namely to devote a specific chapter of the conclusions of the european council, when it examines the progress of the lisbon strategy, to the euro area, a chapter which will include the structural reforms that we will have to implement in the individual euro area countries. on the question of structural reforms, i would simply say, mr president, that the value which these structural reforms have already brought to the cohesion of the euro area is being underestimated. i do not agree with all the structural reforms, generally of any kind, that have been carried out in all the member states, but the fact is that contrary to an idea, to an image that we very often give of the euro area, a large procession of structural reforms has been set in motion and that today we are already reaping the fruits of this major structural reform that we have implemented at the level of the euro area. if you look closely at the national reform programmes introduced by the various member states, you will see that there are many structural responses, that they are generally consistent with each other and that this reform process must be continued, without however being reduced to a badly mixed neoliberalism, without however being reduced to a frenzied, unrestrained and unembarrassed deregulation, which i am against, because i still believe that the euro and the euro zone and the coherence of the policies we will implement would gain in credibility if we complemented our action on structural reforms by the establishment of a minimum social rights framework, which would guarantee all workers throughout the euro zone a certain minimum number of rights that member states could not, by trying to strengthen their national dimension, combat without diminishing it. workers in europe have a right to know what they are supposed to do. we must stop giving the impression that monetary union is an undertaking of finance ministers, bankers, big business and big industry, and that it is in fact being carried out against the most basic rights of workers, who are still the majority of the population in europe. a word, mr president, on the enlargement of the euro area. i do not agree with all those who suggest that we in the euro area have become stricter than before towards the new member states who wish to join the area. the criteria we are applying are those of the maastricht treaty. there was no demand to change the criteria we adopted when the treaty was signed on 7 february 1992 in maastricht. there is no question of abandoning the policy of nominal convergence and replacing it with a criterion which would omit the application of certain criteria, which the first members of the euro area had to meet. as for those who question the nominal convergence criteria, on a non-theoretical level, i would caution them against the real risks of seeing the nominal convergence criteria replaced by the real convergence criteria. the application of criteria for real convergence would put many new member states further away from joining the euro area. i therefore believe that it is wise to stick to the criteria we currently have and that this policy would strengthen the credibility of the euro area. the external representation would in fact deserve a long explanation, a brief explanation may suffice. the euro area must be represented by one man, one vote and one seat in all international bodies, including international financial organisations. i am convinced that we will not be there when my mandate expires on 1 january 2009. i am convinced, however, that the day will come when even the most reluctant europeans will realise that we are constantly making a mockery of ourselves by claiming to be the joint controllers of the world's monetary affairs if we continue to present ourselves in disorderly fashion in international forums. i would like to make a few comments, mr president, which i felt i could make, and i apologise for not having been able to reply to all those who have spoken, as i usually do. i have to answer briefly because i was not present when the other speakers spoke with the commitment that characterizes this house.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 11.30 a.m.
the next item is the joint debate on the report drawn up by marie-noëlle lienemann, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for community action in the field of marine environmental policy (marine strategy directive) (com (2005) 0505 - c6-0346/2005 - 2005/0211 (cod)) (a6-0373/2006) - the report drawn up by aldis kušķis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the thematic strategy for the protection and preservation of the marine environment (2006/2174 (ini)) (a6-0364/2006)
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the marine environment has long faced a variety of threats, and an ambitious maritime strategy is both necessary and desirable. the european union has a maritime area larger than its entire territory, 1200 ports and 90% of its external trade is transported by sea. we consider it important to stress the interdependence between the common fisheries policy and the proposed marine environment strategy. it is logical and appropriate to allow the vessel threatened and punished to proceed to the nearest shelter and then to the nearest available repair yard, if this does not endanger health and the environment. also noteworthy is the proposal to make the arctic a nature reserve, dedicated to peace and science.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wanted to thank the questioners for bringing up this much-needed debate on milk quotas. the problems associated with these amounts are a concern for farmers all over europe. i would like to say that these quotas should be maintained for a longer period, but there is obviously a question of their level, because the milk quotas are obviously unfair and there are many examples of how these quotas are not adapted to the market needs of individual member states. there are countries that are clearly affected, and the amounts are not in line with the needs of those countries as consumers. italy, spain and certainly poland, the new member state, are certainly such countries. so if the quotas are to be maintained, then in the interests of justice and european solidarity, they must be revised.
mr. chairman, please! the common agricultural policy has been and will be the subject of many questions. there are and will be both opponents and supporters. the european commission's intention to review the common agricultural policy, including milk quotas, has raised concerns and hopes, especially in the affected countries, including poland. poland received a shockingly low milk quota. by comparison, germany, with a population of 80 million, has about 28 million tons of milk. the poles, who are half the population, have only about 9 million tons of milk. so in practice, that's about four and a half million tons less than poland should have received, because it should have received between 13 and 13 and a half million tons. so let us ask ourselves the question: what would happen if milk quotas were to be abolished, especially in countries where family farms, like poland, are dominant, rather than farms? would not a change in the rules of the cap lead to the bankruptcy of these farms?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i very much regret that the new member states will be the least beneficiaries of the common agricultural policy. they're taking advantage of this kind of marshall plan for agriculture, which has the great advantage of being farsighted and predictable. but we joined the european union late in the day. but i regret that the polish farmer has not yet learned to live with the milk quotas, which we have a few million tons short and we are currently paying fines for overproduction of milk, and they are already expected to be abolished in 2015. in the meantime, unfortunately, many polish milk producers will disappear from the market.
mr. chairman, please! the debate on milk quotas in the european parliament is getting hotter. and the fundamental question that everybody is asking is, what happens when we end the milk quota system? the commissioner has spoken out against the current system, saying it is an outdated system that is holding back the development of the eu dairy sector and reducing its competitiveness on the world market. the abolition of the system is opposed by countries with unfavourable natural conditions for milk production. for them, the abolition of quotas will mean the transfer of production to other regions, which will entail the loss of a source of livelihood and stable income for many farmers. this may also apply to the least economically developed regions of eastern poland. poland is one of the countries that has been granted harmful, very low milk quotas. we could be a net importer in the near future. according to some experts, the negative effects of maintaining a rigid quota system will be more severe for poland than for other member states, and the quotas only limit the possibility of modernising and using production potential, as the aid to the dairy sector in the union is significantly reduced. many claim that quotas on milk production have lost their economic justification. we also have negotiations in the wto, where we have promised to eliminate export subsidies and to reduce significantly the level of tariffs protecting the internal market of the union. how will this affect the eu milk market? it now appears appropriate to reduce the restrictive nature of the quotation system, for example by combining wholesale and direct quotation settlement and by limiting the amount of penalties for exceeding the limits. i would remind the commissioner that there are member states which do not use their quotas.
member of the commission. mr president, i have listened with great interest to this interesting and very passionate debate. it reflects perfectly the importance of the dairy sector. as mr mulder rightly said, the quota system was introduced in 1984 at a time when we wanted to maintain high prices for our products. at that stage, therefore, the quota system was a good idea. however, things have changed dramatically over the last 20 years and there was therefore a discussion, as part of the 2003 reform, on what to do with the dairy sector. the decision was taken to maintain the quota system until 31 march 2015. it was decided to increase quotas and reduce prices. the phasing-in of these changes will be finalised next year. then there was the possibility of this health check. there is not going to be a new reform in 2008/2009. that is important. the health check simply provides an opportunity to streamline and simplify the common agricultural policy, in line with the 2003 cap reform. in my dealings with parliament i always try to play with a very open hand. i do not keep my cards close to my chest. we need to have a discussion, as part of the health check, on what we do with the quota system when it expires in 2015. i have no fixed ideas on phasing-out, but we need to tell the dairy sector whether or not we want to prolong the quota system. i am not proposing any changes, as the quota system will expire in 2015 if we do not do anything, but we must therefore tell the sector whether or not we are sticking to the agreement to abolish the quota system in 2015. if we say nothing, farmers all over europe will assume that this will not happen. they will keep their quotas on the basis of these still being worth something after 31 march 2015, only for the council and parliament to suddenly decide to abolish them, with the value of quotas falling to zero overnight. they will be worth absolutely nothing! that is not predictability, and we must therefore send a clear signal of what the future will be. as i said in my first contribution, we will have this dairy market outlook report at the end of next year. i have a tradition, mr nicholson, of working closely with parliament, and specifically with the committee on agriculture and rural development, so at that point we can discuss what is going to happen, in order to provide stability and avoid uncertainty for the dairy sector in the european union.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by jan mulder, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) (com (2006) 0237 c6-0237/2006 2006/0082 ((cns)) (a6-0319/2006) and the report by lutz goepel, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down the rules for the voluntary modulation of direct payments provided for in regulation (ec) no 1782/2003 establishing common rules for direct support schemes under the common agricultural policy and establishing a common support scheme for farmers (com (2006) 0235/2006 (a6-0231/2006)), and amending regulation (ec) no 1290/2005.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wanted to congratulate mr. goepel on a great report, which i fully share. the proposed modulation directly concerns the old member states, but also raises concerns for farmers in the new member states. the modulation is undermining the vision of stability of agricultural policy rules until 2013, introducing what we fear most in the new countries: that is a partial re-nationalisation of agricultural policy which the new, poorer countries will not be able to afford. and that's why we're worried. let us stick to the pre-established principles of agricultural policy. the stability of these rules until 2013 is the minimum necessary certainty we must give our farmers. too many shocking changes fall on them in a short time. changing the support system, liberalizing agricultural markets, constantly raising standards and norms in various fields. this is too much at once, and agriculture needs clear and stable rules at least for the next few years. that is why i support mr goepel's report.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's debate on voluntary modulation of direct payments once again points to the different understanding of the common agricultural policy by the old and new member states. the old countries, when they think about the future of the eu's agricultural policy, they think about the future of their own agriculture, not the future of agriculture in the enlarged union. the argument that the commission's proposal should be rejected is entirely justified. the claim that it violates the principles of competition and solidarity, threatens to renationalize, breaks promises made to farmers, is true. but why were these arguments not taken into account when the conditions for the accession of the new member states in 2004 were set? these conditions clearly distorted competition and the principle of solidarity. the poor, receiving many times lower benefits, are condemned to unequal competition. they have re-nationalised the common agricultural policy in the new member states, which in 2004 contributed 75% of their budget to the first pillar, while the old 15 receive 100% of eu support. isn't that hypocritical? the conditions of accession were not based on objective criteria, discriminatory production quotas were imposed, ignoring production potential and food self-sufficiency, for example in the milk sector. support was withdrawn in obvious situations (fruit and vegetables). the dramatically low incomes of farmers in the new countries were not taken into account. this is a dangerous way of thinking for farmers, for consumers and for the union's economy as a whole.
mr. chairman, please! like my predecessors, i wish to express my support for the draft report by mr mulder on the question of portugal's exemption from the national co-financing requirement of eur 320 million. it's a good decision, and it's a solid decision, and it's even more important in light of the drought that's hit this country. i fully support what mrs batzel has said in relation to mr goepel's report, but with regard to mr mulder's report, particularly the last paragraph in which the rapporteur objects to the way in which funds for rural development are allocated under the current rules and calls for the allocation to be based on objective criteria, i would like to draw attention to the following facts. the new member states are characterised by significant underinvestment in the agricultural sector and by huge income disparities compared to the rest of the european union. they continue to be excluded from the basic principles of non-discrimination, solidarity and proportionality of the treaty, both because of the co-financing of direct payments from their own budgets, which are much smaller, and because of the much smaller pool of funds promised to them during the 2007-2013 accession negotiations for rural development, which was cut by eur 20 billion. in this context, it should also be stressed that support for rural development as outlined in the community's strategic guidelines should take into account the different nature of structural problems in the eu-15 and eu-10, including bulgaria and romania, and should be implemented with particular attention to providing the necessary financial resources for the new member states, given the huge needs for basic investment and the need to provide broad support for rural areas. rural development policy offers a range of mechanisms to address the diverse needs of agriculture in europe. however, it is necessary to continue to search for effective mechanisms for this policy so that it meets its objectives and becomes increasingly effective for all countries of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the proposal for so-called voluntary modulation by member states of direct payments in agriculture actually leads to a cut of around 20% in the payments to farmers, in breach of the standards and procedures in force in the union. exclusion from modulation of holdings receiving less than eur 5 000 means inclusion of holdings up to 40 hectares. this apparently logical system cannot be coherent in reality, for example because the new member states, unlike the old ones, already co-finance the common agricultural policy by supplementing the union's subsidies from their own budget. i believe that our efforts should be directed towards removing the existing disparities and introducing as soon as possible equal rules and subsidies in all member states. otherwise, regional disparities will continue to grow. i would remind you that we polish members of parliament have warned against the consequences of adopting the union budget at just 1% of gdp and limiting the funds for rural development.
mr. chairman, please! direct payments are a chance for many poor polish farming families to make ends meet. a way to offset the increase in production costs after poland's accession to the european union. a voluntary modulation of the level of the minimum wage by up to a third since 2008, when it is already very low in our country, would cause farms and families to suffer serious losses. the valuable rural development objective to which the money thus saved would be allocated should be pursued by other means. we could limit the area allowances for the top earners not to 50, but to 100, 200, 500 hectares and more.
mr. chairman, please! in thanking both members for their work, i would like to refer to mr mulder's report. we are discussing the question of a financial mechanism for the territories inhabited by about 20% of the union's population, but which are very important for europe's food security. we must therefore do everything we can to strengthen the position of rural areas, and that is precisely the cohesion we should be seeking. the european agricultural fund for rural development is also to serve it. it is important for all countries, including my country, poland. although we are debating today the amendment of the regulation, it should be clearly stated that the order of the proceedings has been altered in relation to portugal, which i support. first, the procedure should be defined and then the financial arrangements. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on the proposal. other actions may lead to a breakdown in european solidarity in this area.
mr. chairman, please! in order to maintain the competitiveness of european agriculture, the current level of direct payments in the old member states of the european union should be maintained. and not to introduce an additional 20% modulation. the arguments presented by the european commission are unconvincing and the proposal is not in line with the principles of the common agricultural policy. more rural development funding is needed in the new member states, inter alia, to reduce employment in agriculture and accelerate the movement of land from social, small-scale to commodity, market-based agriculture. this will improve the competitiveness of agriculture in the new member states, mainly through increased production. what was done? we recall that the new financial perspective adopted for 2007-13 reduced rural development appropriations by eur 20 billion compared to the european commission's proposal. we should use different support methods because the eu countryside and agriculture are different. rural areas in the eu countries, including poland, are poorer than cities and need new jobs, services and better environmental protection. that is why we must continue to support farmers and villages throughout the european union for many years to come.
member of the commission. mr president, i have listened to the debate carefully and with huge interest. i can only repeat what i said at the outset, i.e. that the commission proposal is consistent with the european council’s request. as mrs mcguinness rightly said, we have tried to align it as much as possible with the existing rules on obligatory modulation and financing of the rural development policy. tomorrow, if – or i should say when – the european parliament rejects the commission’s proposal, i intend to raise the issue with my fellow commissioners in order to consider our position carefully. that is completely in accordance with the framework agreement between our two institutions.
thank you, commissioner, that was very clear. i thank all those who took part in the debate. i should also like to thank all the interpreters. that concludes the joint debate. the vote will be tomorrow.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank the rapporteur for her work. the air traffic problems, which are currently increasing by around 5% per year, require both a rapid, comprehensive and effective solution and a solution with a long-term perspective. if the necessary steps are not taken soon, airspace over europe will soon be almost completely blocked. it is therefore good that we are setting up the sesar joint undertaking, which is intended to serve the flight management and safe operation of european airports. i am pleased to announce that the timeliness of connections and the safety of travel will be improved, as will the environmental impact. this undertaking should employ many highly qualified people. the co-financing of this project by the union and the private sector is very important. i'd like to see this bill passed, it deserves to be implemented. however, it should stimulate compatible solutions in other parts of the world. all of this doesn't exempt us from looking for radically innovative solutions, perhaps flying, transatlantic airports.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. although mercury and its compounds are highly toxic, especially methylmercury, the prohibition of mercury thermometers, including specialist thermometers, and other measuring devices with a transitional period of only 18 months is highly excessive and unjustified, especially for poland and those countries where mercury thermometers are widely used not only in hospitals but also for basic home diagnostics. adopting such a short transition period can have negative consequences in terms of neglect of diagnosis with the possibility of deterioration of health, but also financial costs for hospitals and poor household budgets. in poland, there is a saying: "when a man is in a hurry, the devil rejoices". the devil apparently is currently making a fortune in electronic measuring devices, with lofty slogans of protecting the health of the public. we're behind a longer transition period.
mr. chairman, please! it is difficult to say that there is a pan-european financing market today, it is very fragmented, and this is caused by legal, tax and regulatory obstacles. most of the mortgages on the market are financed by the savings of small-time whores. less than 40% of such loans are co-financed by the capital markets and their share, although insignificant, is slowly increasing. sweden, germany, there are quite substantial mortgage bond markets. in denmark, for example, mortgage institutions issue bonds for the full value of mortgage loans. mortgage-backed securities markets are strong in many countries of the union, although there are some countries where they are not present at all. in poland, the market has also developed considerably over the last few years, which has also had a significant impact on the level of economic growth. given the impact of this area on the markets of our countries, i support the establishment of a legal framework to allow for the efficient conduct of portfolio transactions.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. european integration is only part of the answer to the question of economic growth in europe. the key role here is that of the member states and their own decisions on public finances and economic reform. we have many examples of good practice in this regard. this success of national reforms has enabled some eu member states to complete the 2004 enlargement quickly and to adopt the rules of the common market easily in all areas. it is the national success of ireland, finland, the netherlands and the united kingdom that allows these countries to look at the world competition with greater confidence. on the other hand, a social model based on rigid and short working hours, on avoiding competition not only globally but even within the common market, is the road to social and economic crisis. given the political and economic balance of power in europe, i have serious doubts whether the often-mentioned constitutional treaty is the right answer to our economic woes. those countries that are worse at solving their own internal problems gain even more influence over eu affairs. we're losing the balance between the different models, we're limiting systemic competition. this diagnosis of power structure comes from debates about services, about working hours, and finally about the posting of workers. i am afraid, figuratively speaking, of a treaty which, in terms of legislation and regulation, will give us less of britain and more of germany and france. among all the actions the commission intends to take in 2007, i consider better regulation to be the most important for growth. it is a shame that an organisation which for 50 years has been the expression of the four fundamental freedoms enshrined in the treaties, now costs businessmen 600 billion euros a year. it is even more shameful that despite the agreements reached last year, the regulatory burden has not been reduced, and european law has not been improved. i hope 2007 will be a breakthrough. but that breakthrough will not come until we answer ourselves honestly today about the reasons for this failure in 2006. how is it possible that the demands for simplification, codification and unification of european law are met with resistance? whose resistance is this? where are those gordian knots that you still can't cut? i'd like to ask you to answer these questions today.
mr. chairman, please! i was very pleased to welcome the last two items in the programme, namely the strategic initiatives and the priority strategies. it is about communication and i would like to thank commissioner margot wallström for preparing this very important part, especially in 2006, because 2007 will be a breakthrough year. in 2007, internal reforms will have to be undertaken and preparations for constitutional reforms, mainly related to the introduction of the european constitution, will have to be made. i think, however, that the commissioner has been left to her own devices, that the commission has not given this part of the budget the attention it deserves and has not given it sufficient support in preparing for the reform it needs, even if it is its own reform. i wanted to ask the commission what it has done to start operating in 2009 under new conditions, under a new treaty, with an increased number of commissioners or without them. the last issue i want to raise is the internal issue of europe being a better, safer place for our citizens to live. this is what all eu citizens expect, but citizens of the new member states are worse off. they have fewer rights in many areas, they are discriminated against, for example when crossing borders, when it comes to sis, schengen, and i would like this element to be eliminated. and it would also eliminate the fact that we don't have to talk about the forced labor camps in europe.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european union has done a lot in recent years to make itself visible on the world stage. for this process of emancipation to develop, we must face serious problems. since the 2004 enlargement, we have been neighbours in a very troubled part of europe, the eastern part of europe, where in recent years we have seen a reversal of russia's brutal policy towards its neighbours. these neighbours are the countries that are also our neighbours in the eu today. these are often - as in the case of georgia and ukraine - countries covered by our neighbourhood policy, which the commission intends, and rightly so, to even strengthen. successful reform of financial assistance instruments is not all, however. to play a significant role in the world, especially when we think of the european union as a soft power, we need credibility. this credibility is being put to the test today, we will not be a global player or even a regional player if we do not save belarus from annexation by russia, which may take place even in the coming months. we will not be a global player if we sell human rights in russia for gas, if we cowardly close the door to pro-european, democratic and pro-western policies in ukraine and georgia. these are the key objectives for our foreign policy instruments. if we fail to use them effectively, the world will see the gap between our often moralizing statements and our effectiveness. it is a union that the world does not need, a union that the world will certainly despise.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the draft resolution of the european parliament on a new framework strategy on multilingualism deserves special attention. language is the foundation of a nation's culture and a treasure that we should all benefit from. that is why we are watching with great interest any attempts to interfere with multilingualism in the european union and react to attempts to limit it. we welcome the initiative to establish a european language competency index, provided that it takes account of all the official languages of the european union and is not limited to five languages in projects or studies. for these reasons, i have tabled an amendment to article 6 on behalf of the uen political group, which aims to delete words that distort the idea of multilingualism and make it possible to limit the study to just five languages. i ask the members to support this amendment, otherwise this document, which is very important and essential for multilingualism, will not reflect the full intentions and tendencies that we have.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the services sector accounts for almost 70% of the european union's gdp and is the main source of economic growth. however, thousands of bureaucratic obstacles are holding back the development of this sector. the main objective of the services directive is to remove administrative barriers, leading to the facilitation of cross-border services activities in the markets of the 25 member states of the union. the european commission has identified more than 90 barriers that service providers such as mechanics, accountants, it specialists, etc. have to overcome to operate in another member state. these obstacles are generally deliberately used by countries which, fearing competition from other countries' operators, protect their own markets at all costs. this is mainly at the expense of consumers, who are offered more expensive and lower quality services. the services directive, while watered down, is a step in the right direction on the arduous road to building a competitive european economy and making life easier, especially for small businesses. whether it will be a milestone in unlocking the barriers to the provision of services in the internal market, as commissioner mccreevy has been advertising, will be seen in the coming years. this will only be the case if member states implement it into their legal systems in a way that effectively minimises barriers to the freedom to provide services, which are incompatible with the treaty and harmful to european consumers and businesses. the european commission has a major role to play in this respect, and it should be responsible for ensuring that the treaties and european legislation are respected. fortunately, the further deterioration of the services directive was avoided by rejecting all the amendments tabled by mrs gebhardt in the committee on the internal market. further watered down the already difficult compromise version of the services directive approved by the council would not only be detrimental to the free market in services, but could lead to the project being thrown into the trash and three years of hard work wasted.
mr. chairman, please! let's be frank, the bolkestein directive was better, actually more opening up the market for services, and this resistance, which also manifested itself in the european parliament, was resistance to the spirit of solidarity in the european union. but this compromise, a very difficult compromise, is of course of some value, it is better than no directive at all. it's a fact. what's there to worry about? to put it bluntly, this large number of exceptions. i wouldn't be trumpeting success today, saying this is some historic moment. let's wait for some practice, if this number of exceptions does not turn into a situation in which the polish plumber will be an unwanted guest. finally, "not as scary a devil as they paint him", not as horrible a polish plumber as he was portrayed in this room as well.
mr. chairman, please! the services directive is not just a piece of legislation on services, it is not just a step towards liberalising services, it is not just a lot of facilities for european service providers. the service directive is first and foremost evidence. proof to all europeans that a united europe can work together and that there are tangible benefits for the average citizen, proof that the union can do important things together and that a widely accepted compromise can be worked out on the basis of common experience. the work on the directive has shown that we can overcome national, party and historical divisions and produce a legislative document for a consumer market of 450 million people that represents the interests of both service providers and service users in a balanced way. i am pleased with the current compromise proposal, although i expected more openness and respect for the principle of country of origin. many people criticize the directive as being too liberal, as being too social, but in my opinion, thanks to hundreds of hours of work and the involvement of many people, the directive has become a compromise legislative act of a united europe, where we open and liberalise the markets for services, while at the same time providing adequate protection for consumers and service providers. in member states such as poland, the directive brings with it many hopes for more employment opportunities, which many service providers and service users are looking forward to. i am convinced that we, as representatives of the european citizens, have learned our lesson and will vote in good conscience today in favour of the directive. it is an important step towards integrating the single market, although we still have a long way to go before it is fully open. it is also a milestone in the implementation of the provisions of the treaty of rome, which were not previously implemented and whose 50th anniversary we will celebrate next year. the work on the services directive was particularly important for the new member states. during the first reading, we often observed a lot of national egoism, protectionist and cyclical activities, but at the same time we managed to find a common denominator for all the interests of the eu countries.
mr. chairman, please! after two years of difficult negotiations, the services directive will finally be adopted by parliament today. it is a good day not only for polish plumbers, but above all a good day for european consumers and businesses. the services sector accounts for 70% of the european economy, which is why it is so important to open up to competition and to give businesses the freedom to buy and provide services across europe. of course, the compromise reached is not perfect and does not meet all expectations. there was a lot of misunderstanding and ideological conflict, too much propaganda about social dumping and too little thought about the interests of europe as a whole. and reasonable fears of competition from other member states meant that no sufficient consideration was given to rational arguments and elementary economic logic. the liberalisation of the services market, on the other hand, means an increase in the gross domestic product in all member states and is a powerful stimulus for the creation of several hundred thousand new jobs. the draft directive under discussion today, although imperfect, is an important step forward and i call for its adoption without amendments.
mr president, if paragraph 20 is not rejected, i propose an oral amendment: 'otherwise, lesser-used languages and less-recognised languages, particularly in western europe, of the new member states, will be left behind with their linguistic social space taken over by the more widely spoken languages, especially english'.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the amended draft services directive. in other words, i was against her being rejected. as i am generally optimistic, i believe that it will contribute to reducing bureaucracy, to economic growth and to the creation of new jobs. but let's be honest, the original version of the directive, proposed by the european commission three years ago, was much better and could have done a better job of meeting the lisbon objectives. the current directive is seriously watered down and it is difficult to speak of a great success. some of the old member states of the union seem to fear the freedom to provide services and to compete with the new countries, explaining this by social dumping. it is difficult to understand, because i think we all want europe to be dynamic and competitive.
in writing. the only advantage of the compromise on the services directive is that its adoption will not undermine the principles of the functioning of the services market. that's the only reason we can support this compromise in today's vote. the final outcome of the operation of this directive will be determined by the european court of justice, which will no doubt rule on disputes based on contradictory provisions of the directive on many occasions. on the one hand, we have the declared freedom to provide services. on the other hand, we have the exclusion of the operation of this directive in the field of undefined public and social services and temporary agency work, the exclusion of the impact of the directive on the form of labour law and collective agreements and the elimination of restrictions on the work of posted workers. this means that no significant barriers to the provision of services in the eu will be removed with the adoption of the services directive. this is a 100% compromise at the expense of the new member states, which have a competitive advantage on the union market in the services sector. all the social motives for introducing these exceptions and limitations do not fulfil their declared social role. they are only an alibi for the economic chauvinism of the trade unions and other interest groups in the countries of the old european union. the debate on this project so far is the biggest display of european hypocrisy in this term. the european parliament, and the whole of the union behind it, pretends to introduce the rules of the common market in services. we are not only deceiving ourselves, but our citizens.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament resolution supports the northern dimension policy and defines the north sea region as a priority area. since the enlargement in 2004, the baltic sea has become almost an internal sea, the 'mare nostrum' of the european union. this region can become the most dynamic economic region in the union, demonstrating the development of a european economy based on the latest technologies, modern and competitive on a global scale. the need to protect the baltic sea ecosystem, which is highly vulnerable due to its shallow, slow water change and high pollution, should therefore be emphasised. particular attention should be paid to fostering innovation in research and to addressing cultural and civil society issues. the baltic sea, which links the european union, russia, norway and iceland, should become an example of an area of peace and security. i would particularly like to highlight the joint analysis by the european union and russia of the possibilities of transforming the kaliningrad region into a pilot region with better access to the internal market. cooperation in the baltic sea region can show the future of this part of our continent, cooperation with russia and other countries.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the preparation of a good report on the future of the baltic sea. however, when we talk about the specific features of a region, we cannot forget the important factors that shape its character. one is the historical legacy of the chemical weapons stockpiles from world war ii still lying at the bottom of the baltic. this is coupled with the issue of a fragile ecosystem, which is further threatened by heavy shipping and planned investments, such as the construction of the northern gas pipeline, which could lead to an ecological disaster. when undertaking such projects, it is necessary to carefully examine their potential impact on the environment, consult with stakeholders and possibly abandon the planned works if it is found that they may have a negative impact on the baltic ecosystem. environmental issues and the interests of the countries of the region must also be taken into account in the creation of the planned maritime highway. equal access to its benefits should be ensured for baltic ports. it is important to ensure close cooperation between member states in the construction of energy networks and to ensure solidarity between the union and russia. poland is currently blocking the deal with russia until it opens up to our meat and agricultural products. the union responded by saying that the west would not be cold for polish sausage. there was a time when people said, "we don't want to die for gdansk", and we know how that ended. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! the baltic sea, which is now almost an internal sea of the union, is of priority importance both for the region's economy and for the european union as a whole. unfortunately, the baltic sea is the most polluted sea in the world. it therefore needs help, in other words a common strategy and consistent cooperation between the eu and russia to implement it. it is therefore fitting that agreement on a new political declaration on the northern dimension and a framework strategic document will be the subject of discussions at the eu-russia summit in helsinki on 24 november. when we take up the problem of the baltic sea, we must remember that its basin is home to some 85 million people and that it contains a wealth of natural resources, including many endangered species. the sea has fed millions of people for centuries, supporting not only families of fishermen but also other trades. the people of the sea have also created their own culture, which we should protect as carefully as the natural environment, landscape and material values. we therefore look with concern to the planned northern gas pipeline and the associated dangers of chemical contamination and militarization. the baltic sea is a treasure that we have inherited from our ancestors, with the duty to pass it and its values on to future generations.
mr. chairman, please! the northern dimension of the union's external policy is not only a priority for the finnish presidency, it is also a very important direction for polish foreign policy and the foreign policy of the seven baltic member states of the european union. the baltic has been a zone of peaceful cooperation with russia for several years. to keep this up, it is necessary to eliminate the threats that are on the horizon today. i am thinking primarily of the first: the growing dependence of the countries of the region on russian energy supplies and the second, the package of unresolved problems in the kaliningrad region. these challenges are beyond the capacity of each country individually, and beyond the capacity of all eight of us, and it is therefore essential that they become a priority for the european union as a whole. today, as much as 24% of our gas supply comes from russia. in the future, this percentage will increase. the possibility of a gas cartel being set up by the russian side, mentioned by charles tannock a moment ago, is of additional concern. investments such as the baltic gas pipeline increase the eu's dependence on its eastern neighbour. moreover, they create dangerous political tensions between partners within the union itself. the kaliningrad region is a ticking time bomb. worrying is not only the degree of militarization, but also the social situation in kaliningrad: the high percentage of residents infected with aids, the devastation of the environment and the spread of organized crime. so without a common interest on the part of the whole union in these problems, i emphasize, there will be no common policy either on energy or on kaliningrad. and without a common policy, we all lose, we all fail.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to expand on the kaliningrad theme, because kaliningrad is a big challenge. we all hoped that kaliningrad would be to russia what hong kong was to china, but there are concerns that it could be what puerto rico has become to the united states. apart from the dangers mentioned by the previous speaker, mr klich, i would like to draw attention to another unresolved problem, namely that 15 years after the fall of the berlin wall and the end of the cold war, there is a huge amount of armaments in kaliningrad that we simply do not know what they are doing there. the numbers are available because russia, as a signatory to the treaty on conventional arms control, is required to make those numbers public. there are more tanks in kaliningrad than in the british and french armies combined. what are they for, anyway? it's been 15 years, i repeat, since the end of the cold war. the whole package of problems must therefore be solved together with russia, because the future of the baltic sea region will depend to a large extent on the future of the kaliningrad region. and it's probably the most dynamic region today, and its chances of further dynamism are enormous.
mr. chairman, please! i believe that today the baltic sea region will increasingly unite rather than divide the countries of the region by pursuing and strengthening economic interests while respecting their political rights and preserving their environmental heritage. but this will not be possible if the concentration of economic interests is based solely on the pursuit of particular interests, without respect for the principles of good neighbourly cooperation, solidarity and shared responsibility, as is the case, for example, with the construction of the northern gas pipeline, which is mentioned here repeatedly, an investment carried out without the agreement of the baltic sea partners. we must answer the question today: what is the purpose of deepening cooperation among the eight baltic countries, what are the priorities? on the one hand, we are advocating the need to protect the baltic sea ecosystem, but on the other hand we are afraid to have an open and honest debate about the ecological aspects of the construction of the pipeline. i remind you that last year 60 members of this house signed a petition calling for a debate on the environmental aspects of the pipeline. this debate never took place, it was never put on the agenda by the chairmen. i would also like to inform the representatives of the council and the commission that russia is blocking freedom of navigation in the baltic sea by not allowing vessels to pass through the strait between the gulf of vistula and kaliningrad. the polish port of elbląg, which had just been renovated with european money, was thus dying, and it was losing its access to the open sea. the mountain is occupied by russia's unilateral interests, which has its military base over the strait. the baltic strategy recognises these threats, and i thank alexander stubb for his report, he can count on our support for the objectives he wants to pursue, and i also extend my thanks to all the members of the baltic intergroup and its chairman, christopher beazley, for his commitment.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i warmly congratulate the report on european security policy. this is a very good report which, in my view, does not require any further amendments, in particular no amendments which would deprive the european union of any significance in the world military game. the union, if it is to play a growing role in the world, must demonstrate the capacity for an effective military presence not only at its borders but also in other regions of the world. the creation of a defense agency and the harmonization of weapons will not help. we also need to convince the european public to spend more on defence, proportionate to our aspirations. europe has proven that it does not abuse military force, so the pacifist concerns raised in this case are unfounded. on the contrary, we have to fear for our political and military capacity to take responsibility for world security. the construction of a european security policy cannot be geared to duplicating nato, our main and proven instrument of defence policy. our strategic autonomy should not be used to create a dysfunction in political and technical cooperation with the forces of the north atlantic alliance. on the contrary, the western world, which extends far beyond the union's borders, has the right to expect us to make a substantial contribution to cooperation and synergy in our joint activities. it has been balanced in the report and we will therefore be happy to support it in the vote tomorrow.
madam president! today's debate on the implementation of the european security strategy is one of the most important discussions on the future of the union. it is part of the partial acceptance of some of the solutions contained in the dead constitutional treaty. the proposal to appoint a european minister for foreign affairs and defence is dangerous to the interests of many member states. the example of european solidarity in the energy sector was given by germany in its agreement with russia. it is most characteristic and warning. it is understandable that the union should have an instrument of military influence on its immediate environment. however, the attempt to take responsibility for global security in the military dimension is an attempt to replace nato, or more precisely to weaken the influence of the united states in europe and the world. there can be no competition between nato and the european union in the field of security and defence policy. it should be stressed that nato is of far greater importance and potential than the separate armed forces of the union. of course, there are non-nato members of the union, and we need to find a formula for them to engage in european security issues. such cooperation shall take place in the field of cooperation between the national armies of the member states of the union. we don't need to create new commands, we just need to separate the components of the national armed forces to cooperate in specific actions. the need is to create a coherent european intelligence, crisis response and economic threat monitoring system. it is the concern of the nation states and the union to check how each member is prepared for terrorist attacks, whether they have an appropriate system of organizing territorial defence forces. the union's concern should be security in its immediate surroundings, not global influence and involvement in local conflicts in the world.
madam president! the solana strategy of 2003 is a great document. it describes the threats and challenges we face and sets out clearly this specifically european approach to responding, which has become the hallmark of european security and defence policy. in this sense, it does not appear that the document needs to be updated. after all, nato has been using the same strategic concept since april 1999. and that is the only aspect of karl von wogau's proposal that i disagree with. the value of his report lies in something else, in the perspective he has created for epbo. this report is the result of a fair assessment of the current civil-military capabilities of the european union, when karl von wogau says that, "the union currently has only limited capabilities to conduct civil and military operations". karl von wogau draws the right conclusions from this assessment, firstly by calling for intensive cooperation between the european union and nato, and secondly by calling for the union's potential to be concentrated in our immediate geographical neighbourhood. the rapporteur is aware of the source of these limitations when he points to the lack of strategic air and sea transport, interoperable telecommunications systems, and intelligence capabilities, especially satellite capabilities. well, this is not a new observation, because these gaps have been with us at least since the first capabilities commitment conference in 2000. however, the greatest asset of this report, in my view, is the long-term perspective that karl von wogau has created for the epbo. it goes beyond the operational objective, that is to say beyond 2010, and beyond the provisions of the constitutional treaty. the prospect is to create a security and defence union. this is the perspective we must not lose sight of, because it is and should be the compass for the next steps in the development of the epbo.
madam president! i would like to start by quoting a eurobarometer survey which shows that 70% of the european union's citizens support european security and defence policy. the citizens of the union seem to have a better grasp of the challenges of our time than the council representatives, absent from the plenary in strasbourg this evening. the european security strategy should focus on the key objectives in the development of the common security and defence policy of the european union. first of all, it is necessary to demand the integration of the new generation of satellite reconnaissance systems into the european system and the provision of the data thus collected for military, police and disaster management purposes via the satellite centre in torrejón. intelligence remains one of the most important areas of this strategy. secondly, the rapid reaction groups currently being set up must be equipped with the same or at least compatible intelligence and telecommunications equipment as nato.
madam president! the achievement of the objectives set out in the security strategy depends to a large extent on the union's ability to implement that document, which in turn will give the union credibility as a serious security policy actor; an actor that acts decisively in a crisis situation. in the face of current challenges to european foreign policy, such as conflicts in the middle east, military missions involving troops from eu member states, and the rise of new leaders such as china and india, it is necessary to strengthen the common foreign and security policy. in order to make the cfsp more effective and efficient, today we need milestones and answers to the fundamental questions raised by the unadopted constitutional treaty. it also requires individuals and institutions to steer the policy, such as the eu's foreign minister, more funding, better analysis of key issues and coordination of eu member states' policies. it is important to build up own capacities for humanitarian operations, peacekeeping and peace-building, and crisis management. an effective multilateral system and a stable neighbourhood are the means of ensuring the security of the member states of the union. the implementation of the strategy depends to a large extent on the will of the member states and the proper performance of the obligations imposed on them. the adoption of a legislative framework, a timetable for further action and a commitment to external relations are not sufficient to create an effective system for preventing and combating threats.
madam president! "women represent half of the potential of human talents and skills and their under-representation at decision-making level remains to the detriment of society as a whole". it's a quote from the athens ministerial declaration of 14 years ago. despite many similar political declarations, specific action programmes and legislation, the phenomenon of gender discrimination has not disappeared. of the nearly 44,000 parliamentarians in the world, only 16% are women, and of the 191 countries that are currently members of the united nations, only seven have a woman as their highest-ranking head of state, and eight have a woman as their head of government. the absence of women in the political process and decision-making is sometimes linked to difficulties in reconciling social, family and professional life, and is often also the result of discrimination in employment and vocational training. the european union should be an example to the world in promoting equality and democracy, but even here in the european parliament, women make up only 30% of meps. there are countries like cyprus and malta that have no women representatives. member states and political parties across europe should aim for a so-called 'balance gap': between 40 and 60% representation of each gender on the electoral roll. then the representation of the public would be really adequate. i congratulate mrs gomes on a great report which will hopefully contribute to a change in the position of women in political life.
mr. chairman, please! the fight against trafficking in human beings is the great challenge of the 21st century. in the fight for human dignity and to curb this practice, international and national organizations have signed a number of declarations, conventions, directives and are taking a number of actions. the rapporteur notes that these measures reduce trafficking in human beings in a broad sense, but do not eliminate its causes. the causes include: unemployment, hunger, the impoverishment of large social groups, high indirect labour costs, competition, the desire to maximise profit, which often stimulates undeclared work, the tolerance of slave labour by local communities (for example, the case of the italian city of foggia) and sexual violence, ethnic conflicts and wars. the report can serve as a basis for the development of programmes for further economic, legal and political, educational, information and institutional action, the implementation of which will reduce trafficking in human beings, which is contrary to the principles of democracy and human dignity.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her report, which deals with a very important subject of socio-political importance. human trafficking is a global problem and a modern form of slavery that violates basic human rights. the trafficking of women and children is a particularly tragic element of this practice. i'd like to focus on the economic aspects of this phenomenon. it should be noted that trafficking in human beings involves both supply and demand drivers. on the one hand, the lack of a sustainable economic and social future, high unemployment and the prospect of ever-increasing poverty in some developing countries compared to the level of economic and social development in europe, contribute to a situation in which it is easy for criminal organisations to profit from trafficking in human beings. on the other hand, it should be taken into account that the demand for cheap, unregistered and submissive workers in the european union contributes to trafficking in human beings, as the use of such labour can reduce costs. however, this is done at the expense of human dignity and damages employment standards, health and safety measures, fair wages and local and national income through non-payment of taxes and insurance premiums. trafficking in human beings is the fastest growing criminal activity compared to other forms of organised crime in the european union, and measures taken to date to curb trafficking in human beings have not yet produced the desired results. the difficulties in combating this practice are obvious, but the european union's commitment must be firm. the report presented, which proposes an integrated approach and a proposal for an action plan, should therefore be welcomed.
the next item is the report by mr schwab, drawn up on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2005 (2006/2117 (ini)) (a6-0309/2006).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am in a sense playing a dual role, because, as the president said, i am doing this on behalf of the union for a europe of nations and as chairman of the committee on petitions, which gives me a special title to speak on this matter. i would of course like to thank mr schwab for his report, which was very well prepared in our committee and accepted, and i therefore agree with everything mr schwab said. i would like to thank mr diamandouros in particular, who is doing an excellent job, and i would like to commend him for this, because, let me remind you, he was re-elected by a majority of over 90% of the votes in this house. i very much appreciate the contacts that mr diamandouros, the ombudsman, has with the european community, beyond his main role of dealing with complaints. he's had over 170 meetings. i myself witnessed one such meeting in poland, attended by over 150 people who simply wanted to see who the european ombudsman was, what he was saying and what he had to say. this is all thanks to mr. diamandouros's activism. i would like to say - and everyone has said this - that the ombudsman's work is closely linked to, builds on and reflects the greater awareness of the rights that european union citizens have and that they are more aware of thanks to the ombudsman's work. the committee on petitions, of which i am chairman, works very closely with the ombudsman. we have a similar but not identical range of competence and it is therefore important that we are aware of a certain demarcation between the ombudsman's competence and the committee on petitions' competence. i would like to draw attention to one point, if the president will allow me to extend my speech for a few seconds: the committee on petitions is an organ of the european parliament, and we have therefore accepted with great regret that the european parliament and its authorities sometimes ignore our committee in their contacts with the ombudsman. this was the case, for example, when the european parliament signed the new agreement with the ombudsman on 15 march 2006 and the committee whose chairman was not involved in the completion of that act.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the ombudsman's 2005 report shows a growing number of citizens dissatisfied with the institutions of the union. it's striking that they lack transparency and effective control over how our money is spent. the campaign to promote the so-called constitution for europe is a particularly damaging example of the violation of citizens' right to information. last march, i complained to the ombudsman about the way in which 8 million euros had been used to promote the euro-constitution. these funds were only available to her followers. this was confirmed by the european commission's spokesman on 16 february 2005. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the legislative process is based on the principle of subsidiarity. these frank statements by commissioner wallström's spokesman clearly indicate that the opponents of the constitution have not had and do not have a chance to present their views. for example, before the spanish referendum, the european commission spent €1 million on 5 million pro-constitutional pamphlets and stickers distributed in public places. the negative aspects of the introduction of the euroconstitution were deliberately not informed. the fundamental right of european citizens to equal access to information was therefore clearly violated. after more than a year of studying my complaint, the european ombudsman concluded that the european commission had not infringed the right of citizens to equal access to information. then who broke them? the eu institutions, faced with the prospect of disintegration and loss of credibility, are increasingly resorting to false propaganda, financing and imposing only the correct vision of the euro. i appreciate the ombudsman's efforts to ensure the transparency of the work of the eu institutions, but this is still not enough. dinners with representatives of the controlled authorities are not enough to build the credibility and authority of the office. let this office be the true champion of our rights, the champion of truth and the defender of the citizens against the pathology of the eu machinery. but it takes courage and independence.
mr. chairman, please! the 2005 report shows that the ombudsman is successfully pursuing the objectives of increasing the effectiveness of his institution in terms of good administrative behaviour and respect for the rule of law and human rights. here are words of appreciation for the institution's head, professor diamandouros. the public nature of the ombudsman's work is to be welcomed, but it is no less worrying that 70% of all complaints received still fall outside the ombudsman's remit. this is almost always due to the fact that the complaints are not directed against a community institution or body. this shows that the division of powers and the way in which decision-making processes are carried out are still unclear to many european citizens. it is therefore necessary and understandable to the citizens of the european union to define and delimit the role of the ombudsman and the committee on petitions of the european parliament. last year, the number of complaints increased by 5% compared to the previous year, which may indicate that the level of acceptance of his work is increasing or be related to the fact that not all member states have such an institution, which makes many people turn to the european ombudsman in case of problems with national, regional and local administrations. the ombudsman's efforts to provide the public with accurate information should be stepped up, citizens must have easy access to information in their mother tongue, which will make them feel like full citizens of the european union, cared for and whose voice counts. finally, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr schwab, on his excellent report and i think that his role as a rottweiler law enforcer will continue.
ombudsman. mr president, i should like to thank very warmly all the members of this august house for their very encouraging words. i take heart from the support i have from this particular body, whose cooperation i value enormously. i also commit myself and my staff to trying to move forward, to doing more of the same and to doing more of what i am asked to do. it is not possible for me to cover all the remarks that have been made, but let me address some of the issues. firstly, i am very grateful for the support i have received concerning the statute. with the permission of mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou, i would like to clarify two points concerning this, which i will do in greek, since she addressed me in greek. κύριε πρόεδρε, κυρία παναγιωτοπούλου, θέλω να σας διαβεβαιώσω ότι η ευρωπαϊκή υπηρεσία επιλογής προσωπικού εμπίπτει ήδη στις αρμοδιότητες του ευρωπαίου διαμεσολαβητή και είναι ένα θέμα το οποίο μας απασχολεί ιδιαίτερα και το παρακολουθούμε πάρα πολύ στενά. σε ό,τι αφορά το θέμα των δικών μου εισηγήσεων, θέλω επίσης να σας διαβεβαιώσω ότι η παράκληση την οποία κάνω ...(ο ομιλητής διακόπτεται από τον πρόεδρο, ο οποίος του επισημαίνει πρόβλημα διερμηνείας)i apologise, mr president. i did not realise there was a problem with the interpretation. i thought it was an attempt to test my ability to speak in my native tongue! with the president’s permission i would like very briefly to assure mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou and the house that the european personnel selection office is already within the ombudsman’s mandate and we devote a great deal of time to questions concerning recruitment. on the statute, i want to make it absolutely plain that the ombudsman is not, under any circumstances, asking for the right to initiate cases before the court. that is clearly not for us to do. the court and the ombudsman are separate. what we are asking for is the right to intervene before the court, as that right has been given to the european data protection supervisor in cases of major violations of fundamental rights. that is a fundamental difference. i repeat, we are under no circumstances seeking to have access to the court in a way that would in fact go beyond my mandate. i appreciate the encouragement concerning a single code and i am working with commissioner wallström to see whether that would be possible; she referred to that in her own remarks. i wish to thank sir robert atkins in particular for his determination to see that all the special reports submitted to this house by the ombudsman will be dealt with eventually. i hope that will be done. the one-stop shop idea is a very important one. i would very much look forward to working with mrs wallström and with other institutions and perhaps launching a brainstorming and reflection procedure about that idea, so that we can serve citizens better. i want to stress that the european ombudsman and the committee on petitions are complementary organisations; i am very grateful to that committee and we will work with it constantly with a view to moving forward. lastly, i have a few comments to make if i may. the inadmissibles are indeed very important and we shall try to reduce them. but we will continue to help all citizens who come to us for the wrong reason by using the network of ombudsmen of the european union as a mechanism of transferring complaints to them, thereby helping those citizens and in a sense trying to apply subsidiarity in non-judicial mechanisms. we work with our colleagues at national and regional level to serve citizens better, which includes the transfer of inadmissibles. i thank mrs mcguinness very much for her very laudatory remarks. i view myself as an external mechanism of control over the administration and therefore, if everything else fails, yes, i will also have to act as a rottweiler. leaving aside the irish overtones of that – i do not want to get into theological implications here, or divinity – i think that is, however, the ultimate step. the first step, on which i am working very closely with the commission, with the secretary-general of the commission and with mrs wallström, is to reach out to the institutions, to reach out to the commission, and help them understand what their obligations are. it is indeed to help them realise that a change of culture is extraordinarily important if the european institutions, including the commission, are in fact to understand that the institutions exist to serve the citizen and not the other way round. thank you very much for giving me the time to make these clarifications. once again, i want to thank this house for its very encouraging and very warm reactions to my report. (applause)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today at 12 noon. written declaration (rule 142)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the debate today on a european communications policy is fully justified, because in reality there is no such policy. what we call communication today is actually a typical propaganda. the words and arguments that are spoken do not move people, and they will not move people, because people want dialogue, not one-sided propaganda. as long as the solutions are already in place and only the right ones are being imposed, people will not feel like partners in the discussion and will be closed in on themselves and their beliefs. if we really want modern communication, or better: social dialogue, then we must first answer the question whether we are prepared to talk to people, and if so, then let's start the conversation by discussing what the european union should be. is it to be a federal state or a europe of homelands and closely cooperating nations? if we want dialogue, we must accept the results of the constitutional referendums in france and the netherlands and not stubbornly return to the dead draft of the constitution. let us also stop debating whether europe is for the citizens or the citizens for europe and try to have a great european debate about where we are going. and let's bring the union closer to the people, not through propaganda, but through good solutions, clear laws, simplified procedures, less bureaucratic and people-friendly institutions and the possibility of partnership discussions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we have waited a long time for the oral question on varosha to be put on the agenda of the european parliament. today, for the second time, we are discussing matters relating to the committee on petitions. this morning our committee presented its report on the report of the european ombudsman. i am very happy that although we waited for both of these points for a long time, they coincided on the same day. because it is a great satisfaction for us that when we speak of the committee on petitions as a body that is supposed to bring the european institutions closer to the citizens of the european union, it is today that we can speak of a very important petition. and i'm also very happy to see some of the petitioners in the gallery. i am pleased to welcome mr afxentiou and mr christofidis, who are among the authors of the petition and are listening to the debate today. mr president, the decision to put an oral question was taken in our committee at the meeting of 14 july 2005, and the authors of the petition, including those present here today, were also present at that meeting. they represent an organization that is very important in cyprus, and it's called the famagusta refugees movement. the movement was founded in 1976 by displaced residents of famagusta. unfortunately, several postponements by parliament's authorities have caused today's debate to be delayed considerably, but the truth is that the whole problem has become even more bloated in the meantime. the petitioners stressed that it has been 30 years since famagusta was conquered by the turkish army and its part, called varosha, was closed. in presenting their concerns and petition to our committee, the petitioners pointed out that varosha, which has become a completely extinct city, is causing deep divisions among the displaced residents and also among their descendants, hindering the overall economic revival of the city and not contributing to building trust between the cypriot communities. specifically, the petitioners propose the return of varosha to its original inhabitants in accordance with the regulations to be adopted by the international community, including, above all, the european union. the petitioners declared their support for the efforts to help the turkish cypriots, who are legally and sociologically an integral part of cyprus. they also expressed concern at the regulations in place for the benefit of the turkish cypriot community, regarding isolation and independence from the general deliberate strategy to reunify cyprus. the petitioners pointed out that although this is contained in the explanatory memorandum attached to the draft council regulation establishing a financial support instrument for the economic development of the turkish cypriot community, the package is intended to facilitate the reunification of cyprus by supporting economic and social development, with a particular focus on the economic integration of the islands. the petitioners, for their part, also and above all propose facilitating the promotion of trade and tourism, which can improve the welfare of the community and lead to an improvement in the financial situation, and the exploitation of the port of famagusta to its full potential, and consequently the regeneration of the entire surrounding area. the petitioners also proposed that part of the eu funds allocated to support turkish cypriot communities be allocated to a special fund managed by a non-governmental organisation with equal participation of both communities, under the patronage of the european union and the supervision of the european commission. and that this money be used for the renovation, operation and further modernization of the port of famagusta. the committee on petitions, on behalf of the petitioners, asked the european commission to indicate what instruments the european commission intends to use to ensure that the petitioners' case is resolved. the general affairs council of 27 february 2006 decided to call on the commission to make further efforts in the area of direct trade for the benefit of the turkish cypriot community on the basis of the negotiations which took place during the luxembourg presidency, when the issues of the varosha closed area and the port were raised alongside those relating to free trade. and then it was said that this area of famagusta, or varosha, is not used today. this situation is extremely painful for the displaced residents and their descendants, hinders the economic regeneration of the city and does not contribute to building trust between cypriot communities. so what does the commission intend to do in the light of this decision so that the famagusta exclusion zone is returned to its rightful residents? mr president, we have debated many times in this chamber the issues of cyprus, turkey and the problems posed by the unresolved problem of turkish aggression in cyprus. this petition and the oral question that follows it touch on this very problem, which is fundamental for this part of europe, but consequently for the whole of the european union. i shall therefore be very obliged to hear not only the answer to this question but also the implementation of all that has been presented by the various european bodies so far and which is also the demand of the petitioners. the case is so important that for the very large turkish, greek and cypriot communities, the resolution of this case will indicate the efficiency of the european institutions in solving problems that are linked to the hopes of the people of europe. mr president, commissioner, i would like to ask for an answer and i hope that it will be satisfactory to the authors of the petition and, consequently, to the committee on petitions as a body of the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! as for the content, there's been a lot of talk about the status of famagusta. i want to emphasize three things. first of all, the people have a right to their property, they have a right to go back. secondly, the problem of famagusta is like schizophrenia or some cancer on the body of the european union. if we can't deal with that, i don't really believe we can deal with turkey ever being admitted to the union. and the last thing, mr president, you here, all the european institutions and all european democracy will one day be judged and accused of not having taken care of the cultural heritage in which we were all brought up. famagusta is a good symbol of that legacy and we can't let it destroy everything there, and it's just being destroyed. if we are dealing with an occupier, i think there must be a different strategy, because the current one is ineffective and we are to blame, including you.
member of the commission. mr president, many speakers have said that the division of cyprus is tragic. i fully agree. reunification should have happened yesterday at the latest. the european union consistently supports these efforts, and the eu has tried to take its own part, with the commission being actively involved in all these efforts. with the involvement of all the presidencies in these efforts in the last couple of years, the european union has invested an enormous amount of energy and effort in solving the cyprus dilemma. today, the finnish formula is likely to be the last chance for several years to unblock the current stalemate. therefore it should be taken extremely seriously. judging by last monday’s council meeting of foreign ministers of the european union, the eu member states are indeed supportive of the finnish efforts. so is the commission, with both the political ways and means and legal and other substantive expertise to facilitate solutions. to sum up, everybody should seize this opportunity and thus create a real win-win situation for everybody, including the varosha refugees.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: reports of continued arrests, humiliation and intimidation of opposition politicians and students in ethiopia are objectionable and should be strongly condemned. the recent arrest and expulsion of two european commission officials from ethiopia for allegedly trying to help yalemzewd bekele, a lawyer and women's rights advocate working for the european commission in addis ababa, only adds to the picture. nor can we forget that after mass arrests of opposition protesters during demonstrations in june and november 2005, 111 people remain in detention. i would like to call on the commission and the council to make every effort to initiate a comprehensive dialogue in ethiopia involving political parties, civil society organisations and the authorities, with a view to agreeing on a lasting solution to the current political crisis. we must do everything we can to restore as soon as possible the lasting principles of respect for human rights and the rule of law in this country. for this to happen, the ethiopian government must show the world that it has the will to solve the current crisis. such a gesture of goodwill would certainly be the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are well aware that freedom, independence, and the rule of law belong to all states and societies in the world. it is worth noting that we are talking today about a very special state, a state whose history is older than the history of many european states, or even most of them, which traces its roots back to the times of the old testament king david and the queen of sheba. a country that has embraced christianity, even before many european countries, or most of them, is a complete exception also on the african continent. because this country has maintained its sovereignty throughout its history, except for a brief episode when it was conquered by one of the european states in the 1930s, but even then it has retained its independence legally. its venerable and widely respected ruler, emperor haile selassie, even during this conquest, which was an attempt at colonial conquest, represented his state by living in exile and exile. this country fell victim to a communist conspiracy in the 1970s, a conspiracy between the kremlin and cuba, and since then this country has unfortunately not been able to return to normal life. i won't repeat what everyone here has said about the suffering that its citizens are enduring now, but it is really our duty to help this country and this society.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the european commission has unfortunately behaved like a porcelain elephant by inviting the ethiopian prime minister to the european development days, which began on the same day as the session of our parliament and will end tomorrow, and which are being hosted by the ethiopian prime minister. the ethiopian prime minister even spoke here. the european commission has decided that it prefers to ignore the signs of persecution emanating from ethiopia. the european union cannot pretend that we are dealing with a normal country. on the contrary, we are dealing with a state that is a political prison for many journalists, trade unionists, human rights defenders. we don't even know how big the prison is, because the ethiopian government is consistently refusing to say how many political prisoners are there, how many are being arrested. and another professional group has been arrested recently, namely teachers. it is clear that the attitude of the european commission and the council towards ethiopia must depend on how ethiopia respects human rights, and first and foremost, whether it releases political prisoners from prison or not. but to be clear, this is not just a european union issue, it is also an african union issue, which also needs to respond, and that is why i stress that this is really a matter for both unions.
the author. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. bangladesh is an important partner of the european union, a country which has made significant economic progress in recent years. its most famous citizen today, banker mohammad junus, for his fight against poverty through the micro-credit system, has been honored with this year's nobel peace prize. but bangladesh is not only struggling with poverty, but also with corruption and the growing aggression of islamists. the formation of a provisional government headed by president iajuddin ahmed was protested by the public. according to reports from outside observers and the awami league, the authorities illegally increased the voter rolls for the upcoming elections by 13 million names. the interim government should guarantee free elections in line with international standards, and the electoral commission must be guaranteed independence, and the list of eligible voters simply must be reliable. the basis for political stability in the country would undoubtedly be an agreement between the bangladesh nationalist party, the awami league and the other parties to build a common economic agenda necessary to improve the living conditions of the people of bangladesh and civil liberties. the interim government has an obligation under key international human rights conventions to combat abuses, extrajudicial killings and torture by police or security forces. meanwhile, the situation is as follows: 3 journalists have been murdered this year, almost 100 have been victims of intimidation or physical harm, and attacks on ngo workers are increasing every day. religious minorities, hindus and christians, are threatened, rape is rampant, and trafficking of women and children is widespread. we feel that the country's democratic achievements are being destroyed by the growing violence of islamic fundamentalists. the council and the european commission should monitor the situation of respect for human rights, freedom of expression and freedom of the press in bangladesh on an ongoing basis. hopefully, the planned eu election observation mission to bangladesh in january will help to ensure that the elections are democratic.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the ganges delta and brahmaputra are not hiding their admiration for the afghan taliban and also want to remake their state in the likeness of the afghan emirate of mullah omar, as we all know. to achieve their goals, holy warriors without scruples resort to violence. it is unfortunate that the initial warnings of the dynamic growth of these terrorist militias were downplayed by the bangladesh government. life quickly showed that they were not the product of the sick imagination of jealous opposition leaders or sensation-seeking journalists. many of them paid the ultimate price for the truth, many were forced to flee the country. in this situation, it is good that two people suspected of leading terrorists were arrested, but we should not stop there. when we take a close look at the situation in this country, which has long deviated from the european human rights standards we know, despite the drastic measures taken by the government to curb extremism against religious minorities, we still find blood-curdling situations that are the worst of horrors. there are many other problems there, and that is why i wholeheartedly support the commission's decision to send an observer mission and to appoint one on behalf of the european parliament.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: over the past year, despite several commitments by the iranian government to promote universal values, the situation in the country regarding the exercise of civil rights, political freedoms and human rights has deteriorated. we are hearing more and more reports of torture and ill-treatment of prisoners. the increasing number of reports of arrests and threats against journalists is of particular concern. at least 16 have been arrested since the beginning of the year, putting iran among the worst countries in the world for press freedom. it is also worrying that iran, despite the efforts of the european union, has not agreed to a new round of human rights dialogue, which was launched in 2002. it is time for the european union to start talking to iran about human rights in a tough and decisive way. iran will only become an equal partner for the european union and the world when it gives all people the opportunity to enjoy their civil rights and political freedoms.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the new academic year, which began at the end of september this year, dozens of students in iran were denied admission to higher education because of their political beliefs. others were told that they could start their studies if they signed some kind of loyalty letters to the existing regime. according to human rights watch, the iranian authorities have denied at least 17 students access to higher education, six in the 2005-2006 academic year and 11 as of september of this year. since july 2005, disciplinary boards have suspended at least 41 students for at least two semesters. human rights watch also has the names of 35 students who have been sentenced by courts since july 2005 for their political activities in student organizations. the restriction of the right to higher education on the basis of political beliefs and worldviews affects the best representatives of the iranian youth. it is not only an expression of the authoritarianism of this system, but it is also extremely damaging to the development of iranian society, it is against the iranian national interest. the european union should have a scholarship fund to enable young iranians, those who cannot study in iran for reasons of conscience, to continue their studies in higher education in the countries of the union. the establishment by the european union of radio and television stations broadcasting programmes in farsi with information on the culture, politics and society of the european union is also of particular importance.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. so here's another list of all the possible evils that we encounter most often when we're debating about various evil dictatorial regimes. of course, it's religious persecution, the persecution of christians. relatively recently, news reports reported the execution of a 14-year-old boy who said: "i am dying, not because i am a sinner, but because i am a christian". the death penalty applied in an incredibly easy way, and it's the death penalty applied in a cruel way, by stoning minors, persecuting other nations than the one whose representatives are in power. these are all things that we're still debating, but we're still not finding a cure for. you have to think about it. it says here that we must of course act in cooperation with the united states, because the united states is the power that is ready to intervene at a time when the european union will never intervene militarily, at least not until it has its own weapons. we need to work out a method. perhaps it would help to inform the populations of these countries on a mass scale that there are other opportunities for development than those that their regimes are applying to them.
mr. chairman, please! six months have passed since the last debate on the future of europe, organised by the european parliament; a future whose legal framework was originally to be the constitutional treaty; a future which is already being realised before our eyes, as in the meantime the decision has been taken to implement the next enlargement and the admission to the union of two new countries - bulgaria and romania - but also a future which has been suspended until the second half of 2008, when the period of reflection on the constitutional treaty has been extended once again. i think that this extra time for reflection should be used primarily to analyse the growing scepticism of europeans towards new enlargements of the union. the citizens of the european union must feel and understand that decisions on the admission of new members are taken with full responsibility and also take account of the budgetary capacity of the european union, i.e. they guarantee the smooth functioning of the union in the future. in implementing the strategic decisions already taken to become a competitive economy for other regions of the world, we must strengthen the role of education in shaping future, innovative generations of europeans. we need to promote a creative economy based on knowledge and imagination, which are the key to global success for the european entrepreneur. an educated and dynamic european union society is a prerequisite for the existence of the union as a political actor on the global stage, capable not only of solving its own problems but also of fighting effectively international crime and terrorism.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. all indications are that russia is not willing to accept the consequences of the 2004 enlargement it is suspending the signing of border treaties with latvia and estonia, it is resorting to gas blackmail, even against the eu member states, and recently it is pursuing a discriminatory trade policy against poland on the basis of falsified sanitary documents. poland cannot tolerate this discrimination, and more importantly, poland does not agree to start these talks on russian terms. i thank the commission for recognising these problems and looking for solutions. even the tension around the recent summit says a lot about more than just the eu-russia relationship. the way it is resolved will determine the state and future of the union itself. if russia succeeds in dividing us, the chances of building a political europe, of institutional change, especially in the area of common foreign policy, will be reduced. there is no point in building new institutions if they are not based on common convictions, if they lack common political substance. if russia can divide us today, next year they will take another step, and our common foreign policy will take another two steps backwards in that time. it is not surprising then that nato is taking the lead, for example in the area of the common energy policy. the north atlantic treaty organisation is already giving more and more concrete indications of its future role in this crucial issue.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the last eu-russia summit did not produce any concrete results. however, the meeting itself provided some important lessons for the future negotiations on the partnership and cooperation agreement. firstly, russia has traditionally used the tactic of breaking up the unity of the european union by presenting existing controversies as bilateral problems with the member states. this is the case with the ban on food imports from poland. latvia and other baltic countries have been affected by this. this tactic has proven effective as some eu bodies have joined the criticism of poland, using elements of russian rhetoric. secondly, the union, which is so sensitive to the problem of respect for human rights in its member states and in the world, including in the context of the fight against terrorism, sets a different standard for russia in this respect. eu decision-makers deliberately avoid asking embarrassing questions, and when asked such questions, such as about political killings or the situation in chechnya, they readily accept president putin's exchanged answers. it should be stressed that good political and economic cooperation between the union and russia is very desirable. the unjustified submission with which the union has treated russia so far does not lead to this. the requirement to ratify the european energy charter and a stronger stance on human rights violations should be considered priorities in relations with russia. it is equally important that the solidarity of the member states of the union is maintained in the face of a difficult partner.
mr. chairman, please! the russian federation is applying double standards to the member states of the european union, dividing them into good and bad states. good are rewarded with normal relations, and bad are punished with sanctions, such as trade restrictions. it's the policy of divide and rule that's been known for centuries. we have no influence on the intentions of the kremlin authorities, because there is a sanation of imperial thinking. they can afford it because of the rising oil and gas prices, the prices we pay. the most important thing is the reaction to this policy. if there is no united response, this imperial approach to interstate relations will only expand. i am not saying this to frighten russia, i am saying this to ensure that better relations between the european union and russia are based on sound, stable foundations, that they are free from divisions between winners and losers, between the good and the bad.
mr. chairman, please! the summit in finland didn't end the way it could have. but it is a lesson that should be learned by our honorable russian partners. the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity, and it is not only a political entity, but it is also a political entity. there is and must be an end to bilateral collusion between russia and germany, russia and france, russia and the united kingdom, instead of a meaningful dialogue with the whole union. but it's also a lesson for us, for the union. before such a summit, all matters which may constitute an obstacle to comprehensive agreements must be settled. this time, it was the russian embargo on polish meat. it's no wonder we poles have been so firm in our support of this cause. for us, it was a litmus test of russia's intentions towards poland, but also the intentions of the rest of the union towards my country. i would like to conclude by saying that i hope that european solidarity will never be an empty slogan.
mr. chairman, please! the european union needs solidarity in its relations with russia. moscow wants to divide the union into good and bad partners. the good guys are the big guys, the rich guys, the germans, the french, who putin says should be the ones to do european policy with. if the european union agrees to such treatment, it will mean the end of it and its vassalization. we must speak with one voice in our dealings with russia. the european commission should have intervened earlier on the polish food embargo. just as poland's objections to the construction of the northern gas pipeline should have been taken more seriously. russia is an important partner for the union. we must demand that russia respects freedom of speech, association, human rights and the free movement of opposition. it's not true that we poles are anti-russian. we value the culture of this country. we believe that the russians are an outstanding nation, that they have produced outstanding personalities in culture, in science, in music. this is a nation that has paid a terrible price for the madness of a bolshevik-communist utopia. and we will always support those who, like herzen, solzhenitsyn, sakharov, bukovsky, kowalev and politkovskaya, did not hesitate to speak out loudly about the need for a free, democratic russia, which ensures that its strength lies in building its country with concern for the fate of its own citizens, without imperial enslavement of its neighbours.
i would like to express my deep concern at the fact that the russian federation has maintained a ban on imports of goods of plant and animal origin from poland for 12 months and call on the european commission to take more decisive action to address the problem. i believe that in the light of the impasse in relations with moscow, it seems appropriate to settle this matter at the highest political level between the eu and russia. in the context of the problems in trade in agricultural products with russia, not only with poland but also with bulgaria and romania, and perhaps with the whole of the eu, i would like to point out that it seems appropriate to entrust the european commission with the responsibility of shaping the whole of trade policy, i.e. matters relating not only to imports but also to exports. the current rules for access to third country markets, which are different for each eu member state, result in unequal export conditions and discriminatory treatment of some member states. the division of import and export competence appears to be contrary to the principles of the single market and to the provisions of article 133 of the ec treaty, according to which the common commercial policy is based on uniform rules, inter alia, with regard to export policy. the current ec procedures also need to be improved so that any problems are dealt with quickly and in an emergency situation immediately.
russia is a very important neighbour of the european union, and the union is an important partner for russia. for this partnership to be genuine and healthy, russia must understand the essence of the union. the union should help to achieve this. the eu is founded on the principle of solidarity between its members. the policy of dividing the eu countries and russia's use of bilateral policy to put pressure on some member states is therefore unacceptable. in other words, polish meat is also european meat. the unjustified ban on polish meat exports to russia is a blow to the european union and is an eu problem, not a matter of bilateral relations between poland and russia. it turned out that the meat certificate fraud, which was the pretext for the embargo on polish meat, concerned meat produced in the usa and exported to russia through the territory of lithuania. so the embargo was a political move. i am glad that the finnish presidency is using the euphemism 'positive interdependence' in the context of energy cooperation between russia and the eu. the question is what this term really means and how russians interpret positivity and interdependence. in order to avoid any interpretative disputes, it would be best to include in the new eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement the key elements of the transit card and protocol, which would ensure the liberalisation of gas supplies from central asia through the territory of russia.
draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in january 2007, the european union will expand for the fifth time, this time by two more countries romania and bulgaria. we all welcome this fact with great satisfaction, and we are aware of the efforts and workload put in by both countries in their path towards membership. nevertheless, romania and bulgaria still need to continue reforms, especially in the fight against corruption, organised crime, drug trafficking and human trafficking. it is also necessary to strengthen the transparency of public administration actions and procedures and the absorption capacity in order to manage union structural and agricultural aid properly. in both countries, there are also concerns about poor living conditions in orphanages, institutions for the disabled and the lack of rights to protect ethnic minorities and guarantee their integration through access to education and employment. but with appreciation for the enormous work already done and its visible effects, let us welcome on 1 january 2007 the almost 31 million new citizens of the european union, so that they feel like the expected members of our common european family from the start.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the presence of romania and bulgaria in the european union since 1 january 2007 is our common success and hope for a great common europe with christian roots, which augurs rapid integration and the pleasure of being together again. we have taken these countries in, as we have taken other post-communist countries in the past, even though their economies are still far from the level of the rest of the union. but the european union, as its name suggests, is more than the former european economic community. it's just a pity we don't accept these countries on a basis that's common to all. we have free movement of capital, but we don't have free movement of labor. i fear that, once they have joined, this imbalance will contribute to the growth of euroscepticism in these countries, which is completely unnecessary. on behalf of the union for a europe of nations group, i warmly welcome romania and bulgaria to the union.
mr. chairman, please! bulgaria still has a long and difficult road ahead of it. fighting corruption, organised crime and human trafficking, strengthening the role of the ombudsman for civil rights, improving the situation in orphanages and institutions for the disabled, respecting the rights of national minorities and creating a better climate for foreign investment are just some of the areas where much remains to be done. however, we must not forget the enormous effort that has been made so far to adapt to the economic, legal and social requirements of the union, the positive changes that would not have been possible without the prospect of membership of the union, which is a powerful impetus for the difficult, sometimes unpopular reforms in the interest of both bulgarian society and the european community as a whole. i am convinced that bulgaria will not rest on its laurels after 1 january and will continue with renewed vigour its internal transformation, making full use of the historic opportunity offered by its membership of the european union. brothers bulgarians, welcome to the union!
mr. chairman, please! yesterday, giovanni claudio fava, a member of the european parliament, presented a draft report on alleged cia detention facilities in europe. in that report, poland is listed as the only european union country where secret cia detention facilities may have been located. this record is not supported by any evidence, only conjecture. it is a scandal because it is an attempt to discredit a new member state by accusing it of collaborating in the torture of terrorists. there is a suggestion that this is a punishment for some european union countries for the fact that poland has close military cooperation with the united states. it's an attempt to bring order to poland. i would like to emphasize that we are over-emphasizing these assumptions and not dealing sufficiently with the threat of terrorism in europe.
mr. chairman, please! like sweden, we in poland want a referendum to decide whether to abandon the national currency in favour of the euro. although the 1994 accession treaty, which sets out the swedish terms of accession, obliges the authorities in stockholm to replace the krona with the eu currency, a national referendum has been called in sweden on the subject. after the swedish referendum in 2003, which resulted in a victory for the pro-crown party, the idea of introducing the euro was dropped. the poles also have a right to speak out on such an important and vital issue for them. today, as many as 36% of my fellow citizens see the euro as a cause of future price rises and deterioration in living conditions, as a political experiment with dubious benefits. we do not want to put polish monetary policy in the hands of the european central bank, based in frankfurt.
mr. chairman, please! the russian embargo on some polish meat and vegetable products imposed a year ago was one of the reasons for poland's blocking of negotiations between the european union and russia on a new cooperation and partnership agreement, which was the subject of today's debate. poland used its veto to protect its interests. the veto was a test for european unity against russia and an expression of the strong spirit of european solidarity, a test given by the european union. the union has shown that it cares about the interests of individual member states. it is a pity that it was only after a year of the embargo that the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso, called on russia to lift the embargo, arguing that the import ban was unjustified. the polish veto blocked the negotiations on a new agreement with russia, which is very important for the whole european union. the current agreement, which is 10 years old, is not adequate to the problems we face today, and without a new agreement, the common trade and energy policy with russia, which the european union needs, is impossible. it is therefore to be hoped that in future the issues of unilateral blockades against members of the union by third countries will be resolved on an ongoing basis with the help of the european commission, without the need to interrupt key negotiations, such as those concerning the european union's common policy towards russia.
mr. chairman, please! poland's rejection of the eu's negotiating mandate for talks with russia is not an act against russia, let alone against the negotiation of a good eu-russia partnership agreement. our position was necessary, although we are aware that it is better to avoid such incidents. that's what we'd like to do in the future. but i would like the eu side - the commission, the council - to examine their conscience: what action have they taken in this matter? i myself have spoken on many occasions to at least three commissioners: trade, agriculture and food safety. i've asked questions in parliament and on the agriculture committee. i find that there has been a lack of cooperation between the relevant directorates-general and commissioners on this matter. the future of such situations depends not only on the position of the institutions of the european union but also on the support and unity of action of all the member states.
president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that, unfortunately, the minister for trade and industry, mr mauri pekkarinen, who is responsible for this framework programme, will not be able to attend this evening because of illness. that is why i have the pleasure and honour of representing the council in this debate myself. the presidency will not be represented at ministerial level at the press conference tomorrow because of this illness, but i am sure that will be dealt with. the seventh framework programme of the european community for research is the main community action to implement the lisbon strategy and to improve europe's competitiveness. community research and development activities play a key role in achieving this objective. the budget for the framework programme is over eur 50 billion for seven years. it is thus the largest framework programme ever, both in terms of budget and duration. the interinstitutional agreement on the community financial framework was adopted last may. as a result, we have been able to conclude the negotiations between parliament and the council successfully in a very short time. i hope that we will stick to our ambitious timetable and complete the legislative work on the framework programme by the end of the year. i would like to thank the european parliament for this compromise, in particular the rapporteurs mr buzek and mr busquin, mr chichester, chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, the shadow rapporteurs and many other representatives who have worked actively to find a common solution. i would also like to thank commissioner potočnik in particular for his constructive contribution to the negotiations. finland's presidency of the council has been able to build on the achievements of previous presidencies, especially austria's. the commission's proposal for a framework programme included a number of new ambitious initiatives, such as the european research council, the joint technology initiatives and the risk sharing facility. the negotiations were at times very difficult, particularly with regard to these initiatives. the result of the negotiations is the result of a lot of work, considerable flexibility and a genuine willingness to compromise on the part of parliament, the commission and the council. in this context, i would like to mention that the council, in its common position, adopted parliament's amendment on the principles for funding stem cell research in the framework programme. the commission's initiatives to find a compromise were decisive, and i would like to thank the commissioner for that. i think the result is an ambitious but balanced programme. it will provide an excellent basis for community research and development activities for the next seven years. one of the major objectives of the commission's proposal for rules on participation was to simplify participation. in this context, the active role of the parliament has further improved the opportunities for all researchers to participate fully in the framework programme. as president-in-office of the council, i am pleased to say that the amendments to the package are to be voted on on the basis of the outcome of the trilogue negotiations. i can confirm the council's approval of these amendments. on the other hand, i hope that the outcome of the negotiations on the other amendments will remain unchanged. i hope that parliament will adopt decisions on the seventh research framework programme and the rules for participation in its implementation at its sitting tomorrow. the common objective of all the institutions, the european parliament, the commission and the council, to launch the framework programme as soon as the beginning of next year, could thus be achieved. this is also what the european scientific community expects of us.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. tomorrow we are voting on the seventh framework programme. it was worked on by four presidencies, together with parliament and the commission, over a year and a half. each of them has made a significant contribution, but i would like to thank the finnish presidency in particular. thanks to the excellent cooperation we had with the council, and to the particular personal commitment of commissioner potočnik, for which i thank him, and to the technical assistance of the european commission, we reached a full compromise in october. thank you, commissioner, for your statement on stem cell research. this is very important for parliament. the itre committee voted the compromise amendments without any objection. i would like to highlight the great merit of the shadow rapporteurs in this respect, who have shown a tremendous responsibility and a spirit of cooperation. thank you, fellas. for me, it was an extraordinary time of work and collaboration. coordinators and political advisers monitored the work. i thank them, too. i also thank the eight parliamentary committees for their opinions. with the seventh framework programme, we are discussing today the specific programmes, the rules of participation. the work on these documents was coordinated in the european parliament by the administration of the committee on industry, research and energy, for which i am very grateful. turning to the programme itself, i would like to stress that it has always been welcomed in parliament. but we've made a number of improvements. we have introduced new partial solutions which are relevant to the programme and have been favourably assessed by the council and the european commission, as demonstrated by the compromise amendments. the structure and main objectives of the programme are an excellent response by the union to the recommendations contained in the kok and marimon reports and to the proposals of the european parliament contained in the locatelli report. the seventh framework programme will enable the lisbon objectives to be achieved in a number of ways. all of this will be based on the criterion of scientific excellence. there are also new, interesting proposals to mobilise european industry funding, joint technology initiatives. this is a strong step towards an innovative europe, as is the work of the european technology platforms. the european parliament also decided that research potential in all european regions should be unlocked in order to build a genuine european research area. as for the 'ideas' part, it defined the european research council. it is a new venture for basic and advanced research. the european parliament stressed that the council should be fully independent, its activities visible and transparent, and its administrative costs low. the key issue in the next section (people) is the scientists. unlocking the full potential of human resources, with particular support for young, emerging scientists and women scientists, will allow europe to take off and prevent a brain drain. the development of a european research infrastructure is very important. we have this in a section called "opportunities". small and medium-sized enterprises are also a priority. as in the sixth framework programme, we have guaranteed them a 15% participation in research projects, but we have also created additional, faster procedures and special programmes. they're geared towards small projects. innovation and new technologies have also been at the heart of our amendments to this part of the seventh framework programme. the legislative work is coming to an end, now we have to implement the program. the issues of simplification and flexibility of procedures are crucial. coordination between european and national programmes is also key. we must avoid at all costs the fragmentation of research in europe. i hope that the seventh framework programme will help to reawaken enthusiasm for the lisbon strategy and to overcome the well-known european paradox. finally, i would like to say to my colleagues in the european parliament that, taking into account the compromise amendments negotiated with the council, the text of the seventh framework programme fully reflects the priorities of the first reading. i therefore call for the full support of these amendments so that parliament can speak with one voice on research, development and innovation and on the future of the european union.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the seventh framework programme is the programme needed to make the european union a leader in the modern economy, with benefits for citizens' well-being, health and the environment. however, the economic and political situation as well as environmental protection require priorities to be identified, which should be given specific financial and organisational support. one of the priorities is to reduce the consumption of gas and oil, whose rising prices and difficult availability are having a negative impact on the economy and living standards. the development of biofuel production based on research and development has led to the introduction of biofuel engines in the us, restricted fuel imports and opened up unlimited markets for agricultural production, while increasing its profitability. the construction of modern nuclear power plants, which take into account the needs of the european energy system, as well as hydro and wind power plants and the use of solar energy, ensures economic stability while reducing the greenhouse effect and environmental pollution. the same effect is produced by gasification and liquefaction of coal.
the current situation with aids, like malaria and other diseases, is a challenge in areas such as education, prevention, research, care and treatment. primo, we need proper sexual health education, especially in poor countries. for example, the socially and economically conditioned promiscuity that i learned about in the dominican republic, in sugar cane farms, but also elsewhere, requires an improvement in economic conditions and a change in social values and norms that can lead to positive changes in sexual behavior and, consequently, to the subsequent non-use of morally controversial treatments on human fetuses. second, scientific research is expensive and often financially risky, but we have no choice but to look for vaccines and drugs to destroy viruses. in this case, international research teams should be supported. third, social care is necessary for those affected by the virus, especially their orphans, who become victims of non-sexual activity. fourth, today only a tiny percentage of the 40 million people living with hiv have access to medication and medical care. this is where we have the greatest potential, and with the right policies, we can get more people who have the virus to have access to the drugs.
on behalf of the uen group. on behalf of the uen group, i would like to thank ms lynne for a job well done. we are addressing a problem today that is at the level of our humanity. any discrimination against a disabled person is contrary to respect for human rights and dignity. the phrase 'a disabled person is a full citizen' cannot be a mere rhetorical slogan. it is fair to say that much has been done in this area in recent years. yet still, in too many situations, these people feel like second-class citizens. member states have a serious task to integrate the environment of people with disabilities into the rest of society. it's about removing all barriers, not just architectural and transportation barriers, but also access to jobs, health care, social care, education, culture, sports, and so on. the issue of disability among children and young people, both physical and mental, as well as congenital and acquired, is particularly relevant. i would also like to draw attention to the situation of people who are limited in their abilities because of old age. i am convinced that the action we will take in this area in parliament will help to improve the living conditions of the people. this is not a favor, it's our duty.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. the report on the situation of disabled people in the enlarged european union contains more expectations of improving the lives of disabled people than it does a description and analysis of their current situation. apart from the obvious issues of removing architectural and communication barriers, it is extremely important to take measures to support employers financially and compensate for the losses suffered by them as a result of the often lower productivity of disabled workers. a major opportunity and challenge for families with disabilities is the continuous support of the education of the disabled and their carers, including through schemes to ensure that parents stay at home for the necessary time and that they are able to receive decent financial benefits. in this case, the european union should be involved and provide appropriate means for these purposes. all guidelines for improving the situation of people with disabilities must be developed with a proper hierarchy of priorities so that our assistance and care is not just a political statement. disabled people need to be assured that the eu member states are supporting them, including through a stronger penal system, in relation to crimes committed against disabled people.
author of the draft opinion of the legal affairs committee. - madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur warmly and thank him for his contribution to this extremely important subject for the future of the european economy. unfortunately, we must note that the economic performance of the european community can often be considered disappointing, given the opportunities that lie within the european single market. the problems faced by small and medium-sized enterprises, which are one of the main drivers of the european economy, deserve particular attention. better regulation and simplification are essential to increase the coherence and clarity of community legislation and thus to reduce the administrative burden faced by small and medium-sized enterprises. further draft legislation should be based on a broad and common approach based on a detailed review of existing legislation and a thorough impact assessment. it is therefore necessary to maintain a regular dialogue with both small and medium-sized enterprises and the organisations representing them, in order to ensure their participation in the implementation of community programmes and their further development.
madam president! there are many factors that make the european union lose out not only to other highly industrialized countries but also to developing countries. we cannot list them all, but the most important are too little support for small and medium-sized enterprises and too little investment in science and education. but i would like to focus on another factor. this is a very profound difference in the development of the european union, both at national and regional level. to create a true european area of science and technology, we need to bridge the gap between the rich and poor members of the union. this obviously requires additional resources, and not just structural funds or agricultural funds, but also research and development, science and education. unfortunately, the rich nations have practically appropriated the funds for these purposes by arguing that they should be more effective in these areas. in this context, it should come as no surprise that the gap between the rich and poor regions of europe is widening rather than disappearing, and that the european union is developing at a much slower pace than the united states or the asian countries.
mr. chairman, please! turkey only seems to have taken an important step towards continuing negotiations with the european union on thursday. opening one port and one airport to greek cypriots for one year is a laughingstock and another proof of prime minister erdogan's arrogance towards europe. turkey acts as if europe is aspiring to it. turkey is the one that is asking to join the union. if he asks, it is probably because he considers our european civilization, based in large part on christianity, to be superior to his own, or at least desirable in a certain sense, and if so, it should meet our conditions, not his own. in this context, not only should the negotiations with turkey be partially suspended, but these accession negotiations should be stopped altogether.
mr. chairman, please! 25 years ago, on december 13, 1981, martial law was declared in poland, which led to the delegation of the trade union "solidarity". the state of war is primarily violence, repression and harassment against trade union activists, people of science and art, and all those who did not want to accept totalitarian slavery in poland. during the martial law in poland, general jaruzelski, human rights, civil and political rights were violated. over ten thousand were held in internment camps and prisons during this period. many have sacrificed their lives to defend solidarity. on december 16, nine miners were killed and 21 wounded by bullets as a result of the pacification of the "wujek" mine by zomo special forces. i wish to pay tribute today in the european parliament to all those who have died in defence of freedom and justice. to all the victims of the persecution of the martial law, as well as to all those who did not bow to violence and who, through their independent activity, contributed to the achievement of democracy and freedom in poland.
mr. chairman, please! a lot of what we talk about in this room is achieving the lisbon goals, competing with the european union against the world's largest economies, like the united states, china and india. but the debate is still not winning out, and the dreams of high growth may be fading away because there is no one to deliver it. a recent un report says that by 2050, europe will have 100 million fewer people than today. there are fewer children being born, europe's population is ageing, and fewer people are working to support more and more pensioners. the lisbon objectives must therefore be accompanied by an appropriate eu demographic policy, perhaps modelled on countries such as finland, france and latvia, which are currently experiencing a 'baby boom', resulting from the creation of appropriate incentives and facilities for parents who want to have children but also want to have something to support their family. they can thus balance their parental responsibilities with their secular work. economic growth in europe requires a workforce of the right size and quality. it is therefore essential to develop a community policy for the development of european society which takes account of both the demographic aspect and the immigration of skilled workers from outside the union.
mr. chairman, please! the 7th congress of the party of european socialists was held in porto from 7 to 9 december under the slogan 'a new social europe'. the congress addressed a number of issues of great importance for the future of europe and the european union. the provision of adequate and easily accessible childcare was identified as a priority to enable young parents to continue working. investing in our children's future is investing in our future. a number of documents were also adopted. the most important of these are the resolution setting out the ten principles for a new social europe, the resolution on the middle east, the resolution on belarus and the resolution on a new social democratic energy policy. this resolution seems to me to be timely and particularly important in view of europe's growing dependence on a small number of suppliers of energy resources. mr president, at this congress, the socialists have once again confirmed that they are the leading and most important political force in europe. a political force that is future-oriented.
mr. chairman, please! 25 years ago, on the night of december 12th to the 13th, martial law was declared in poland. tanks were pouring into the streets, violating the freedom of the nation, humiliating, beating and killing innocent poles. it was done by people in power, convinced that they knew better than the people what the people needed. they felt that the alliance was more important than the will of the people, or rather, the subjection of a foreign capital. it was really about maintaining power and the benefits that come with it. the foreigners who supported the wicked pursued their own imperial ambitions at the expense of the captive nation. may the anniversary of this event be an occasion for europe to examine its conscience. is it not the case that those who are wise among us know better what the nations need than the nations themselves? are not the alliances of rulers ever made against the good of their nations? is it not the pursuit of power and profit that is put before the good of the people that politicians are supposed to serve? let life, liberty and dignity of every human being be sacred to us.
mr. chairman, please! this is a british airways card. i was trying to do something about it when recently 100 members of the house of commons, the british house of commons, protested the fact that a british airways worker, a person who wore a cross, was being discriminated against. i believe that this kind of situation in our europe, which has been based on the christian heritage for centuries, is unacceptable. i now stand in solidarity with our colleagues in the uk, with the politicians and journalists of that country who are protesting against this.
mr. chairman, please! the situation in eastern europe, namely russia and ukraine, cannot escape our attention. i think we've been focusing a lot of our attention on the russian negotiations lately, but please don't forget what's going on in the ukraine. i would like to see a clear message come out of this house that we stand with ukraine, that we support its democratization process. in other words, we don't want the anti-democratic processes to develop, to be strengthened. we care about ukraine, which is our big neighbor, and that cannot be ignored. therefore, i believe that every signal from this institution, from members of other institutions to the government, and especially to the ukrainian society, is extremely important.
mr. chairman, please! next year we will be celebrating the 50th anniversary of the treaties of rome. it seems to be the right time to reflect and debate more deeply on the future of the european union. the basic questions to be answered by the integration process should be based on the basic principles underlying the idea of integration. what is europe heading for? what are the possibilities for further expansion? we should have a clear policy towards the balkan countries, ukraine, turkey, as well as georgia and moldova. the union should step up cooperation and support more strongly the transition in these countries. the key issue at this point is the internal reform of the union. strengthen the role of the european parliament and improve the decision-making system. in the next six months, under german leadership, we should also prepare solutions for the future of the constitutional treaty and energy security.
mr. chairman, please! the debate on reach has long been a source of great emotion and controversy, which has intensified not only because of the monstrous number of amendments submitted, which exceeded 5000, but especially since the reach regulation's true objectives have been revealed, namely the interests of large chemical companies with huge financial potential and scientific and research facilities, which have proved to be only a tool for the realization of even greater profits for globalist companies. behind the lofty slogans of health and the environment, big players are trying to eliminate small and medium-sized enterprises, especially from the new eu member states, which have been the engine of the european economy so far. we are also sceptical of compromises that only prolong the elimination of smaller businesses, and consequently deprive many people of jobs and development.
mr. chairman, please! this crucial vote on reach takes place in december, when we would like to see snow in much of europe and we are concerned about high temperatures. it is time for us to do more and more to protect the environment and human health. the hard-won compromise on reach is a big step in that direction. to achieve this, we had to make concessions and reconcile many conflicting interests. for example, the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises and large industry. the interests of poorer and richer countries. the interests of the environmentalists and the proponents of a more aggressive economy. it is worth noting that this debate and this important regulation are being adopted in the union enlarged by ten new countries.
mr. chairman, please! chronic malnutrition worldwide has been reduced by half since 1945, despite a significant increase in population. life expectancy has increased dramatically. we are more efficient in producing and using energy, and we are more environmentally friendly. this was due to the development of industry and science in the 19th and 20th centuries. so, in our search for solutions that are good for people and the environment, we should not support regulations that are too rigid and too expensive. by tightening up the rules on registration and authorisation, we will impose a heavy burden on industry and thereby reduce the costs of innovation. less innovation means more hazardous substances in our lives and in the lives of our children. that's the balance. it's not rigid, ecological prohibitions and injunctions, but the application of technological and scientific progress that guarantees a healthier and cleaner future. the greater availability of authorization, the assessment of socioeconomic factors in the authorization procedure, the greater flexibility of the procedure - these are the great advantages of the compromise of 30 november and that is why we are voting to maintain it.
mr. chairman, please! chemicals are part of our environment and are everywhere, but the rapid industrial development of the 20th century has made their use in everyday life less of a necessity and more of a convenience. however, many of these substances only seem to improve the quality of our lives. some of them are dangerous and harmful to our health. today, it is difficult to imagine our lives without chemicals. and that's why we need to demand more transparency and knowledge about the chemistry of products that serve people. in reach, we should be focusing on the precautionary principle. the new law states that the consumer should be the first to be assured that a product is safe and that the burden of proof should be on the industry. any manufacturer who intends to introduce a new product or maintain an existing licence will have to prove that the substances they produce are safe for humans and the environment. the negotiated compromise largely meets these expectations and therefore deserves support, although, as with all compromises, there are also objections. i am particularly concerned about the data-sharing provisions, which are significantly weakening the position of some 25 000 small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union. attempts to extend the patent life, initially to fifteen years and eventually to twelve, are anti-innovation because they increase the economic advantage of rich companies. the longer these periods are, the less companies are forced to look for new solutions, new research. in conclusion, despite its many advantages, mainly related to health, reach treats operators differently. but this compromise deserves support.
mr. chairman, please! one of the key provisions in the draft reach regulation is the substitution principle, which is left to industry. this principle can unlock the significant innovation potential of both the key chemical industry and the end-users of its products. however, some entries may be interpreted in a discretionary manner, for example among suitable safer alternatives. another problem may be the provision on the research and development plan of the company, which may be exempted from the need to develop those who do not have their own research centre. there is therefore a risk that some smes, if they have such centres, may opt out and thus not be required to submit such a plan. the question is also who should look for substitutes, the chemical industry or the end user, or together and therefore what should intellectual property law look like in relation to the existing - unfortunately not the best - patent law. a carefully formulated substitution principle is the most logical response to the use of toxic substances. there is a need for procedures in the regulation to encourage innovation in the search for new safe substances.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague guido sacconi. it's a big, hard, and very good job. i also congratulate the finnish presidency and i am glad that this year, under your presidency, we can conclude a long, very nervous eight-year cycle of work on the production of this regulation. the fact that nobody is 100% happy with it means that reach is acceptable. for the chemical industry, reach will be too green. environmentalists have accused the regulation of being written by industry. it means we've reached a compromise. the compromise that is possible at this moment, in the current social and political conditions. if we look at reach with a cool eye, we will conclude that (and i want to draw attention to just two points here) firstly, instead of 40 different regulations, we will have one single document that will allow us to protect human life and health well. secondly, this regulation is definitely better than what we have so far. if we keep improving it, keep improving it, i'm sure it's worth taking.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the community customs code is the text which has made a thorough modernisation of the existing customs code of 1992. modernisation is necessary because of the radical changes that have taken place in the sphere of international trade. the regulation therefore aims to simplify customs legislation and procedures both from the point of view of economic operators and the customs administration, in order to reduce the cost of customs clearance and to meet the commercial challenges in the areas of safety and security, anti-counterfeiting, money laundering, health and environmental protection. the new community customs code has not only simplified certain procedures but has also made fundamental changes to customs law in certain respects. this document is inseparably linked to the proposal for the computerisation of customs procedures. the decision of the parliament and of the council on the electronic environment for customs and trade envisages the establishment and use of secure, interoperable and accessible electronic customs systems, which should simplify and improve supply chain logistics and customs processes. the third proposal establishing a community customs action programme customs 2013 enhances cooperation between customs administrations and their staff. operates trans-european information networks which enable customs control obligations to be fulfilled in the internal market and taxation of goods and services to be maintained in accordance with national and community tax legislation within the internal market. the programme plays a significant role in the smooth functioning of the internal market and the management of the external borders of the european union, and contributes to the achievement of the commission's objectives for 2005-2009 and the lisbon strategy.
mr. chairman, please! the customs system of the european union should fulfil two main tasks. first, to protect the community's economic and financial interests; second, to facilitate legitimate trade and to speed up and simplify customs procedures. unfortunately, despite the existence of the customs 2007 programme and the allocation of nearly eur 150 million for this purpose, these tasks are not fully implemented. suffice it to mention the negative impact on the community market of large-scale smuggling of alcohol, tobacco products and, more recently, liquid fuels. not only is the scale of this smuggling disrupting the internal market, but hundreds of millions of euros in customs duties are not coming into the union budget. this is also the case for food products. it is on this market that products are very often offered at prices well below their cost of production, which is a clear indication of circumvention. this has recently been the case in the poultry market in poland and for the last two years it has been the case with frozen strawberries imported from china. thus, the second objective of the customs system, which is to facilitate trade, is not fulfilled. this is particularly evident on the eu's eastern border with russia, belarus and ukraine. long procedures, long queues, corruption discourage the export of goods from the eu. i would like to express the hope that the amount of eur 323 million for the implementation of the customs 2013 programme will allow for a significant improvement.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank members for a very interesting debate. i share with most of you the frustration we are facing that in the european union we still have so many preventable causes of injury, death and ill-health, and that there is so much more we could do about it. i think these contributions are a step in the right direction and contribute to this effort. i know that the european parliament has been consistently proactive on the subject of injury prevention, and today’s debate shows the interest in this issue. for us, and me personally, the main target, the centre of my policies is the human being – people – and this is reality. but, in this day and age we also have to admit that unfortunately not all decision-makers have that as their sole consideration. so when we are able to accompany those arguments with financial and economic arguments, we can achieve this purpose even better. without saying that these would be the priority or the main consideration, it does help. in addition to the human suffering, in addition to the pain, in addition to the social impact that injuries have, they also cause a serious problem for the economies of member states and therefore investment from that point of view is also required. regarding the commission’s position on the different amendments, the commission can fully accept a large number of amendments, for example, 5, 18, 21, and partially accept amendments 7, 11, 15, 16 and 17. the full list of the commission’s positions on each amendment is being made available to parliament and i trust that it will be included in the record of this sitting commission’s position on amendments by parliament: see annex.. we cannot accept the amendment that concerns the deletion of the financial mechanisms under the public health programme because we do not have any alternative, and on legal grounds we cannot accept an amendment that obtains support through the cohesion and structural funds. so, in the circumstances we will have to insist on maintaining the funding through the public health programme. the main target of this proposal is of course the issue of information, because without the right information we will not be able to set the policies, we will not be able to set the targets, we will not know whether we are achieving our targets. most member states need help, and this can be shown from the results, from the information we have, and based both on the treaty and the policies of complementing and supporting member states in their efforts and also in coordinating the policy of member states irrespective of policies, which is the reason for this proposal. it is true that there is information here and there, but we need to pull it all together so that we can learn from each other’s experiences and prove that this is a european union of solidarity, a european union of cooperation, where we can learn from each other’s experiences and help each other so that every single member state does not have to go through this learning process at the cost of lives, at a cost to the health of european citizens. that is the challenge before us, and i think we can make great use of this possibility of an exchange of best practices and information and close cooperation. that is the target of this proposal, and i would like once again to thank mrs sinnott and parliament for their support for our proposal.
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i would like to say that i am grateful for the work done by the members of the committees concerned with this commission proposal to amend decision 90/424/eec on expenditure in the veterinary field. this year, the commission allocated approximately eur 210 million to assist member states in running eradication and monitoring programmes to counter animal diseases. this programme is a key element in our food safety strategy. as we all know, animal diseases are unpredictable – the unexpected can and does happen. in 2005-2006 even though we saw outbreaks of avian flu, blue tongue and classical swine fever in some member states, none of them was a major outbreak and we managed to keep them under control and not allow them to cause extensive damage. the commission has embarked on a wide-ranging review of community animal health policy. an extensive evaluation has recently been completed and the results were presented at a conference held in brussels last month. i was pleased to note that several honourable members attended, and indeed chaired, sessions. one of the primary areas of interest for discussion today and one which generated considerable interest was the possible introduction of an insurance or cost-sharing element to help fund disease eradication costs. however, these are longer-term measures which still need considerable discussion with the various stakeholders before we can determine how best to proceed. there are, however, a number of key changes which we can make now, in order to improve efficiency in how the commission and the member states manage funding in this area. the proposal before us today aims to make such changes, while allowing the necessary time for other longer-term issues to be dealt with in the ongoing policy review. the proposal contains three main elements. first, we propose to introduce the possibility of multiannual programming for the disease eradication programmes, but with a simplified procedure which will make it easier both for the member states and also for the commission. second, we propose to strengthen the legal basis for the traces programme, but also for communication. it is interesting to note that we currently have a legal base for communication activities in animal welfare but not for animal health, and this is going to be corrected in the proposal. third, we propose to limit the list of disease eradication programmes eligible for funding to those that correspond to clear priorities, but with a procedure under which this list could be amended when necessary in response to developments. the proposed changes would make important advances in strengthening and prioritising our food safety strategy. the proposal makes a number of improvements which will also increase efficiency and reduce bureaucracy, both for the commission and the member states. i am grateful for parliament’s support.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my support, also as a veterinarian, for mrs figueiredo's report, particularly as regards the requirement that contagious animal diseases such as bovine leucosis and aujeszky's disease should be included in the list of diseases eligible for community co-financing. i would remind you that the eradication of these diseases is now of particular importance in many member states of the union, not least because of intra-community trade. one of the conditions for the admission of a pig herd to trade is that it comes from a region or country free of aujeszky's disease. the same applies to bovine animals which must come from herds officially free of enzootic bovine leukemia. many new member states do not have sufficient financial resources to fully eradicate these diseases due to budgetary constraints. the amendment proposed by the european commission to the list of diseases, to remove bovine leucosis and aujeszky's disease, could result in a significant reduction or even suspension of the control programmes being implemented. it is also a matter of priority that any future changes to the updating of the list of diseases should be subject to the consent of the european parliament and the council.
member of the commission. mr president, i welcome the interest shown by the members in the proposal to modify what we call the veterinary fund. i appreciate that the overall principles of the proposal have been accepted by parliament. the suggestions made are good ones but many of those are already being applied. the idea, for example, to allow emergency expenditure in a crisis is indeed essential, but the provision already exists in the decision under article 3. the commission funds actions to deal with those diseases on an emergency basis, normally at 50% co-financing of eligible measures and 60% for foot-and-mouth disease. the idea of ensuring coordination between member states submitting programmes is also welcome but this is also the case in reality. we will continue that approach but we feel that article 16 is not the proper location. we will introduce the idea somewhere else – the idea of task forces and sharing best practice. the eradication plans are publicly available on the commission’s website, but we would be very happy to provide information on progress to parliament and the council and we recommend these to the member states. the decision sets out the criteria that member states must fulfil when submitting eradication programmes to the commission for consideration. those are technical criteria. therefore the regulatory committee procedure is appropriate to define the information required. member states need to be very precise in the information they supply and it is therefore helpful for the commission to specify the format required. on the suggestion to delay the final date for submitting an application for funding, we encourage member states to submit applications as early in the year as possible. nevertheless, we can accept a final date of 30 april. with regard to the list of diseases eligible to receive funding, which was raised by many speakers, we have proposed shortening the list to focus efforts on the key priorities: those diseases that have indirect implications for human health and diseases that may lead to serious trade problems. the addition of diseases or wider possibilities to allow member states to submit any programme at all would risk dilution of those priorities. nevertheless many of the diseases and issues raised will be or are being covered differently, for example, through the emergency expenditure (article 3 of the decision). it covers those diseases that have the potential to cause very serious losses, such as classical swine fever, avian influenza or fmd, for example. there are, however, two diseases on the list today, for which member states currently receive funding: aujeszky’s disease and bovine leucosis. for those two cases i am prepared to examine ways in which funding can continue for a number of years. a full list of the commission’s position on each of the amendments will be provided to parliament. i trust that they will be included in the record of the sittingcommission’s position on amendments by parliament: see annex..
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12.30 p.m.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr jean-claude fruteau on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulations (eec) no 404/93, (ec) no 1782/2003 and (ec) no 247/2006 as regards the banana sector (com (2006) 0489 - c6-0339/2006 - 2006/0173 (cns)) (a6-0422/2006).
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the banana market reform concerns several so-called outermost regions of the european union. it is already decided, unlike the reform of the fruit and vegetable market. the latter covers several dozen fruit and vegetable species and is of incomparably greater social and economic importance for the union as a whole, and is still being delayed. the banana industry is responsible for some 300 000 jobs, and fruit and vegetable production in poland alone for some 2 million. the cost of solving the main problems in the fruit and vegetable market is only eur 80 million per year. at the same time, the eu budget would lose nothing, as €300 million a year is not used on this market. the annual cost of banana market reform, at 280 million, is much higher and solves fewer problems. i would remind you that since 1 may 2004 poland and nine other countries have been members of the european union and have the right to be treated on an equal footing with the other member states. the fact that they're not on picturesque islands is no argument. in this context, the only thing that comes to mind when we talk about the cap is embarrassment and shame. and i'm not the one who should be ashamed.
mr. chairman, please! the amendment of the common organisation of the market in bananas proposed by the european commission is in line with the philosophy of the 2003 reform of the common agricultural policy and with the commitments that the union has made in the negotiations at the world trade organisation level. however, it is worth analysing the impact of the reform on the level of banana production in the outermost regions of the union. there is a certain similarity between the banana reform and the forthcoming reform of the soft fruit market. the regional dimension of the banana sector is as important as the size of the soft fruit market. the scale of the threat to the stability of rural areas and the income levels of farmers and their families is similar. both crops are extremely labor intensive. furthermore, it must be noted that the soft fruit market is more exposed to the illicit activities of third countries than the banana market. in the case of soft fruit, we have only temporary safeguard and anti-dumping procedures. we have an effective single tariff system for bananas. since some of the support instruments proposed for the banana market would solve the problem of the soft fruit market, the european commission should consider implementing them on this market. in particular, the introduction of an area payment scheme for soft fruit for processing. hopefully, the proposed regulations will have a positive impact on the situation of banana growers. we do, however, expect to see the real costs of this reform.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to make a few comments about the questions raised here tonight. as i have already explained in my introductory speech, a report on the implementation of the posei programmes will be presented not later than 2009 and will permit the assessment of the situation in the banana-producing regions. if there are substantial changes in the economic conditions affecting livelihoods in the outermost regions the commission may submit this report earlier. a question was raised about the situation of the producer organisations. it is important for me to underline clearly that producer organisations have not been abolished. simply, there is no longer a need for a common definition of producer organisations at community level. the vast majority of community producers are already members of producer organisations. it is therefore more appropriate to let member states decide whether they wish to adopt rules on producer organisations, which will enable them to target regional needs much more specifically and provide support under the posei programme. this is possible. regional authorities will be left to make their own choices. this flexibility built into the system would be the best way to secure sustainable and coherent policy decisions in the outermost regions. there were some questions about advance payments. it is important that we do not forget that the new system offers a number of tangible benefits to the banana-producing farmers. firstly, as soon as the posei programmes are approved they will have budget clarity for the full period of 2007-2013. this will improve their position if they need to go to the bank about loans. they could also obtain 100% clarity concerning the aid already paid on 1 december. under the present system, they have clarity concerning only between 20% and 40% of the payments. it is my clear impression that the member states appreciate these changes. in general, i can say with some confidence that our proposal on the budget will be very good for the banana-producing countries. if we had chosen other reference periods the result would have been worse than choosing the period 2000-2002. therefore, i am happy that the european parliament has decided not to reopen this discussion. there were a few comments on the fruit and vegetable sector. i am very happy to be able to say today that on 24 january i will be coming to the committee on agriculture to give an explanation on the new fruit and vegetable reforms. this will clarify some of the questions that have been raised here tonight. on the various proposals, the commission supports the incorporation of amendment 4, regarding the contribution of bananas to the social and economic cohesion, and amendment 9, which mentions the importance of various quality standards and the link to tourism, although we might need to revise the wording slightly. concerning the amendments asking to link the posei report to the banana sector and allow for a partial decoupling in non-outermost regions, the commission’s view is that this would clearly go against the whole idea behind the reform and also the linkage to the 2003 cap reform. i wish to thank you once again for all your efforts to speed up the discussion of the banana reform. i am delighted that parliament seems to agree with the basis of this whole reform and i am looking forward to the vote in plenary tomorrow.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the next item is the report by mr friedrich-wilhelm graefe zu baringdorf, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council correcting directive 2002/2/ec amending council directive 79/373/eec on the marketing of compound feedingstuffs (com ((2006) 0340 - c6-0209/2006- 2006/0117 (cod)) (a6-0411/2006).
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank members for this interesting debate. i shall now continue in greek. κύριε πρόεδρε, αυτό που θα ήθελα να υπενθυμίσω σήμερα είναι ότι καλούμαστε να αποφασίσουμε ή να συμφωνήσουμε σε μια πρόταση για απόφαση που διορθώνει την οδηγία έχοντας ως βάση την απόφαση του ευρωπαϊκού δικαστηρίου. και εδώ, νομίζω, συμφωνούμε ότι, ασχέτως των απόψεων που μπορεί να έχει ο καθένας, αυτή η στιγμή δεν είναι κατάλληλη για να συζητήσουμε την πλήρη αναθεώρηση της νομοθεσίας. αυτό, όπως σας έχω διαβεβαιώσει και προηγουμένως, θα γίνει μέσα στον επόμενο χρόνο· ευελπιστώ, πριν το τέλος του επόμενου χρόνου. βεβαίως είναι ενδιαφέρον - πιστεύω, και για εσάς - ότι στο μεταξύ θα εκδώσουμε έκθεση σχετικά με την εφαρμογή της οδηγίας 2000/2, δηλαδή το πώς έχει εφαρμοστεί αυτή η οδηγία από τα κράτη μέλη, πράγμα που νομίζω ότι θα βοηθήσει και εσάς και εμάς στην περαιτέρω συζήτηση για την πλήρη αναθεώρηση της νομοθεσίας. βεβαίως, η σημερινή συζήτηση δείχνει το υψηλό επίπεδο ενδιαφέροντος για τη βελτίωση της νομοθεσίας - και πάντα υπάρχουν περιθώρια βελτίωσης - και, βεβαίως, τη δέσμευση του κοινοβουλίου να ακολουθηθούν οι καθιερωμένες διαδικασίες. είμαι βέβαιος ότι το κοινοβούλιο θα ακολουθήσει την πρότασή μας, διορθώνοντας σε αυτή τη φάση την οδηγία για τη σήμανση των ζωοτροφών με βάση την απόφαση του δικαστηρίου. σχετικά με τις τροπολογίες, θα κυκλοφορήσουμε πλήρη κατάλογο με τις θέσεις επιτροπής για καθεμιά από τις τροπολογίες και ελπίζω ότι αυτός ο κατάλογος θα συμπεριληφθεί στα πρακτικά της παρούσας συνόδου. βλ. παράρτημα "θέση της επιτροπής" επιτρέψτε μου να αναφερθώ σε ένα-δυο ακόμη θέματα: η οδηγία 2002/2 έχει ως νομική της βάση την προστασία της δημόσιας υγείας, πράγμα που συμβάλλει, βεβαίως, σημαντικά στην ασφάλεια των ζωοτροφών. τούτο έχει επιβεβαιωθεί από την απόφαση του δικαστηρίου, γι' αυτό δεν μπορεί η επιτροπή να δεχθεί την τροπολογία αριθ. 1, που θα μπορούσε να υποσκάψει σοβαρά αυτή την αρχή. το νέο άρθρο που προτείνεται με την τροπολογία αριθ. 4 σχετικά με την κοινοποίηση των ακριβών ποσοστών σε περίπτωση μεγάλων κρίσεων περιλαμβάνει κάτι το οποίο έχει ήδη ενσωματωθεί στην οδηγία με σαφέστερο τρόπο. σε τέτοιες περιπτώσεις θα δίνονται τα ακριβή ποσοστά, γι' αυτό δεν πιστεύουμε ότι χρειάζεται να υιοθετηθεί η ρύθμιση που επικαλύπτει ήδη αυτή την πρόνοια, ως εκ τούτου η επιτροπή δεν μπορεί να δεχθεί την τροπολογία 4. θέλω να διαβεβαιώσω ξανά ότι η επιτροπή στο πρόγραμμά της για απλούστευση και βελτίωση της νομοθεσίας έχει συμπεριλάβει και αυτή την πρόταση, δηλαδή στην πρότασή της έχει συμπεριλάβει και αυτή τη νομοθεσία για την σήμανση των ζωοτροφών. πιστεύω ότι όλη η συζήτηση που έχει προηγηθεί αυτής της διορθωτικής απόφασης θα ληφθεί υπόψη στην διαμόρφωση της νέας μας πρότασης αλλά θα έχουμε, βεβαίως, την ευκαιρία να συζητήσουμε, επανειλημμένως, σε εύθετο χρόνο σχετικά με τη μελλοντική μας πρόταση όσον αφορά τη νομοθεσία για την επισήμανση των ζωοτροφών, προσπαθώντας πάντα - δεν είναι εύκολο, το παραδέχομαι - να συνδυάσουμε την προστασία των καταναλωτών, τις καλύτερες υπηρεσίες προς τους καταναλωτές με τη μείωση της επιβάρυνσης που θα υφίστανται άλλοι εμπλεκόμενοι φορείς. αυτός είναι ο στόχος μας και πιστεύουμε ότι μέσω της συνεργασίας μας θα μπορέσουμε να τον επιτύχουμε.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12.30 p.m.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. our privileged part of the world, living in abundance, has a great obligation to those who suffer from hunger and lack prospects for development. the help we give these people will not solve all the problems, of course, they have deeper, systemic roots, but it will help to cure the crises. i think we're unanimous in our recognition of our humanitarian obligations, and that gives us tremendous strength. so with even more reluctance, i've agreed to the introduction of so-called reproductive and sexual rights legislation, which implies our political and financial support for abortion. this was not in the original commission proposal, it was only in this parliament. this is a very bad signal for those europeans who do not accept abortion morally and do not want to pay for such actions, which are covered by the technical term "reproductive rights" it is ultimately a weakening of the common front against poverty, and it is also a weakening of european integration. is that what we really want? is it right to ignore the consciences of many christians just because they are a minority today? we are making it clear to them today that europe is no longer their project either, and i ask you to support amendments nos 1, 2 and 3 - otherwise i cannot vote for this report.
mr. chairman, please! the idea of the european union helping nations and countries in need is a good one. however, the inclusion of political considerations as a condition for granting such aid in cooperation policies is questionable. i understand the justification for refraining from giving aid to countries that violate human rights or commit various crimes. however, using cooperation policies as a tool to impose on countries in need the solutions applied in the union as a condition for granting aid is putting undue pressure on these nations and contradicts the idea of solidarity. we will do more to promote democratic processes if we prove in our own backyard that by protecting civil rights and freedoms we can ensure respect for and the development of those values which have always been the identity of europe. by turning cooperation policies into weapons, for example, for militant feminism, which is very controversial in europe itself, we weaken our prestige and our power of influence in other parts of the world.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the directive on the protection of groundwater against pollution and deterioration is the document we need. it will have a positive impact on access to drinking water and water for agricultural and industrial use, which is lacking in many regions of the union. the water issue in these regions is an economic and humanitarian issue. because of its scarcity and degradation, it is often transported to farms from several to several dozen kilometres away from where people live and work. this directive does not restrict the implementation of national policies taking into account the conditions in each country. it's a compromise document between wish and reality. it shall be an acceptable document in the agreed format. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs chriście klaβ, for her contribution. the uen group will support the jointly agreed text of the directive.
in writing. our part of the world having the privilege to live in wealth has a great responsibility to those who suffer hunger and whose future is uncertain. i believe we can speak with one voice according to our humanitarian responsibility. united in this noble cause we can change a lot. that is why i am against paragraphs introducing so-called ‘reproductive and sexual rights’ which are simply trying to win our support for abortion. this subject was not in the original commission proposal. it appeared in parliament. it is very unfortunate message for those europeans who do not agree with abortion and do not want to pay for such practices, hidden in this document under the technical term ‘reproductive right’. do we really want this message to be sent? we cannot disrespect catholics’ beliefs only because they are in minority today. our message to them is clear: it says that europe is not their responsibility any more! in conclusion it weakens our fight against poverty and weakens european integration. therefore i called for support for amendments 1, 2 and 3. i could not vote in favour of this report without them.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. in an era of rapid technological development on a global scale and the changes that this brings, it is necessary to ensure that they work for the cultural and economic development of europe as a whole and of individual nations. i therefore welcome the report by mrs hieronymi, which is based on the principle of country of origin. the adaptation of rules and conditions at country level will make it possible to promote national works, including independent works, more efficiently and more attractively for the public, by means of differentiated linear and non-linear services. i would also like to express my support and appreciation for the rapporteur's proposals on the protection of minors, the prevention of racial hatred, crypto-advertising and the distinction between sponsorship and product placement in the document. i welcome the rejection of the proposal to reduce the time between ad units in a film to 30 minutes, as this protects against the violation of proportions and the loss of the artistic value of the film. the hieronymi report is a good document, which is the basis for further work to regulate linear and non-linear services.
member of the commission. mr president, i am well aware that time is running out, and i shall not read to you now the very long list of amendments which the commission is prepared to accept and those which it must reject. i won't be able to argue either, unfortunately. i will submit this list to you and to the political groups. however, let me say that the 'television without frontiers' regulation, which has been in force for many years, has proved its worth, developing the television sector in europe and giving european content a real chance. we are facing a fundamental change in technology today, so we must adapt the directive to the modern world, with new definitions, flexible enough to stand the test of time and the evolution of technology. the vast majority of parliament is in favour of this. this is the way to quality television, where regulated advertising is used to finance european programmes and where media services can take advantage of the principle of country of origin and therefore of the single market: both must respect the basic values of the protection of minors and the prohibition of incitement to racial hatred, while supporting the production of european works. if, in a few sentences, we can sum up in this way what parliament is going to vote on, it is an imperfect summary, to be sure, but at least we have tried. the whole complexity of the undertaking is illustrated by the multitude of amendments tabled. let me say that, of the amendments to the report by the committee on culture and education - again, a big thank you for the exemplary work done by its rapporteur, mrs hieronymi - the commission can accept 44 and can accept 59 in part: in other words, two thirds of the amendments contained in the hieronymi report. that is to say, the quality of the positive work done by parliament should be commended. as regards the amendments tabled in plenary, the commission can accept 8 in full and 24 in part: mr president, as time is short, the list will be handed over to you. let me conclude by thanking the members, the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteurs, who have really done a precise job, very complicated but in the interests of our european television and media. the european content, which will have a chance thanks to you, owes you a big thank you!
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the european union's annual report on human rights.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. one of the main areas of european union action in the coming year should be to continue to support the fight for democracy in belarus. helping students who are being oppressed, funding independent educational institutions, and radio broadcasts are all good initiatives, but more can be done. about 20 percent of belarusians watch euronews, and 40 percent have access to the internet. these are the roads we must take. a dedicated website should be set up for them, as well as regular euronews broadcasts, if possible in belarusian. i would like the commission to consider this proposal in the context of the european financial instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights in the world, which was adopted today. continuing to put pressure on the lukashenka regime by all possible means is necessary and i strongly believe that it will lead to the fact that one day not the leader of the belarusian opposition but the president of a democratic country will be accepted in the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! i say this in the european parliament on the 25th anniversary of the introduction of martial law in my country, poland, which has led to violence, arrests and internment of thousands of people. i spoke about this yesterday in the european parliament, and i am also saying these words, by a strange coincidence, a few days after the death of general augusto pinochet, one of the most cruel dictators in the world in the second half of the 20th century. the european union's annual report on human rights is one of the eu's most important documents. the european parliament plays a key role in shaping human rights policy in the european union. in future, i believe that the work on this report should be more closely coordinated with the work of the european parliament in this area. i am thinking in particular of coordinating the work on this report with the work of the subcommittee on human rights in the committee on foreign affairs of the european parliament. i would like to draw your attention to the following issues: the coordination of the human rights policy of the member states of the european union with all the european institutions. these issues should be better coordinated so as not to lead to duplication of human rights policy at european level and human rights policy in the respective countries. the human rights situation in the european union should be monitored externally on an ongoing basis so that consequences can be drawn against countries that violate these rights. the synchronisation of human rights policy should be coordinated with all the financial instruments provided for in the budget of the european union. a human rights clause should be included in all agreements signed by the european union with other countries. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the european parliament's delegations in countries where democracy is being violated. i would particularly like to stress the importance of the european parliament's mission to cuba at this crucial time for the country.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is doing a lot to promote human rights in the world, and we are all proud of that. but it seems that sometimes we forget the rights of the citizens of the union itself. i mean the right to religious belief or the right to self-determination. man is partly a religious being and respect for his rights also refers to respect for his religiosity. some of us are more religiously sensitive than others. sometimes i think that atheism is more respected in our country than religion. the second issue is the right to freely decide your own destiny. here i get the impression that most europeans do not want turkey in the union, and yet negotiations are being held with it. i think that what is at stake here is, if not religious, then the cultural identity of the citizens of the union.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. speaking in the debate on the 2007 budget on behalf of the uen group, i would like to recall that this budget is a very important financial plan for the european union for at least two reasons. firstly, it is the first budget of the financial perspective for 2007-13, which the new member states have high hopes for. secondly, it is the first budget of the newly enlarged european union - the union of 27 member states. for these two reasons alone, the proposed level of expenditure in the budget should be as high as possible. the european parliament rose to the challenge and proposed payments of 122 billion euros, or 1.04 of the european union's gross national product. unfortunately, despite lengthy negotiations with the commission and the council, the latter agreed to pay only 115.5 billion, or 0.99 of the european union's gross national product. this has fulfilled the wish of the richest countries in the union, the so-called 'one per cent club', that budgetary payments should not exceed 1% of the european union's gross national product. fortunately, the inevitable financial cuts resulting from the council's cutting of expenditure have only affected the new member states to a limited extent. i would also like to express the hope that the solution proposed by parliament, namely the transfer of 30% of the amounts for a number of budget lines, totalling some eur 400 million, will make a significant contribution to the rationalization of budgetary expenditure. the european parliament's agreement to reinstate funding for the common foreign and security policy at a level of nearly eur 160 million should also mean that the council and the commission will take parliament's suggestions on the direction and methods of foreign policy more seriously than before.
mr. chairman, please! last year, when we closed the annual procedure, we were uncertain about the future of the long-term financial perspective. there is some uncertainty this year about whether all the elements of our agreement with the council will be respected. i am of course referring to the financial regulation and i am making it clear on behalf of the committee on budgets, in the presence of the minister, that we must have a guarantee and that is a condition for the budget to be signed this thursday. in 2007, we have a new generation of multiannual programmes in europe for 27 countries, and this budget has several distinctive features. first, the importance we attach to the financial regulation, which is to be more user-friendly and at the same time more transparent. second, using the increasingly rich sources of information on the use of individual budget lines to better program them in the future is what james ellis calls 'value for money'. third, careful spending planning for the coming year, given the potential for slippage. fourthly, to seek greater democratic control over expenditure on the common foreign and security policy, while respecting the specific nature of the field. fifth, to settle the dispute over employment in the commission. after hearing additional information, we're releasing the payroll reserve at the commission, not giving up on the personnel review. we expect this to open up recruitment opportunities, especially from the new member states. these are the main points of the 2007 strategy. in the hope that this procedure will be successfully concluded, that is to say that the uncertainties surrounding the financial regulation will be removed, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the political group coordinators, the secretariat, mrs dalia grybauskaite for her cooperation with the commission, which we believe was better this year than last, and mr wideroos. some understandable tension will be compensated for by a successful conclusion to this procedure on thursday.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the idea of establishing an institute for equality between women and men, identified as one of the community's key objectives, was born in 2000 when it was noted that in most policy areas there were significant gender inequalities. it is presented as a multidimensional phenomenon, which is probably true to some extent, although the fundamental question is whether this is really about equality, equality and human dignity, or rather the creation of a new leftist ideology. the role of the institute is to, among other things, eliminate gender stereotypes by disseminating information about non-stereotypical roles of women and men along with giving liberal examples to follow, which has been done for a long time and which at least people who profess a christian worldview cannot agree with. far from being moral, the programs of modern times, playing on man's weaknesses, only make him a weaker and more defenseless slave, especially of the impulses: sexual and exploitative. man, degraded to instincts, deprived of the supernatural dimension, with a retarded and impossible personal development without supernatural life, will not realize himself fully, even with the active help and thanks to the lofty goals of various institutes. moreover, the legal provisions of the regulation raise a number of doubts, since the institute is supposed to have maximum independence in the performance of its activities and even contracts an external evaluation of its own performance. this lack of control by the european parliament's committee and the choice of the evaluator is not only questionable but tragicomic. and what's also surprising is the income of the institute, which includes not only our tax dollars, but also the various wealthy organizations that we've helped, along with the payments we've received for services rendered. the second privilege is immunity, which means that the employees of the institute will also be unrestricted in their activities, propagating feminist ideas that lack truth, where instead of the cooperation of women and men, a destructive struggle for all the sexes appears, becoming a new dogma, and the sexes a new proletariat. we will vote against the ordinance.
mr. chairman, please! the idea of creating the institute for gender equality was born in 1995. four years later, the swedish ministry for gender equality submitted a preliminary draft of the institute, and after several years of research into its aims and organisation, the european commission and the european parliament recommended its creation. at the first reading in march this year, parliament supported the creation of this new agency by proposing a number of amendments to define its scope and to ensure that it is more effective. it is gratifying that the council, the commission and the parliament have expressed the common will to establish the institute and to enable it to start its activities in 2007. the only remaining issues to be worked out at second reading are the composition of the institute's management board, the appointment of its director and the still controversial issue of the expert forum. it is a pity that the council's position differs from that of both the commission and parliament. the end result is satisfactory, however. given the important role of the agency in the european union, where gender discrimination is still clearly present in some countries and in many areas of life, the institute will have the task of applying a uniform system for collecting and analysing information on equal treatment of women and men in europe. it is good news that the institute will be based in the new member state, the lithuanian capital of vilnius, and i hope that it will start its activities, which have been awaited for eleven years, as soon as possible. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the excellent document they have produced.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the committee on transport and tourism welcomed the commission's initiative on the proposed regulation. she also submitted her amendments. the rapporteur, mr groote, has made these proposals, which i welcome. we have considered the following aspects. first, the positive effects of the proposed regulation on the environment are clear. the second aspect is the cost of introducing new standards. they seem to be reasonable and will not significantly affect the prices of new cars. therefore, this should not hamper the purchase of new vehicles and prolong the life of older vehicles. finally, european union manufacturers will be able to meet the new requirements and, in the case of imported vehicles, we will force foreign manufacturers to meet our expectations. so this is a positive sum that i want to emphasize. liberalization of the production and trade of spare parts was also considered with regard to the three interested parties. first, the big car manufacturers, who have reservations. from the point of view of the spare parts manufacturers and repairers, these partner groups welcome the proposed regulation. expected effects - there may be a reduction in the cost of repairing and replacing spare parts in vehicles, i.e. some benefit to users. this can more than offset any increase in the cost of new vehicles with benefits.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. reading both reports, i was pleasantly surprised by only one thing. the completely black picture of the prospect of enlargement of the european union, which was present in elmar brok's original draft, has been replaced by a grey one. it's a relief to appreciate. the rapporteur's speech today has provided a further clarification, but this picture is still far from the truth. contrary to the impression one might get from reading both reports, it is not institutional reforms that have made the union a stronger player on the world stage. the european union has gained political weight because it now represents more citizens, more businesses, more territory and greater military and economic vitality. so it was the enlargements of the 1980s, 1990s and most recently in 2004 that gave the european union the strength to be a global player. it wasn't miraculous treaty reforms that were behind this. i see a loosening of the language in relation to the march 2006 resolution on the same issue, but to continue to maintain that only the constitutional treaty is a condition for enlargement is simply anachronistic. we can expect institutional change, but invoking the treaty as such can only be done in one way - it is an alibi for stopping the enlargement process for any reason. philosophy - the constitutional treaty or death - is neither good nor wise. a similar pretext is the academic consideration of absorptive capacity or integrative capacity. european integration is not a chemical or physical phenomenon, nor does it follow objective laws of nature. integration is a matter of pure political will, which is in the hands of ourselves and our colleagues in the member states. if we sincerely agree that enlargement is a success, then the question arises why we then put in 30 points whose philosophy is not far from narrow, cowardly euroscepticism. are we really sure that the quality of integration suffers from enlargement? or is the quality of integration also being degraded by bad policies of the union itself? is it not possible that this quality suffers because of the overloaded agenda we are placing on the union, the over-diverse and over-expected expectations? if we reject what i am criticizing here, we are left with the rather banal truth that candidate countries must meet the membership criteria. i doubt that we need to write two reports just to remind ourselves of a longstanding and rather obvious principle of the treaty. these are the reasons why i am not willing to vote for these projects, because they seem to be a list of excuses to freeze the integration process on the pretext of mere appearance.
mr. chairman, please! both reports are intended to be two guidelines for the european union, but guidelines for the 21st century are not enough. now we also need light signals, and in this case, metaphorically speaking, we need two lights, not three. we should have a green and an orange light, but no red, and that means that we should not pre-emptively exclude any country as a potential member of the union. it is wrong to give any nation a red light on the way to the european community, but european road traffic would be thrown into chaos if the green light were constantly on. i would remind you of the debate on turkey's accession two years ago, when the leaders of the green group, including mr voggenhuber, spoke of the 2014 date as a potential date for ankara's accession to the union. today we know that it was political surrealism. we must be clear that, apart from the rapid accession of croatia and macedonia, european countries such as montenegro, serbia, bosnia and herzegovina and albania should be admitted before turkey. it is necessary to say clearly - and i say this on the day when the periodic meeting of the members of the parliament of montenegro and the euro-parliament will be held in our parliament - that the bigger the union, the stronger it is. finally, the union grew very large, not by having a constitution, but by expanding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr. chairman, please! the world is changing, and we're always talking about expansion instead of inventing something new. i agree that enlargement is one of the union's most important policies for ensuring peace and security in the region. it is also true that the enlargements so far have been a success. but one day, success can turn into failure. in physics, only the universe expands to infinity. other systems that keep on expanding, one day they break. instead of talking about enlargement in a rigid, archaic and incoherent way, we should develop and offer our neighbours instruments of action such as cooperation, neighbourhood and association. in addition to the criteria to be met by the candidate countries, which were set out in copenhagen in 1993, there is another criterion to be met: the cultural criterion. let our citizens decide themselves, through a referendum, whether they want turkey as a member state or just an associate. if we want to expand further, it is probably only to include in the future those countries which have always been and are european, such as serbia, ukraine and belarus.
mr. chairman, please! in debating the strategy for enlarging the european union, the question of a common vision of europe should be asked. the current push for the constitution in its absolute political dimension is a clear indication of the intention to build a supranational political body in which the largest european states will have the majority of decision-making power. the enlargement of the union is mainly considered in this context. economic issues are being pushed into the background. the union wants to admit as many countries as the largest european countries are able to dominate. therefore, the question of whether to include turkey or ukraine - due to the demographic potential - is unacceptable for decision-makers in the coming years. i would like to stress that the union can only survive if economic issues prevail over political issues and the ambitions of rebuilding a new roman empire of the 21st century with the dominance of three or four states.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my appreciation for the work done by my colleagues elmar brok and alexander stubb in preparing their reports. both texts present a comprehensive and competent approach to one of the most important issues facing the european union, namely its further enlargement. as a citizen of a country that joined the european community two and a half years ago, i can appreciate the benefits of membership both for the polish economy and for the lives of millions of poles. i am also convinced that the recent enlargement was not only for the benefit of the new members. the whole union has benefited from it, both in economic terms and in terms of security and stability. this has been the case with every previous enlargement of the european community. it was used by both the acceding countries and the former member states. the european union is a success story because it has never been confined to an elite group of founders, but has managed to expand wisely, becoming a major player on an increasingly globalised stage. i have no doubt that the union will be further enlarged. the balkan countries and the eastern neighbours of the union will one day be part of it, and that will be beneficial for our community. i do not question the need for institutional reforms before the next enlargement. i am afraid, however, that if this process is made to depend entirely on the adoption of all the solutions contained in the constitutional treaty, which was rejected in the french and dutch referendums, it may give the unwelcome impression that the union no longer wants new members. it would be a very bad signal to the societies of the countries which have declared their willingness to participate in our community. we should not, and i believe we do not want to, close ourselves off to the current group of 27 countries, and the willingness to accept new members should not be held hostage to our internal disputes about the shape of the european institutions.
mr. chairman, please! the project of further enlargement of the union is losing social support today. the last enlargement was understandable, for it marked the definitive break with the artificial, post-war division of europe. the question now is what is the point of further enlargement. this question leads us to another question about the meaning of this great project called the european union. what is and what should be a common europe? is it merely a political community that is supposed to ensure that its members enjoy the stability of democratic governments, respect for human rights and civil liberties, acceptance of the rule of law, and ultimately prosperity through a functioning market economy? or is it a community of values, referring to common roots and cultural heritage, and if so, what roots and what heritage are we talking about? cultural historians point out that modern european identity is the product of many historical traditions. in each of us, in each of the nations of europe, there is something of the greek philosophical tradition, of roman republicanism. we are heirs to renaissance humanism and enlightenment rationalism, but whether we admit it or not, we also have the heritage of christianity. let us not be deceived, even if some people today do not want to see this tradition, it is present in the modern european identity, at least in the fundamental principle of the dignity of the human person, from which we derive the whole package of fundamental rights. since the elmar brok report thus 'subject the proper functioning of the union to a sense of the community of values inherent in a european identity', it must have in mind an identity in which there is a place for the christian heritage. we must not forget the reference to this heritage in the constitutional process.
mr. chairman, please! on the day i say these words exactly 25 years have passed since the introduction of martial law in poland, the attempt to destroy the trade union "solidarity", the freedom and democratic aspirations of polish society. twenty-five years later, i am speaking in a very different world, in the european parliament, in a europe based on the principles of democracy, peace, the rule of law and justice. this personal reference to history clearly shows the good that the european union does for all europeans. the challenge today is to balance further enlargement with the union's absorption capacity. on the one hand, the european union cannot turn its back on the countries seeking membership, and close itself off in the fortress of western prosperity and civilization. on the other hand, it must not allow the community to become watered down, to risk losing its legal and political foundation. the union should respect its obligations towards the countries with a view to membership, while paying particular attention to their progress in building the rule of law, an independent judiciary and respect for fundamental rights. the european union institutions need to define the enhanced neighbourhood policy more precisely. in this area, the european union-black sea community should be established. the european union's relations with russia remain a core issue, covering both trade and energy, and above all issues of human rights, the rule of law and democracy.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating both rapporteurs. and now, to get to the point, i'd like to draw your attention to the following point. the european union has proved to be a very attractive project and has attracted many more countries over the years. that is why i think the debate today on whether the union should be further enlarged is academic, because the maastricht treaty gives the answer by stating clearly in article 49 that any european state which meets the political and economic criteria can be a member of the union. these criteria were established in the union in copenhagen in 1993 and should not be tightened up now. our discussion today is about answering a fundamental question: can the criteria be changed in future enlargements to meet current needs and expectations? i don't think it is. i believe that the principle of keeping your word, keeping your contract, the old roman principle of "pacta servanta sum" applies to all of us. therefore, the so-called absorption capacity cannot suddenly emerge as a criterion blocking access to the union for those countries that have fulfilled the requirements set out in the copenhagen criteria. all subsequent enlargements have strengthened the union and promoted its growth. but these extensions must have been well prepared. i believe that further enlargements will only be well prepared when we have a european constitution.
mr. chairman, please! anyone who is fortunate enough to be a citizen of the european union would be committing a mortal sin if he were to deny that opportunity, that opportunity, to others who are desperate for it. the question of the limits of expansion is an absurd question. you can't ask where the boundaries of freedom are, where the boundaries of democracy are. today's discussion shows that we look at the capacity for enlargement, at its effectiveness, mainly through the lens of the internal situation of the european union. we talk about the need for many deep reforms, and rightly so, because we cannot be weak if we want to succeed. these reforms are necessary, but they must be preceded by a diagnosis and a specifically outlined programme of remediation. i think it might be appropriate to restructure the work of the european commission internally. if we have 27 commissioners today and we are thinking of areas for them to work in, it might be appropriate to appoint two or three commissioners to analyse the situation in the european union and to prepare a reform programme so that we are able to make further enlargements. but we cannot view this ability from an internal perspective. we must remember how the citizens of the countries that want to be with us think about the european union and its possible membership. my personal experience of working in delegations to the south caucasus countries, as well as moldova and ukraine, shows that no ordinary citizen expects a quick reception there, but wants to be sure that the door has not been closed. they can wait 20 or 30 years for that opportunity. and we can't close that door to them. the union's information policy should be clear about what the union is, what its objectives are and what it means to be a member of the european union. we can't let that go.
mr. chairman, please! yesterday we had a very important ceremony in the european parliament, the awarding of the sakharov prize to mr milinkiewicz. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that at the moment when mr milinkiewicz was beginning his speech here in the european parliament, the internal transmission in the european parliament buildings disappeared and the internet transmission was also closed. in belarus, the only way to receive milinkiewicz's speech was via the internet. there was no such possibility, and therefore the citizens of belarus will not receive any information about what happened here yesterday. i ask the speaker to find out why this happened and to inform the house. (applause) thank you very much.
mr president, i wish to inform you and the house that, owing to the agreement with the council on the globalisation fund, all seven amendments tabled by the ppe-de group have been withdrawn, which will make the vote shorter.
mr president, i wish to point out that amendment 9, tabled by the ppe-de group, is not contradictory to my own amendment 6 and therefore i should like to ask you to put both amendments to the vote separately.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the reach regulation on dangerous substances, but i have serious doubts whether this compromise, which has been reached after long and difficult negotiations, will contribute to better protection of human health and the environment on the one hand, and to the competitiveness and innovation of the chemical industry in the european union on the other. i am convinced that dangerous chemicals should be phased out and replaced by less harmful ones, but we must be aware that the new restrictive requirements will have a negative impact on the condition of european industry, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. they bear the greatest adaptation costs and should therefore be considered for support for their adaptation. the rules introduced should also apply to imports from third countries and be the subject of wto discussions.
mr. chairman, please! i thank mr barroso for including the creation of the european institute of technology among the priorities of the union. it is an important institution which, to be effective, should have its seat in several member states. i agree with commissioner figel that poland should be among those countries and the polish government has proposed wrocław. it is a true european city, with all the reasons to be one of the capitals of the european institute of technology. the president of the commission also spoke of the temporary suspension of the negotiations with turkey. i would say, in sports terms, that the turks should be suspended from the jump bar. but it has to be a real height, say, six feet for men, six feet for women -- something that can be overcome, not five feet, because then those high standards are just an excuse for never accepting turkey. i am glad that we have talked today about the accession of croatia first and then the western balkan countries. we are talking about this at a time when a delegation from the parliament of montenegro is in our parliament. it's a sign of the times. mr cohn-bendit spoke of the windows through which migrants are pushed into europe. the problem is, it's not like that, they're pushing each other through doors and windows. enlargement is more necessary than institutional reforms.
- mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to draw attention to a very important issue in eu-russia relations, in particular the problems of energy security and trade relations. on this first point, i would like to point out that russia continues to use the supply of energy resources as a tool of political influence both on the member states of the union and on third countries. russia is also seeking a new deal with the european union and membership in the world trade organization, while violating its basic standards by politically blocking the export of goods to its market. for example, the embargo on polish food exports to the russian market, which has been in place for a year now, is causing hundreds of millions of euros in losses for polish businesses. in both cases, european solidarity is needed more than ever. unfortunately, it has been hard to see for many months, and it is only with the polish veto preventing the opening of negotiations between the union and russia that the principle of solidarity is being invoked more and more often as necessary to solve the most important challenges facing the union. i hope that the german presidency will not only remember this principle but also apply it during its term of office.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to send a strong message to the participants in the european council which begins tomorrow. a message that can be summed up in one word: "solidarity". i demand that europe be solidary with my country and other post-communist countries, solidary in diplomatic relations and solidary in energy matters. to take a firm and unambiguous stand against russia. a position that would reflect the interests of europeans first and foremost, not the russian federation. i am fortunate to be speaking to this house today on the shameful 25th anniversary of the declaration of martial law in poland. i've lived under communism for 40 years, worked underground, and it's no wonder i have no faith in the russians. europe is facing a major test today, the outcome of which will show whether we can count on its support in matters that are so difficult for us.
mr. chairman, please! the forthcoming european council will be the official start of the german presidency. it is well known that the presidency is one of the most anticipated. the list of issues that the union has to deal with is already so long that it will certainly take much longer than six months, and it is therefore with concern that we should receive the information that one of the issues to be discussed at the union summit will be the unfortunate constitutional treaty buried in referendums in france and the netherlands. no one dares to go back to the original version, but there is talk of taking individual chapters out of the project, of offering the public some mini-treatise. instead of concrete answers to the question of how the continent should develop, the peoples of europe may thus once again be given a new dose. the use of verbal balancing cannot hide the fact that france and the netherlands have expressed their strong opposition to the draft constitution. it was a challenge to the idea of a centralised european superstate. the european council summit and, in the future, the german presidency, should send a clear message to the peoples of the member states that it respects their will and the rules laid down in advance.
mr. chairman, please! i think it is very good that we are now nearing the end of this important report. every step towards improving road safety is indeed a step worth taking, and that certainly includes the obligation to register all cases of driving licence revocation or suspension internationally. the aim, of course, is to eliminate so-called driving tourism. however, the primary responsibility here lies with the member states. they should be the first to improve their registration systems for those who have had their driving licences suspended or even disqualified. i hope that this directive will force member states to put their own records in order first. this is of course a cause for celebration, but it is hard not to regret that the single european driving licence will not be in force for a quarter of a century. is it not a strange paradox that extremely complex legal regulations such as reach or the services directive will be implemented almost immediately, while the extremely simple document of the driving licence is undoubtedly not due to be fully implemented until 2033. we may not need the document at all, we may replace it with some other device, perhaps electronic, we may already have european citizenship, but we will still not have a driving licence. i understand the attachment of individual countries to tradition, but it seems to me that at least it has nothing to do with tradition, if anything with what could be called fetishism.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to emphasize, contrary to what i said before, that the single european driving licence we are talking about is perhaps the first european identity document. it's an important document that will allow me, as a european, to feel safe. i want to pay my respects to mr. grosch. he brought together three groups, pragmatists, traditionalists and ultra-traditionalists, hence the extension of time. personally, i'm more comfortable with the idea of a shorter exchange, but it's a compromise. let's honor that compromise. i want to emphasize another important thing, the convergence of the ways of obtaining a driving license, training and examination. it will also mean a tendency to level off differences in behaviour on the road. we'll be traveling more and more with each other. this is a very important aspect of improving road safety. the database is another factor. i understand that there is nothing wrong with getting a driver's license abroad, but it is wrong if you get it by breaking the rules in your own country and losing your license. in fact, i'm very happy to vote for this motion.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank once again mr le rachinel and the committee on transport and tourism for their excellent work, which should enable the proposal to be adopted at first reading. i also thank all the members who have spoken to emphasize how much this obligation is in line with our action in favour of maritime safety. the amendment which you proposed, mr le rachinel, and which was voted unanimously by the committee on transport and tourism, is nonetheless important, technical as it is, because it helps to make the text even clearer. so i can accept it. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank parliament for once again joining this policy of maritime safety, which - as one of the speakers pointed out - is all the more necessary as the development of the highways of the sea and maritime traffic will require ever greater vigilance in the field of safety.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is my duty to thank the rapporteur, mr coelho, for the excellent work he has done on these proposals and also for the speed with which the report and the debate in the plenary this evening have been completed. many of you will be aware that last week the council of ministers of the interior adopted important conclusions. these conclusions have confirmed once again that the schengen ii information system is the top priority of the european union and it is therefore clear that the extension of the commission's mandate on sis ii is indispensable in order to ensure the further development of the schengen ii information system in close cooperation with the member states. you will also know that the council has accepted a proposal by the portuguese government - which i myself, on behalf of the commission, considered to be acceptable - for a temporary solution, which we have called the one-for-all sis. this is a mechanism to ensure that, during the transition to sis ii, the internal borders of the new member states can be removed, respecting the original deadline of the end of 2007. this does not take away from the main objective, which is sis ii, which will ensure greater security for border controls and confirm the result we want to achieve by the end of 2007, which is the removal of internal border controls for the new member states of the union that have applied to join the enlarged schengen agreement. if these countries meet the criteria for the security of land, sea and air borders, as i hope they will, they will be able to complete the political completion of their enlargement by creating an internal european area without border controls, stretching from portugal to lithuania. this will be a great political achievement for europe. the sis ii will remain the main objective, it will ensure a higher level of security, it will provide a greater contribution to the police control and security authorities and a higher level of protection of personal data, which are entered into the system with greater transparency and accountability. for all these reasons, sis ii remains the objective for the european area of security and free movement, and that is why - sharing the rapporteur's views - we are calling for an extension of the commission's mandate so that it can continue to develop the sis ii system. the adoption by the council of ministers of the portuguese proposal will delay the implementation of sis ii. it will not be a very long delay and i can tell the honourable member and the parliament that in february 2007 the commission will present a final proposal for the final date for the development of the sis ii system and that the delay will not exceed six to eight months from the date originally set; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank mr coelho very much for such an excellent report and i would like to say that the extension of the commission's mandate is beyond doubt. sis ii was and should remain a priority. the european parliament has done everything possible to achieve this. we continue to want to support the commission in meeting the deadlines for sis ii as soon as possible. the new system was intended to modernise sis 1 and to extend it to new schengen countries. the first of the objectives is still pending. the second required a political decision and the creation of an alternative system sis 1 for all. it is regrettable that this has to happen, but the union must be credible and fulfil its political commitments towards the new member states. however, i hope that it will be clear how the 'sis 1 for all' project will impact the implementation of the second generation sis in terms of organisation, time and finances. it is also necessary to cooperate closely and keep parliament informed of the progress of the construction of both projects. i also expect the commission to be more assertive, to demand a more demanding attitude from the member states, so as not to look for the culprits later. sis ii is a community project funded from the budget of the european union. this imposes greater responsibilities and obligations on the commission and the member states than were previously the case for the intergovernmental sis 1+. the commission can count on the political support of the european parliament. but we must learn from the mistakes and failures of the past. i also hope that the commission's work will eventually lead to all member states feeling that they are the owners of the sis ii project, without any division between the old and the new schengen member states.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the schengen information system, known as sis, is a database which enables the competent authorities in the member states to cooperate and exchange information with a view to establishing an area without internal border controls. this system makes it much easier for eu citizens to travel and for law enforcement agencies to fight crime. however, the sis has been in operation since 1995, which is a very long time in the context of the extremely rapid development of information technology. that is why, in december 2001, exactly five years ago, the council instructed the commission to set up the second generation of sis ii. it is necessary for the enlargement of the schengen area to include new member states. it is therefore hardly surprising that the public in these countries is nervous about all the information about the delay in the implementation of this system. although the european union's interior ministers recently agreed that eight of the ten new member states would join the schengen area at the turn of 2007 and 2008, joining the sis 1 system for a while, this is a provisional, costly and far from perfect solution. i hope that the commission will learn from the delay in the introduction of sis ii and work more efficiently in the future on projects of such importance to the community as a whole.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. a well-functioning information system is the basis for an appropriate exchange of data between member states. in the field of both police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and border controls and the issuing of visas and residence documents. in addition, such a system should lead to increased safety, while being a robust and flexible tool with the ability to adapt to changing requirements. given that the current system is capable of serving up to eighteen member states, it is essential that the new second generation schengen information system is implemented without delay. so far, a number of problems encountered in the implementation of this ambitious project have caused a significant delay in its implementation. so we must do everything we can to prevent similar situations in the future. especially from the perspective of the new member states, delays in the introduction of sis ii are very dangerous. they delay the full integration of new members into the european union and limit their ability to benefit fully from the schengen acquis and to lift checks at their internal borders with other schengen states. attention should also be paid to the eastern dimension of the european union's foreign policy and to the changes that need to be taken into account as a consequence of the enlargement of the schengen area. today, poland, not belonging to this zone, does not charge visa fees from its eastern neighbours, or the fees are small. as soon as the schengen area is extended, poland's eastern border will become the european union's only eastern border, which will increase visa costs by up to several tens of us dollars, for example for citizens of belarus and ukraine. this situation may be difficult for our eastern neighbours, with whom both poland and the european union have specific political plans to deepen cooperation. this situation could lead to the creation of something like a new berlin wall. the european union cannot allow this.
mr. chairman, please! the implementation of sis ii shows the lack of authority of the administrative organisation entrusted with this matter. meanwhile, at the internal borders of the union, tens of thousands of drivers queue up every day in conditions of worse than bad nomadism. companies are losing thousands of euros. people say what kind of union is this that shoots its own goals into the goal. in strasbourg, for about 80% of the year, beautiful representative buildings are standing idle, with an annual maintenance cost of over 200 million euros, and we are told that there will be delays because there are no buildings for the system. the public simply cannot fathom the impotence of the relevant services. i think it would be good for the union if those responsible for this state of affairs had to spend the night in the tirs. the nights will soon be clear of snow, and the fresh air is said to do no harm, and to increase the speed of thought. finally, i propose that an inquiry be opened into this matter of public interest.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on budgets. - madam president! - i have to go. in the case of the nuclear safety and security assistance regulation, as in the case of other new regulations, the task of the committee on budgets was to bring the provisions of that regulation into line with the provisions of the new interinstitutional agreement which entered into force in may this year. that's the gist of my opinion. this was made all the easier by the fact that the rapporteur, mr seppänen, is a member of the committee on budgets.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. thank you, mrs. morgan, for your report. the green paper is indeed a good start to developing a coherent energy strategy for europe and, more broadly, for the world. this problem is of fundamental importance. it is not just about providing gas, liquid or solid fuels, but about producing electricity, without which the whole world is collapsing. it's not just about heating and air conditioning, it's about protecting the environment, it's about preventing climate change. of course, energy also has a fundamental political dimension, as the well-known example of the gas turbine demonstrates. because of the shortness of time, i will focus on just a few of the problems. greenhouse gas emissions trading is a global problem that requires holistic solutions. the european union should be the initiator of such solutions. wrong actions can lead to the irreversible degradation of the entire earth's atmosphere. energy innovation is both the search for new, renewable and clean energy sources and the radical rationalisation of energy consumption. i estimate that about 25 percent of our energy is wasted through energy-intensive appliances or poor transmission or organizational solutions. i have some hope for the 'intelligent energy' programme under the seventh framework programme. road, rail, air and sea transport require a new logistics approach, where concern for the future replaces the immediate financial interest or convenience. i ask you, how many people came to work alone today? energy security requires the creation of safety nets, or we will experience a kind of domino effect. the examples, even from november of this year, show the weakness of the current systems. the european union must respect the principles of solidarity and consistency with regard to energy suppliers.
mr. chairman, please! i should like to begin by saying that i think all three reports should be supported and i thank the rapporteurs for their work. but first of all, i want to congratulate commissioner piebalgs. after two and a half years in office, we're talking about energy in a very different way than we did before. firstly, it has become clear today that our difficulties in europe are due to the threat to oil and gas supplies, and therefore the initiatives of the commissioner, the european commission and the european council to engage in an intensive dialogue with our partners, the suppliers of oil and gas, are worth supporting. we need a common foreign policy on energy supplies. the routes of energy supply are also important, not just the suppliers themselves. this is incredibly important. secondly, if we are to counter the crisis in gas and oil supplies, we must rely on europe's own energy sources. over the past two and a half years, the european union has clearly made energy saving and renewable energy a priority. we have it in all the documents, including the documents on research and development of new technologies. biofuels are of particular importance here. the necessary legal regulations are still needed. thirdly, the union is continuing the euratom programme, the oldest community programme, which has brought europe a relatively safe and reliable source of atomic energy. we have to keep going. renewable energy alone will not do it, although i support the colleagues who say that renewable energy is necessary. fourth, after years of neglect, europe has finally remembered that almost all countries have their own source of energy - coal. but there can be no going back to the 19th or 20th century way of using coal. it requires completely new technologies to exploit it. i congratulate you, commissioner, and all my colleagues on the fact that we have decided to take such action within the framework of the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, after such a full and very rich debate it is very difficult and challenging to respond to the points that have been raised, because each of the three reports deserved a separate debate. i shall try to emphasise the common rather than the divisive issues. firstly, it is very important that parliament state clearly that there is a challenge to act now. actions to combat climate change should be taken now – there is no time left. security of supply and the competitiveness of the european economy are also urgent matters. we should all like to see affordable prices for our industries and citizens. we should also like to ensure that energy is produced and used in a sustainable way. i think we agree on what should be done to achieve that. we should provide for long-term perspectives for investment; we should provide for the full use of market forces; we should provide for diversification of energy sources and suppliers. we know that we should focus strongly on energy efficiency. we know that there is consensus for a focus on renewable energy, including heating and cooling. we know that we should focus on research and development. it is also important to realise that if we act alone, although it might be good for us, it will not be enough. in order to do this we need the eu’s economies of scale and scope. however, it is also clear that, to achieve that, we must have a common vision and present legislation based on debate that responds not only to this vision but also to the principles of better legislation. we need a general consensus in europe. we need one voice and to take joint action. for those reasons i really believe that, when the commission adopts the package on 10 january 2007, this will open the door, as mr langen said, to real action and real legislative proposals – good proposals not only in the legislative field but also in other areas. i should like to thank mrs morgan, mr langen and mr seppänen for their excellent reports and the whole parliament for this debate. unfortunately i have to finish on a sad note because last night i received the very sad news that my predecessor, mrs loyola de palacio, has died. i wish to pay tribute to her. we will really miss her, because she was devoted not only to her energy remit but also to europe. she had very strong and clear views, which were not always shared by everyone. we need spirits like hers. i really believe that the best tribute we can pay her would be by taking very ambitious action towards creating a european energy policy and not being discouraged by legal hurdles. in this way we will commemorate her in the best possible way. (applause)
i would like to express my support for the report by mr w. langen on the strategy for biomass and biofuels. renewable energy sources, in the context of increasing dependence on the supply of fuels and energy from third countries and the requirements to meet stricter standards for emissions into the environment, are one of the most important elements of energy security. by developing the use of renewable energy sources, the eu can reduce its dependence on fossil fuels and oil imports, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and stimulate economic activity in rural areas by creating new jobs and contributing to the development of agricultural land. unfortunately, in many member states, legal barriers such as the lack of promotional campaigns, the lack of a long-term fiscal policy on excise duty exemptions for bio-components, the lack of access to co-financing for investments related to the production of biodiesel and bioethanol are hampering the development of the biofuels market. therefore, simplification of the procedures promoting the cultivation of agricultural raw materials for the production of bio-components should be considered. an important element in the process of creating favourable conditions for the development of the biofuels market is the further development of support mechanisms, including a system of rebates and excise duty exemptions, which take into account the real costs of producing bio-components and biofuels.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to inform the house that during the trilateral talks on the border fund we have received assurances from the commission and the council that the purchase of firearms from this fund is not eligible. this means that the fund will not be able to finance the purchase of such weapons. i therefore call on parliament to accept the compromise amendment which is indicated in the text as a proposal by the libe committee.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i want to draw attention to a certain controversy that still remains. this is a requirement that parliament has been making since the beginning, to link the entry into force of the return fund to the adoption of the return directive by the end of next year. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the return directive to the member states. i would therefore like to inform the council that it is not excluded that in the event of failure to adopt the return directive, parliament may invoke its budgetary powers and withhold the appropriations for the return fund in the 2008 budget. that's why this is so important. i would like to call on parliament to vote in favour of the return fund, because we have been blackmailed by the council before that the integration fund would be vetoed. i'm asking for a joint vote.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the consequences of the signing of the hague convention on bonds, which was tabled by pervenche berès, wolf klinza, enrique barón crespo, monica frassoni, magda kósáné kovács, louis grech, adeline hazan, alain lipietz, antolína sáncheza presedo, benoît hamon, rosa miguélez ramos, bernard poignant, donata gottardi, catherine trautmann, giovanni pittella, henri weber, inés ayala sender, jean louise cottigny, jean-luc bennahmiasa, marc tarabella, jean-paula gauèsa, arifalette arifalette, marie-claude carlotti, martine roure, marie nicollet zuccetti, jeanine vaughan, désirette gérard, jeanette savary, jeanine béla, jeanine fruy, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine béla, jeanine bélaine béla, jean-claude,
the commission's vice-president mr president, i have listened carefully to the various comments which charlie mccreevy, the commissioner responsible for the internal market, will no doubt read carefully. it should be remembered that the commission proposed signing the hague convention because it considered it to be a good solution and that the convention was intended to clarify the applicable law, nothing more. the commission considers that investors can open an account in the united states today and that us law applies there too. the convention does not change much in this respect, because the freedom to choose the place of the accounts already exists today, even if, for some of you, the convention represents a step forward in this respect. however, mr president, after listening to the various speakers, i would like to say that the commission does not intend to remain deaf to these remarks. this debate shows that the convention is still a matter of serious concern. the commission will therefore remain open to any suggestions on this technically complex matter, which is currently blocked before the council, despite the initial support of all member states for the content of the 2002 hague convention. that's all i could add. the commission will of course be happy to work with the council and parliament to find a solution to the problem of establishing a legal framework, the risks of which we are also aware. if necessary, we will respond in person to mitigate the negative effects of the solution chosen.
i have received the draft resolution. lodged in accordance with rule 108 (5). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 5 p.m. today.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
the next item is the debate on the situation in fiji.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the military coup in fiji requires strong condemnation from the international community. the military takeover and the overthrow of a democratically elected government cannot go unchallenged. the european union must answer the question of what measures should be taken to restore democracy and the rule of law in this country. this is the fourth military coup in fiji in the last 20 years. the military's seizure of power, which controls the government and administration, and the suspension of several articles of the constitution are hampering the country's development. it strikes at the common people and tarnishes the image of fiji as one of the most developed countries in the region, attracting thousands of tourists from all over the world. i would like to call on the commission and the council to do everything possible to overcome the current political crisis and to restore democracy in fiji. the military ouster of the democratically elected government of fiji must be strongly condemned and all efforts must be made to return to the country as soon as possible to the enduring principles of respect for human rights and the rule of law. i also call for consideration of a travel ban to the european union for the representatives of the military that carried out the coup in fiji and a suspension of all aid except humanitarian aid. the international community must send a clear and unambiguous signal that the restoration of political and economic relations with the west is conditional upon the return to power in fiji of a legitimate government, democratically elected.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today, the european parliament condemns the military coup in fiji by the military junta on 5 december this year. this attempt was made against the constitution, the system of the rule of law, and against the emerging democracy in fiji. the last elections in fiji in may of this year were approved by eu observers as fully legitimate. the coup has had a huge impact on the collapse of fiji's economy, especially in the tourism sector. what you can do right now is take immediate action. in particular, to suspend non-humanitarian aid to fiji as set out in article 96 of the cotonou agreement and to impose an entry ban on the territory of the member states of the european union on members of the junta, their families and staff. we must do everything we can to help democracy and civil society to deal with the current military coup and to restore democracy.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. three things are worth noting about the coup in fiji. first, we condemn the coup and that's what we do in our declaration. second, to consider whether the overthrown democratic government was fair to the indigenous minorities who supported the coup. because the fact that it was a democratic government is no guarantee that it was honest, fair and just. thirdly, we should consider whether we should not support the initiative of the polish prime minister, who said that the european union should create its own armed forces, that is, forces which could, in justified cases, intervene in the interests of justice where there is none and where, as in fiji, a coup d'état is being carried out. let's analyze the reasons for this coup before we can form a final opinion. we are rightly condemning the coup and calling for the restoration of democracy.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission shares the view of parliament. the military takeover of the fiji islands is indeed a matter of great concern to us all. commissioner michel strongly condemned this takeover of power by force, which was also condemned by the finnish presidency and the european union on 11 december 2006. the takeover was condemned by fiji's acp partners in the pacific as well as australia, new zealand and the united states. these convictions are more than words. these have resulted in international isolation, with serious consequences for fiji. they have already been suspended from the commonwealth and can no longer hold the presidency of the pacific forum. the military takeover is a clear violation of article 9 of the cotonou agreement and its essential elements concerning human rights, democracy and the rule of law. this implies consultations under article 96 of the cotonou agreement, which may, if necessary, lead to appropriate measures to remedy the situation, including, as a last resort, the suspension of development cooperation. the european union wishes to continue dialogue with the legitimate authorities of fiji in order to reach a consensus and to promote the return of fiji to democratic governance within the framework of the constitution. the commission is preparing a proposal to open article 96 consultations. the military takeover is damaging to the economy of fiji. the most important economic sector in these islands is tourism, which will suffer now, because of instability and security conditions. the interest rate has been raised, growth rates will suffer, the investment climate will deteriorate. the continuation of our cooperation is now at stake because of the seriousness of what has happened in fiji. much will depend on how the military behaves in the coming days and even weeks, and in particular on how quickly it facilitates the return to democracy and the rule of law. i thank the members who have given their testimony, which i believe is in line with this and shows the unity of all in the european community.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 5 p.m. today.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the involvement of un forces in the sexual abuse in liberia and haiti.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in the last century, the most worrying were the aggressive powers, such as hitler's germany and the soviet union. but the end of the 20th century did not end these problems. in the 21st century, we continue to see rape and inhuman, degrading treatment. the worst thing is when organizations that are supposed to help the oppressed and the hurt send people on peace missions who instead of bringing help bring back pain and humiliation. this is what we have in liberia and haiti. instead of standing guard for security, peace and respect for the law, peacekeepers continue the shameful practice of sexual exploitation of women and young girls. there's child rape, forced prostitution. all acts of sexual exploitation and other forms of criminal acts constituting a blatant denial and betrayal of the peace and humanitarian mission by un personnel in violation of human rights must be strongly condemned. these people have suffered enough. they were desperate for help, and what did they get? history repeated, only now from the people they expected to help.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's debate on human rights violations is particularly disturbing and appalling, as it concerns human trafficking, the sexual exploitation of children from liberia, haiti, congo and other countries of the "mainland" by humanitarian workers, who are supposed to bring aid and care to the victims of hunger and armed conflict, and to provide security, protection and food. the exploitation, sexual abuse, forced prostitution, and trafficking of starving children show the degradation and moral bottomlessness to which man is capable when driven by impulses that do not conform to moral principles. even if a few hundred people are guilty of such hurtful and shocking acts, suspicion and loss of trust falls on the rest, on thousands of dedicated mission workers, and causes a loss of hope. we must therefore not remain silent, and demand that the guilty be punished and that the personnel of humanitarian missions be carefully selected and controlled.
mr. chairman, please! i want to emphasize three points. first, the shock and horror that comes with reports of the involvement of un forces in sexual abuse in liberia and haiti. it is clear that these issues must be fully clarified by the un structures and that those guilty of such crimes must be punished in the judicial processes. the second point is what has already been said today by mr miguel ángel martínez, member of the european parliament, concerning the status of un peacekeeping forces in the modern world and the importance which the european union attaches to these units. the third issue is the need for special training of un peacekeepers in the framework of human rights, including in the relevant gender relations. i also want to emphasise the appropriate participation of women in un peacekeeping missions. in the future, these could be actions that will ensure that this type of crime never happens again.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it has been a year and a half since parliament last passed a resolution condemning human rights abuses in burma. unfortunately, that situation has not changed. the military regime that has ruled the country for 40 years has openly ignored the recommendations of the international community. political opponents are imprisoned and tortured. forced labor and the conscription of children into the military are commonplace. he's worried about the complete breakdown of the education and health systems. deaths from malaria, tuberculosis, and aids are increasing at an alarming rate. the regime blocks the activities of ngos. the international red cross headquarters has been closed. the commission is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, which will be used to support the development of the union's information and communication policy. without concrete financial support from us, the organization's efforts to promote democracy and human rights in burma will be doomed to failure. it now appears that only economic sanctions, backed by a relevant un security council resolution, will be able to force the regime in burma to make democratic changes.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to express my appreciation to the finnish presidency. i am thinking first of all of the very difficult task which is linked to the strategic partnership with russia. i think that the finnish presidency has achieved a great deal in this area - a calm but firm move towards making russia a strategic economic partner, while at the same time influencing the russian authorities towards respect for human rights and democracy in that country. the second achievement is the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union. finally, i would also like to congratulate you on the ratification of the european constitution. i believe that the finnish presidency can be an example of how to work at european level towards deeper integration and at the same time an example of linking deeper integration with the opening up of the european union to the outside world.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to say thank you so much for this debate. i just wanted to say that we have reached a beautiful compromise and consensus in this house today. this is very commendable, especially if such an atmosphere is to be found in some national parliaments. i have one doubt, one observation: in the speeches of some leaders there has been a kind of intellectual blackmail that i do not like. some say institutional reform is a necessary condition for further enlargement. let us not close the door to the european union to countries like croatia and macedonia, which are european countries, and let them not have to wait for us to reform the institutions, or not. i firmly believe that the issue of institutional reform, which divides european public opinion, cannot be used as an excuse to close the door to the european union to countries that have already done a lot on their way to accession.
mr. chairman, please! almost everything has been said. it was a good presidency, and we thank you for it. it demonstrated that despite the impasse in the constitutional process, the union is moving forward europe on the move. and the proof is that schengen for all has been adopted. this is incredibly important for the new member states. the presidency has also demonstrated, perhaps unwillingly and perhaps unintentionally, the importance of solidarity in external relations and of leaving no member state to its own devices. a special thanks goes to president barroso. if unanimity is necessary to ensure that principle of solidarity, it should remain so until solidarity becomes automatic and prevails over national and economic egos. one more sentence: namely, i am displeased with the reduction of eastern policy to the northern and russian dimensions and the omission of the issues of ukraine and belarus.
mr. chairman, please! in foreign policy, the union shows its weakness when it does not have a single position. the presidencies, short in duration, pass like ephemeris, but the common idea of well-defined objectives must be timeless, at least long-term, because in the end the union is not to be a union of governments but of ordinary people, and we must rise to this challenge, which i wish for all the actors in the european institutions in 2007. señor presidente, as you are finishing your term, i would like to thank you for your visit to poland. i wish such visits to become a tradition in this chamber. the countries of central and western europe will play a more important role in the european union than the member states of the europe of the fifteen have until now.
mr. chairman, please! in the debate on the finnish presidency programme on 5 july 2006, i expressed the hope that the finns, who have traditionally had good relations with russia, would make efforts to resolve two problems of importance to the union as a whole. firstly, russia must stop its energy blackmail of some members of the european union and secondly, restrictions on access to the russian market for food products must be lifted. in december 2006, i have to say that there is no measurable progress on either of these issues. the situation of access to the russian food market is particularly alarming. it took a polish veto on the eu-russia agreement for this problem to become common to all member states. i hope that the german presidency will quickly resolve these two problems.
mr. chairman, please! i agree that the last six months have been particularly difficult for the union's relations with russia, and here everything has been said. i can only join president saryush-wolski in thanking president borrell, commission president barroso and the prime minister for their attitude which makes the union more and more solidary. the practical successes of this presidency, which have not been mentioned before, include the european institute of technology project adopted in lahti. i believe that this is the right response to the global competition for the best minds today, and i would like to congratulate president barroso again on his consistency in making this project a reality. but let me also say, in conclusion, that i am very pleased with the words of the finnish prime minister, who said that what is happening in belarus is a disgrace to europe. yes, this regime must end, and the european union, increasingly united internally, will be more effective in its external relations and will be able to change this situation.
mr. chairman, please! mr. prime minister, six months ago, you defined two main priorities for your presidency. they were energy and an innovative europe. energy is a very difficult area to progress on, we know that very well and that will be our focus for the next six months. i wanted to congratulate the prime minister on the fact that we have completed the seventh framework programme, that we are putting it into practice. i also wanted to congratulate president barroso. the cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission on innovation has generally been exemplary. we can get along on many things that are important for europe. there is no european victory, no civilization that can make a difference on a global scale without an innovative economy. i therefore congratulate the commission and the european council once again on their success in this field.
